{"id": "23300102", "title": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome]. Recently, several attempts have been made to characterize the clinical symptoms and brain atrophy patterns in pathology-proven corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS) with known histopathology. CBS is a term which was proposed to characterize the constellation of clinical features initially considered the defining characteristics of CBD. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analyses of MRI revealed that frontal lobe involvement is characteristic of CBD. The pathologic substrates for clinical CBS were found to be CBD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) with TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP) inclusions. CBS was associated with perirolandic atrophy, irrespective of underlying pathology. In CBS due to FTLD, atrophy extended into the prefrontal cortex, striatum, and brainstem, whereas in CBS due to AD, atrophy extended into the temporoparietal cortex and precuneus. No functional imaging studies in pathology-proven CBD or CBS with known histopathology have yet been published. PET and SPECT studies have demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow in the fronto-parietal cortex, particularly contralateral to the dominant symptoms in CBS patients. A PET study showed decreased acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the fronto-parietal cortex, as well as a correlation between cortical AChE activity and mini-mental state examination score in CBS patients, suggesting that cholinergic stimulant therapy may be effective for dementia in CBS. Additionally, [18F] 6-fluorodopa PET and dopamine transporter SPECT studies have demonstrated nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction in CBS. Antemortem prediction of CBD will remain challenging until sensitive, specific biomarkers are identified."}
{"id": "23255822", "title": "Differential effect of APOE genotype on amyloid load and glucose metabolism in AD dementia.", "content": "Differential effect of APOE genotype on amyloid load and glucose metabolism in AD dementia. To examine the relationships between apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 dose and in vivo distributions of both fibrillary amyloid burden and glucose metabolism in the same Alzheimer disease dementia patients, selected for abnormal amyloid imaging. Twenty-two APOE \u03b54 negative, 40 heterozygous, and 22 homozygous Alzheimer disease dementia patients underwent dynamic (90 minutes) [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) and static [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET scans. Parametric nondisplaceable binding potential images of [(11)C]PIB and standardized uptake value ratio images of [(18)F]FDG were generated using cerebellar gray matter as reference tissue. Frontal, parietal, temporal, posterior cingulate, and occipital cortices were selected as regions of interest. Multivariate general linear models with adjustment for age, sex, and Mini-Mental State Examination showed main effects of APOE \u03b54 dose on distributions of both [(11)C]PIB (p for trend <0.05) and [(18)F]FDG (p for trend <0.01). More specifically, a univariate general linear model of individual regions showed increased [(11)C]PIB binding in frontal cortex of APOE \u03b54 noncarriers compared with APOE \u03b54 carriers (p < 0.05). In contrast, APOE \u03b54 carriers had reduced [(18)F]FDG uptake in occipital cortex (p < 0.05) and a borderline significant effect in posterior cingulate (p = 0.07) in a dose-dependent manner. We found a reversed APOE \u03b54 dose effect for amyloid deposition in the frontal lobe, whereas APOE \u03b54 carriership was associated with more profound metabolic impairment in posterior parts of the cortex. These findings suggest that APOE genotype has a differential effect on the distribution of amyloid plaques and glucose metabolism. This may have important implications for emerging therapies that aim to directly intervene in the disease process."}
{"id": "23243071", "title": "Amyloid is linked to cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia.", "content": "Amyloid is linked to cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia. To determine whether amyloid burden, as indexed by Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) retention, identifies patients with Parkinson disease with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) compared to those with normal cognition (PD-nl). A related aim is to determine whether amyloid burden predicts cognitive decline in a cohort of subjects with PD without dementia. In this prospective cohort study, we examined 46 subjects with PD without dementia, of whom 35 had normal cognition and 11 met criteria for PD-MCI at study baseline. All subjects underwent standardized neurologic and neuropsychological examinations and PiB PET at baseline, and clinical examinations were conducted annually for up to 5 years. At baseline, precuneus PiB retention did not distinguish PD-MCI from PD-nl. Subjects with PD-MCI declined more rapidly than PD-nl subjects on cognitive tests of memory, executive function, and activation retrieval. Of the 35 PD-nl subjects, 8 progressed to PD-MCI and 1 to dementia; of the 11 PD-MCI subjects, 5 converted to dementia. Both higher PiB retention and a diagnosis of PD-MCI predicted a greater hazard of conversion to a more severe diagnosis. Baseline PiB retention predicted worsening in executive function over time. The APOE \u03b54 allele also related to worsening in executive function, as well as visuospatial function, activation retrieval, and performance on the Mini-Mental State Examination. In contrast to its relation to cognitive decline, PiB retention did not affect progression of motor impairment. At baseline measurements, amyloid burden does not distinguish between cognitively impaired and unimpaired subjects with PD without dementia, but our data suggest that amyloid contributes to cognitive, but not motor, decline over time."}
{"id": "23242068", "title": "18F-FDG PET/CT findings in a patient with isolated intracranial Rosai-Dorfman disease.", "content": "18F-FDG PET/CT findings in a patient with isolated intracranial Rosai-Dorfman disease. Rosai-Dorman disease (RDD) or sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy is a rare histiocytic disorder first described in 1969. RDD involving the central nervous system is considered to be rare, with fewer than 120 cases reported in the literature. We present a 51-year-old woman with a history of panhypopituitarism, episodic memory disturbance, and a hypothalamic tumor. Stereotaxic hypothalamic lesion biopsy showed histiocytic proliferation positive for S100 protein and CD68, but negative for CD1a, typical for RDD. \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET/CT 4 months later demonstrated increased hypothalamic metabolic activity."}
{"id": "23182881", "title": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in prodromal Alzheimer's disease differs by regional intensity normalization.", "content": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in prodromal Alzheimer's disease differs by regional intensity normalization. Using [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) patients with Alzheimer's disease show impairment of cerebral glucose metabolism in bilateral frontotemporoparietal association cortices and posterior cingulate cortex whereas in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) results are heterogeneous. For the first time, the present study examined alterations of the cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with prodromal AD as compared to patients with AD dementia and healthy controls depending on intensity normalization. 15 patients with AD (69.8\u00b18.5 years) and 28 with prodromal AD (67.4\u00b19.1 years) as well as 10 healthy controls (58.8\u00b15.9 years) underwent FDG PET under resting conditions. By statistical parametric mapping 8, analyses were performed using (a) cerebellar cortex or (b) whole brain as reference region for intensity normalization. Patients with AD dementia showed reductions in bilateral temporoparietal regions and posterior cingulate gyrus as compared to controls. By contrast, patients with prodromal AD had only reductions in the left posterior temporal lobe and left angular gyrus as compared with controls. Cerebellar normalization was superior in differentiating patients with prodromal AD or AD dementia from healthy controls, but global normalization provided slightly better contrasts for the differentiation between patients with prodromal AD and AD dementia in AD-typical regions. Unexpected hypermetabolism in patients was only revealed using global normalization and has to be regarded as an artifact of intensity normalization to a reference region affected by the disease."}
{"id": "23177341", "title": "[Variations of the hepatic SUV in relation to the body mass index in whole body PET-CT studies].", "content": "[Variations of the hepatic SUV in relation to the body mass index in whole body PET-CT studies]. To evaluate SUV changes in the liver in relation to body mass index (BMI) of patients who undergo whole body PET-CT scans. A retrospective study was performed. The variables studied were injected dose of (18F)FDG (mCi), age (years), blood glucose level (mg/dL), height (cm) and weight (kg). BMI was calculated and the SUV mean value was expressed according to gender and BMI. A linear regression analysis was applied to identify the independent variables that best predict the SUV value. Six hundred and three patients were studied (305 women, 298 men; mean age: 54.9\u00b115.2 years old). Mean SUV measurement was significantly higher in males than females and increased significantly both in male and female patients who were overweight and even more in obese patients. The independent variables that best predicted the SUV value were gender, age, and BMI. In those patients having similar characteristics related to the analyzed variables, the SUV value increased by 0.002 for each increase in one year, and by 0.066 per unit increase in the BMI value. Hepatic uptake of (18F)FDG increases according to the patient's BMI. The independent variables that best predict the hepatic SUV value are age and sex of patients. Our findings show that the practice of using the physiological hepatic metabolic activity level as a reference regarding questionable deposits elsewhere in the abdomen and pelvis is not useful, at least in male patients with overweightness and obesity."}
{"id": "23047371", "title": "Combination of 18F-FDG PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers as a better predictor of the progression to Alzheimer's disease in mild cognitive impairment patients.", "content": "Combination of 18F-FDG PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers as a better predictor of the progression to Alzheimer's disease in mild cognitive impairment patients. The biomarker-based new diagnostic criteria have been proposed for Alzheimer's disease (AD) spectrum. However, any biomarker alone has not been known to have satisfactory AD predictability. We explored the best combination model with baseline demography, neuropsychology, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype evaluation to predict progression to AD in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients. A longitudinal clinical follow-up (mean, 44 months; range, 1.6-161.7 months) of MCI patients was done. Among 83 MCI patients, 26 progressed to AD (MCI-AD) and 51 did not deteriorate (MCI-Stable). We applied that univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses, and multistep model selection for AD predictors including biomarkers. In univariate logistic analysis, we selected age, Rey Auditory Verbal Retention Test, parietal glucose metabolic rate, CSF total tau, and presence or not of at least one APOE \u03b54 allele as predictors. Through multivariate stepwise logistic analysis and model selection, we found the combination of parietal glucose metabolic rate and total tau representing the best model for AD prediction. In conclusion, our findings highlight that the combination of regional glucose metabolic assessment by PET and CSF biomarkers evaluation can significantly improve AD predictive diagnostic accuracy of each respective method."}
{"id": "23021038", "title": "Preclinical sporadic Alzheimer's disease: target for personalized diagnosis and preventive intervention.", "content": "Preclinical sporadic Alzheimer's disease: target for personalized diagnosis and preventive intervention. The most opportune time for preventive intervention in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (spAD) is early in its preclinical stage (pcAD), when the odds of preventing or minimizing later disabling neurodegeneration are most favorable. The efficacy of promising preventive interventions should be assessed in patients in the earliest discernible phase of pcAD. This will require application of personalized medicine techniques, with use of suitable biomarkers to detect pcAD in individuals believed to be spAD-prone. This review focuses on the genetic biomarker, apolipoprotein E (apoE) \u03b54, and on certain neuroimaging biomarkers, such as structural MRI (sMRI), fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and PET-amyloid tracers capable of delineating the extent and distribution of amyloid-beta (A\u03b2) deposits in the brain, that can be useful in identifying cognitively normal people who are at enhanced risk of developing spAD. Many years before AD symptoms appear, such neuroimaging procedures can disclose signature abnormalities of brain structure, function, and amyloid levels in cognitively normal apoE \u03b54 allele carriers and/or individuals with a family history of spAD. Although no effective treatment for spAD is yet available, there is evidence that, by taking a proactive personalized-medicine approach, the practicing physician may be able to reduce risk in AD-prone patients by attending to such modifiable AD risk factors as hypertension, obesity, type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, hypercholesterolemia, sedentary lifestyle, and current cigarette smoking. Young patients who are \u03b54 positive should be advised to avoid participation in contact sports or other activities that expose them to risk of traumatic brain injury."}
{"id": "22836369", "title": "Acute cocaine induced deficits in cognitive performance in rhesus macaque monkeys treated with baclofen.", "content": "Acute cocaine induced deficits in cognitive performance in rhesus macaque monkeys treated with baclofen. Acute and/or chronic exposure to cocaine can affect cognitive performance, which may influence rate of recovery during treatment. Effects of the GABA-B receptor agonist baclofen were assessed for potency to reverse the negative influence of acute, pre-session, intravenous (IV) injection of cocaine on cognitive performance in Macaca mulatta nonhuman primates. Animals were trained to perform a modified delayed match to sample (DMS) task incorporating two types of trials with varying degrees of cognitive load that had different decision requirements in order to correctly utilize information retained over the delay interval. The effects of cocaine (0.2, 0.4, and 0.6 mg/kg, IV) alone and in combination with baclofen (0.29 and 0.40 mg/kg, IV) were examined with respect to sustained performance levels. Brain metabolic activity during performance of the task was assessed using PET imaged uptake of [(18)\u2009F]-fluorodeoxyglucose. Acute cocaine injections produced a dose-dependent decline in DMS performance selective for trials of high cognitive load. The GABA-receptor agonist baclofen, co-administered with cocaine, reversed task performance back to nondrug (saline IV) control levels. Simultaneous assessment of PET-imaged brain metabolic activity in prefrontal cortex (PFC) showed alterations by cocaine compared to PFC metabolic activation in nondrug (saline, IV) control DMS sessions, but like performance, PFC activation was returned to control levels by baclofen (0.40 mg/kg, IV) injected with cocaine. The results show that baclofen, administered at a relatively high dose, reversed the cognitive deficits produced by acute cocaine intoxication that may have implications for use in chronic drug exposure."}
{"id": "22713404", "title": "Nonfluent/agrammatic PPA with in-vivo cortical amyloidosis and Pick's disease pathology.", "content": "Nonfluent/agrammatic PPA with in-vivo cortical amyloidosis and Pick's disease pathology. The role of biomarkers in predicting pathological findings in the frontotemporal dementia (FTD) clinical spectrum disorders is still being explored. We present comprehensive, prospective longitudinal data for a 66 year old, right-handed female who met current criteria for the nonfluent/agrammatic variant of primary progressive aphasia (nfvPPA). She first presented with a 3-year history of progressive speech and language impairment mainly characterized by severe apraxia of speech. Neuropsychological and general motor functions remained relatively spared throughout the clinical course. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) showed selective cortical atrophy of the left posterior inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and underlying insula that worsened over time, extending along the left premotor strip. Five years after her first evaluation, she developed mild memory impairment and underwent PET-FDG and PiB scans that showed left frontal hypometabolism and cortical amyloidosis. Three years later (11 years from first symptom), post-mortem histopathological evaluation revealed Pick's disease, with severe degeneration of left IFG, mid-insula, and precentral gyrus. Alzheimer's disease (AD) (CERAD frequent/Braak Stage V) was also detected. This patient demonstrates that biomarkers indicating brain amyloidosis should not be considered conclusive evidence that AD pathology accounts for a typical FTD clinical/anatomical syndrome."}
{"id": "22713376", "title": "Degenerative jargon aphasia: unusual progression of logopenic/phonological progressive aphasia?", "content": "Degenerative jargon aphasia: unusual progression of logopenic/phonological progressive aphasia? Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) corresponds to the gradual degeneration of language which can occur as nonfluent/agrammatic PPA, semantic variant PPA or logopenic variant PPA. We describe the clinical evolution of a patient with PPA presenting jargon aphasia as a late feature. At the onset of the disease (ten years ago) the patient showed anomia and executive deficits, followed later on by phonemic paraphasias and neologisms, deficits in verbal short-term memory, naming, verbal and semantic fluency. At recent follow-up the patient developed an unintelligible jargon with both semantic and neologistic errors, as well as with severe deficit of comprehension which precluded any further neuropsychological assessment. Compared to healthy controls, FDG-PET showed a hypometabolism in the left angular and middle temporal gyri, precuneus, caudate, posterior cingulate, middle frontal gyrus, and bilaterally in the superior temporal and inferior frontal gyri. The clinical and neuroimaging profile seems to support the hypothesis that the patient developed a late feature of logopenic variant PPA characterized by jargonaphasia and associated with superior temporal and parietal dysfunction."}
{"id": "22592018", "title": "Verbal learning in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: fine-grained acquisition and short-delay consolidation performance and neural correlates.", "content": "Verbal learning in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: fine-grained acquisition and short-delay consolidation performance and neural correlates. The aim of this study was to examine correlations between acquisition and short-delay consolidation and brain metabolism at rest measured by fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in 44 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 16 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who progressed to dementia (MCI-AD), 15 MCI patients who remained stable (MCI-S, 4-8 years of follow-up), and 20 healthy older participants. Acquisition and short-delay consolidation were calculated respectively as mean gained (MG) and lost (ML) access to items of the California Verbal Learning Task. MG performance suggests that acquisition is impaired in AD patients even at predementia stage (MCI-AD). ML performance suggests that short-delay consolidation is deficient only in confirmed AD patients. Variations in acquisition performance in control participants are related to metabolic activity in the anterior parietal cortex, an area supporting task-positive attentional processes. In contrast, the acquisition deficit is related to decreased activity in the lateral temporal cortex, an area supporting semantic processes, in patients at an early stage of AD and is related to metabolic activity in the hippocampus, an area supporting associative processes, in confirmed AD patients."}
{"id": "22503001", "title": "Amyloid and metabolic positron emission tomography imaging of cognitively normal adults with Alzheimer's parents.", "content": "Amyloid and metabolic positron emission tomography imaging of cognitively normal adults with Alzheimer's parents. This study examines the relationship between fibrillar beta-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition and reduced glucose metabolism, a proxy for neuronal dysfunction, in cognitively normal (NL) individuals with a parent affected by late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Forty-seven 40-80-year-old NL received positron emission tomography (PET) with (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG). These included 19 NL with a maternal history (MH), 12 NL with a paternal history (PH), and 16 NL with negative family history of AD (NH). Automated regions of interest, statistical parametric mapping, voxel-wise intermodality correlations, and logistic regressions were used to examine cerebral-to-cerebellar PiB and FDG standardized uptake value ratios across groups. The MH group showed higher PiB retention and lower metabolism in AD regions compared with NH and PH, which were negatively correlated in posterior cingulate, frontal, and parieto-temporal regions (Pearson r \u2264 -0.57, p \u2264 0.05). No correlations were observed in NH and PH. The combination of A\u03b2 deposition and metabolism yielded accuracy \u2265 69% for MH vs. NH and \u2265 71% for MH vs. PH, with relative risk = 1.9-5.1 (p values < 0.005). NL individuals with AD-affected mothers show co-occurring A\u03b2 increases and hypometabolism in AD-vulnerable regions, suggesting an increased risk for AD."}
{"id": "20451868", "title": "The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative: progress report and future plans.", "content": "The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative: progress report and future plans. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) beginning in October 2004, is a 6-year research project that studies changes of cognition, function, brain structure and function, and biomarkers in elderly controls, subjects with mild cognitive impairment, and subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A major goal is to determine and validate MRI, PET images, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/blood biomarkers as predictors and outcomes for use in clinical trials of AD treatments. Structural MRI, FDG PET, C-11 Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) PET, CSF measurements of amyloid beta (Abeta) and species of tau, with clinical/cognitive measurements were performed on elderly controls, subjects with mild cognitive impairment, and subjects with AD. Structural MRI shows high rates of brain atrophy, and has high statistical power for determining treatment effects. FDG PET, C-11 Pittsburgh compound B PET, and CSF measurements of Abeta and tau were significant predictors of cognitive decline and brain atrophy. All data are available at UCLA/LONI/ADNI, without embargo. ADNI-like projects started in Australia, Europe, Japan, and Korea. ADNI provides significant new information concerning the progression of AD."}
{"id": "21236349", "title": "Multimodal classification of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Multimodal classification of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. Effective and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as its prodromal stage (i.e., mild cognitive impairment (MCI)), has attracted more and more attention recently. So far, multiple biomarkers have been shown to be sensitive to the diagnosis of AD and MCI, i.e., structural MR imaging (MRI) for brain atrophy measurement, functional imaging (e.g., FDG-PET) for hypometabolism quantification, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for quantification of specific proteins. However, most existing research focuses on only a single modality of biomarkers for diagnosis of AD and MCI, although recent studies have shown that different biomarkers may provide complementary information for the diagnosis of AD and MCI. In this paper, we propose to combine three modalities of biomarkers, i.e., MRI, FDG-PET, and CSF biomarkers, to discriminate between AD (or MCI) and healthy controls, using a kernel combination method. Specifically, ADNI baseline MRI, FDG-PET, and CSF data from 51AD patients, 99 MCI patients (including 43 MCI converters who had converted to AD within 18 months and 56 MCI non-converters who had not converted to AD within 18 months), and 52 healthy controls are used for development and validation of our proposed multimodal classification method. In particular, for each MR or FDG-PET image, 93 volumetric features are extracted from the 93 regions of interest (ROIs), automatically labeled by an atlas warping algorithm. For CSF biomarkers, their original values are directly used as features. Then, a linear support vector machine (SVM) is adopted to evaluate the classification accuracy, using a 10-fold cross-validation. As a result, for classifying AD from healthy controls, we achieve a classification accuracy of 93.2% (with a sensitivity of 93% and a specificity of 93.3%) when combining all three modalities of biomarkers, and only 86.5% when using even the best individual modality of biomarkers. Similarly, for classifying MCI from healthy controls, we achieve a classification accuracy of 76.4% (with a sensitivity of 81.8% and a specificity of 66%) for our combined method, and only 72% even using the best individual modality of biomarkers. Further analysis on MCI sensitivity of our combined method indicates that 91.5% of MCI converters and 73.4% of MCI non-converters are correctly classified. Moreover, we also evaluate the classification performance when employing a feature selection method to select the most discriminative MR and FDG-PET features. Again, our combined method shows considerably better performance, compared to the case of using an individual modality of biomarkers."}
{"id": "20451870", "title": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative positron emission tomography core.", "content": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative positron emission tomography core. This is a progress report of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) positron emission tomography (PET) Core. The Core has supervised the acquisition, quality control, and analysis of longitudinal [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) data in approximately half of the ADNI cohort. In an \"add on\" study, approximately 100 subjects also underwent scanning with [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B PET for amyloid imaging. The Core developed quality control procedures and standardized image acquisition by developing an imaging protocol that has been widely adopted in academic and pharmaceutical industry studies. Data processing provides users with scans that have identical orientation and resolution characteristics despite acquisition on multiple scanner models. The Core labs have used many different approaches to characterize differences between subject groups (Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, controls), to examine longitudinal change over time in glucose metabolism and amyloid deposition, and to assess the use of FDG-PET as a potential outcome measure in clinical trials. ADNI data indicate that FDG-PET increases statistical power over traditional cognitive measures, might aid subject selection, and could substantially reduce the sample size in a clinical trial. Pittsburgh compound B PET data showed expected group differences, and identified subjects with significant annual increases in amyloid load across the subject groups. The next activities of the PET core in ADNI will entail developing standardized protocols for amyloid imaging using the [(18)F]-labeled amyloid imaging agent AV45, which can be delivered to virtually all ADNI sites. ADNI has demonstrated the feasibility and utility of multicenter PET studies and is helping to clarify the role of biomarkers in the study of aging and dementia."}
{"id": "22784036", "title": "Clinical and biomarker changes in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical and biomarker changes in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease. The order and magnitude of pathologic processes in Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, partly because the disease develops over many years. Autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease has a predictable age at onset and provides an opportunity to determine the sequence and magnitude of pathologic changes that culminate in symptomatic disease. In this prospective, longitudinal study, we analyzed data from 128 participants who underwent baseline clinical and cognitive assessments, brain imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood tests. We used the participant's age at baseline assessment and the parent's age at the onset of symptoms of Alzheimer's disease to calculate the estimated years from expected symptom onset (age of the participant minus parent's age at symptom onset). We conducted cross-sectional analyses of baseline data in relation to estimated years from expected symptom onset in order to determine the relative order and magnitude of pathophysiological changes. Concentrations of amyloid-beta (A\u03b2)(42) in the CSF appeared to decline 25 years before expected symptom onset. A\u03b2 deposition, as measured by positron-emission tomography with the use of Pittsburgh compound B, was detected 15 years before expected symptom onset. Increased concentrations of tau protein in the CSF and an increase in brain atrophy were detected 15 years before expected symptom onset. Cerebral hypometabolism and impaired episodic memory were observed 10 years before expected symptom onset. Global cognitive impairment, as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Clinical Dementia Rating scale, was detected 5 years before expected symptom onset, and patients met diagnostic criteria for dementia at an average of 3 years after expected symptom onset. We found that autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease was associated with a series of pathophysiological changes over decades in CSF biochemical markers of Alzheimer's disease, brain amyloid deposition, and brain metabolism as well as progressive cognitive impairment. Our results require confirmation with the use of longitudinal data and may not apply to patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. (Funded by the National Institute on Aging and others; DIAN ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00869817.)."}
{"id": "20451875", "title": "Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative biomarkers as quantitative phenotypes: Genetics core aims, progress, and plans.", "content": "Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative biomarkers as quantitative phenotypes: Genetics core aims, progress, and plans. The role of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative Genetics Core is to facilitate the investigation of genetic influences on disease onset and trajectory as reflected in structural, functional, and molecular imaging changes; fluid biomarkers; and cognitive status. Major goals include (1) blood sample processing, genotyping, and dissemination, (2) genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of longitudinal phenotypic data, and (3) providing a central resource, point of contact and planning group for genetics within the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Genome-wide array data have been publicly released and updated, and several neuroimaging GWAS have recently been reported examining baseline magnetic resonance imaging measures as quantitative phenotypes. Other preliminary investigations include copy number variation in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease and GWAS of baseline cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and longitudinal changes on magnetic resonance imaging. Blood collection for RNA studies is a new direction. Genetic studies of longitudinal phenotypes hold promise for elucidating disease mechanisms and risk, development of therapeutic strategies, and refining selection criteria for clinical trials."}
{"id": "21911655", "title": "Intranasal insulin therapy for Alzheimer disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: a pilot clinical trial.", "content": "Intranasal insulin therapy for Alzheimer disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: a pilot clinical trial. To examine the effects of intranasal insulin administration on cognition, function, cerebral glucose metabolism, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in adults with amnestic mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer disease (AD). Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Clinical research unit of a Veterans Affairs medical center. The intent-to-treat sample consisted of 104 adults with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (n\u00a0=\u00a064) or mild to moderate AD (n\u00a0=\u00a040). Intervention\u00a0 Participants received placebo (n\u00a0=\u00a030), 20 IU of insulin (n\u00a0=\u00a036), or 40 IU of insulin (n\u00a0=\u00a038) for 4 months, administered with a nasal drug delivery device (Kurve Technology, Bothell, Washington). Primary measures consisted of delayed story recall score and the Dementia Severity Rating Scale score, and secondary measures included the Alzheimer Disease's Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) score and the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-activities of daily living (ADCS-ADL) scale. A subset of participants underwent lumbar puncture (n\u00a0=\u00a023) and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 (n\u00a0=\u00a040) before and after treatment. Outcome measures were analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of covariance. Treatment with 20 IU of insulin improved delayed memory (P\u00a0<\u00a0.05), and both doses of insulin (20 and 40 IU) preserved caregiver-rated functional ability (P\u00a0<\u00a0.01). Both insulin doses also preserved general cognition as assessed by the ADAS-cog score for younger participants and functional abilities as assessed by the ADCS-ADL scale for adults with AD (P\u00a0<\u00a0.05). Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers did not change for insulin-treated participants as a group, but, in exploratory analyses, changes in memory and function were associated with changes in the A\u03b242 level and in the tau protein-to-A\u03b242 ratio in cerebrospinal fluid. Placebo-assigned participants showed decreased fludeoxyglucose F 18 uptake in the parietotemporal, frontal, precuneus, and cuneus regions and insulin-minimized progression. No treatment-related severe adverse events occurred. These results support longer trials of intranasal insulin therapy for patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and patients with AD. Trial Registration\u00a0 clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00438568."}
{"id": "2955353", "title": "[Importance of the study of cerebral blood flow and regional oxygen consumption in cerebral ischemia].", "content": "[Importance of the study of cerebral blood flow and regional oxygen consumption in cerebral ischemia]. Studies of experimentally-induced ischaemia have shown that the intensity of neuronal suffering is related to the fall in perfusion rate. Below a certain level, called functional threshold, cerebral function is reversibly altered, whereas at a lower level (tissue necrosis threshold) the damage inflicted on neurons is irreversible. Between these two threshold lies a \"penumbra zone\". This concept of thresholds must be mitigated by 2 parameters: duration of ischaemia and selective vulnerability of the various structures affected. Variations in blood flow rate only indirectly affect the state of tissues. Techniques developed from positron emission tomography make it possible to evaluate the metabolic activity of brain tissue in vivo: oxygen consumption (CMRO2), oxygen extraction (EO2) and glucose consumption (CMRG) which are thus correlated to cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume, sometimes also to tissue pH. Normal relations between blood flow rate and metabolism may be altered. Misery perfusion reflects a fall in cerebral blood flow with an increase in EO2 and often a decrease in CMRO2, whereas luxury perfusion reflects an increase in cerebral blood flow rate with reduction of CMRO2, EO2 and CMRG. The type of alteration encountered in human ischaemia varies according to the nature of the accident: studies of transient accidents emphasize the different haemodynamic aspects of occlusion of the wider arteries. The metabolic and haemodynamic profiles of established ischaemic accidents vary according to their type and to the time of the study, reflecting the complexity of the physiopathological mechanisms involved; they are frequently associated with metabolic repercussions at a distance from the ischaemic focus, which supports the concept of diaschisis. Arteriopathic dementia probably does not result from chronic ischaemia of the cerebral parenchyma."}
{"id": "1409478", "title": "[Cerebral and cardiovascular aging and brain energy metabolism. Studies with positron-emission tomography in man].", "content": "[Cerebral and cardiovascular aging and brain energy metabolism. Studies with positron-emission tomography in man]. Positron emission tomography (PET) is the only method that measures concomitantly in the same cerebral region the main haemodynamic (blood flow, blood volume) and metabolic (oxygen and glucose consumption) parameters, thereby providing essential data concerning the supply of substrates by circulation and their principally neuronal/synaptic use by the cells. In \"healthy\" (i.e. normal) ageing, there is a progressive decrease of oxygen and glucose consumption--with subsequent reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF)--which predominates in the neocortex and suggests a dysfunction of neuronal circuits perhaps responsible for some age-related changes in cognitive functions. The metabolic depression in the neocortex seems to be accentuated during the more \"common\" ageing which may include cerebrovascular risk factors, lesions of the white matter in varying numbers and/or degradation of cognitive functions. Strategically located brain lesions of vascular origin (e.g. damaging of the thalamic nuclei), may produce a thalamo-cortical disconnection which induces a diffuse cortical hypometabolism associated with severe cognitive disorders. In degenerative dementias (particularly Alzheimer's disease), which include cortical and subcortical neuronal lesions (e.g. those involving the cholinergic system), there is a hypometabolism preferentially affecting the associative cortex. The cumulative effects on cortical functioning of multiple vascular lesions, superimposed on degenerative neuron loss, might account for age-related cognitive disorders in \"normal\" ageing as well as in the so-called \"vascular\" or \"mixed\" dementias."}
{"id": "21376506", "title": "[Brain SPECT in Lewy body dementia].", "content": "[Brain SPECT in Lewy body dementia]. Dementia of Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second cause of degenerative dementia. There is many clinical presentation of the disease. Brain single photon computed tomography (SPECT) is a simple way to investigate routinely the cerebral blood flow. On cerebral perfusion SPECT, DLB is accompanied by diffuse cortical hypoperfusion predominantly at the posterior cortex and may affect the associative and primary visual areas in relation to neuronal loss or dysfunction. DLB patients have striatal hypofixation on cerebral neurotranmission SPECT-DaTSCAN(\u00ae), related with dopaminergic loss. Brain SPECT is useful in the differential diagnosis between DLB and other dementia."}
{"id": "23291028", "title": "[A study on the cerebral glucose metabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy].", "content": "[A study on the cerebral glucose metabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy]. To study the regional cerebral glucose utilization with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET and to investigate the correlation between cerebral glucose metabolism and the clinical characteristic of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). A total of 13 patients with PSP and 30 matched healthy controls were performed (18)F-FDG PET imaging at rest state. Visual inspection and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) were used to investigate regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc). Based on the visual inspection, PET imaging in the PSP patients showed that the focal hypometabolic areas mainly included the bilateral frontal cortex, midbrain and subcortical structures. Compared to the controls, voxel-based analysis showed that the regional glucose metabolism decreased in bilateral superior, middle frontal gyrus, cingulate gyrus, midbrain and subcortical structures including basal ganglion and thalamus, which were consisted with the clinical characteristics, such as vertical gaze palsy, pseudobulbar palsy, postural instability, axial rigidity, dementia and so on. (18)F-FDG PET imaging is helpful for the early diagnosis of PSP."}
{"id": "23238736", "title": "Apolipoprotein E, not fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid, reduces cerebral glucose metabolism in normal aging.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E, not fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid, reduces cerebral glucose metabolism in normal aging. The \u03b54 allele of the polymorphic apolipoprotein E gene is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), deposition of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2), and reduction in cerebral glucose metabolism in asymptomatic people. Although ApoE4 may exert an effect on AD risk through amyloidogenic pathways, whether its effect on glucose metabolism is related to A\u03b2 is unknown. To answer this question, we examined data from 175 cognitively normal older people (mean age, 77; 87 men, 88 women) in the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative studied concurrently with [(18)F]flurodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography measures of glucose metabolism and the radiotracer [(18)F]florbetapir, an imaging agent which labels fibrillar A\u03b2 in vivo. Based on a threshold value of florbetapir uptake determined in separate samples, subjects were categorized as florbetapir+ or florbetapir-. Glucose metabolism was measured as a continuous variable in a group of regions of interest (ROIs) selected a priori based on their involvement in AD, and also by using a whole-brain voxelwise approach. Among this sample, 29% of subjects were florbetapir+ and 23% were ApoE4 carriers. As expected, there was a significant association between ApoE4 genotype and florbetapir positivity. Florbetapir status, however, was not significantly associated with glucose metabolism, but the ApoE4 genotype was associated with lower metabolism in both voxelwise and ROI approaches. These results show that ApoE genotype, and not aggregated fibrillar forms of A\u03b2, contributes to reduced glucose metabolism in aging and adds to a growing list of neural consequences of ApoE that do not appear to be related to A\u03b2."}
{"id": "23210166", "title": "[Mechanisms of cerebral damage in patients with HIV-infection].", "content": "[Mechanisms of cerebral damage in patients with HIV-infection]. Mechanisms of HIV transportation through blood-brain barrier, vascular plexus and interaction with cerebral cells having CD-4-receptors, CCR-5- and CXCR-4-coreceptors were studied. Cerebral damage developed through latent and acute periods also known as HIV-encephalopathy, HIV-associated neurocognitive dysfunction etc. Cerebral lesions are caused by a variety of chemical agents from pro-inflammatory cytokines to toxic HIV-proteins resulting in development of HIV-dementia through several years. Even early stage of this process revealed significant disturbances of glucose metabolism and evoked potentials EEG alterations which can serve as a marker of HIV-infection. Genetic differences of HIV in blood and spinal liquor with different drug resistance were revealed implying a new approach to therapy development."}
{"id": "23208196", "title": "Clinical staging of semantic dementia in an FDG-PET study using FTLD-CDR.", "content": "Clinical staging of semantic dementia in an FDG-PET study using FTLD-CDR. The frontotemporal lobar degeneration-specific clinical dementia rating (FTLD-CDR), which was recently developed to measure frontotemporal dementia (FTD) severity, includes 2 items that assess language and behavior in addition to the 6 items of the conventional CDR. To investigate which of the 3 ratings, i.e. the global score of the CDR (GCDR), the behavioral domain score of the FTLD-CDR (BCDR), or the language domain score of the FTLD-CDR (LCDR), is most suitable for monitoring the progression of semantic dementia (SD), the number of hypometabolic voxels was calculated by comparing 28 SD patients in each stage of the 3 ratings with 63 age/sex-matched controls using voxel-based statistical parametric mapping. The hypometabolic areas increased as a function of the LCDR score in SD patients. However, hypometabolic areas associated with the GCDR did not increase gradually as the stage increased. Furthermore, those associated with the BCDR showed the reverse pattern. Our findings suggest that the severity and patterning of glucose hypometabolism measured by the LCDR correspond well with the natural course of SD reported in previous clinical and neuroimaging studies, whereas the BCDR and GCDR did not reflect disease progression in SD."}
{"id": "23179062", "title": "Relationship between baseline brain metabolism measured using [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG PET and memory and executive function in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationship between baseline brain metabolism measured using [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG PET and memory and executive function in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease. Differences in brain metabolism as measured by FDG-PET in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been consistently observed, with a characteristic parietotemporal hypometabolic pattern. However, exploration of brain metabolic correlates of more nuanced measures of cognitive function has been rare, particularly in larger samples. We analyzed the relationship between resting brain metabolism and memory and executive functioning within diagnostic group on a voxel-wise basis in 86 people with AD, 185 people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 86 healthy controls (HC) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). We found positive associations within AD and MCI but not in HC. For MCI and AD, impaired executive functioning was associated with reduced parietotemporal metabolism, suggesting a pattern consistent with known AD-related hypometabolism. These associations suggest that decreased metabolic activity in the parietal and temporal lobes may underlie the executive function deficits in AD and MCI. For memory, hypometabolism in similar regions of the parietal and temporal lobes were significantly associated with reduced performance in the MCI group. However, for the AD group, memory performance was significantly associated with metabolism in frontal and orbitofrontal areas, suggesting the possibility of compensatory metabolic activity in these areas. Overall, the associations between brain metabolism and cognition in this study suggest the importance of parietal and temporal lobar regions in memory and executive function in the early stages of disease and an increased importance of frontal regions for memory with increasing impairment."}
{"id": "23172518", "title": "The chemotherapy long-term effect on cognitive functions and brain metabolism in lymphoma patients.", "content": "The chemotherapy long-term effect on cognitive functions and brain metabolism in lymphoma patients. A growing number of neuropsychological studies reported that chemotherapy may impair brain functions, inducing persistent cognitive changes in a subset of cancer survivors. The aim of this paper was to investigate the neural basis of the chemotherapy induced neurobehavioral changes by means of metabolic imaging and neuropsychological testing. We studied the resting brain [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT images of 50 adult cancer patients with diagnosis of lymphoma: 18 patients were studied prior and 32 after to chemotherapy. All patients underwent to a neuropsychological examination assessing cognitive impairment (tests for shifting attention, verbal memory, phonemic fluency), depression, anxiety and distress. Compared to no chemotherapy patients, the treated group showed significant bilateral lower rate of glucose metabolism in prefrontal cortices, cerebellum, medial cortices and limbic brain areas. The metabolism of these regions negatively correlated with number of cycles and positively with post-chemotherapy time. The treated group showed a poorer performance in many frontal functions, but similar level of depression, anxiety and distress. Chemotherapy induced significant long-term changes in metabolism of multiple regions with a prevailing involvement of the prefrontal cortex. The observed cognitive dysfunctions could be explained by these changes. The recovery from chemotherapy is probably affected by treatment duration and by the time elapsed after its end. We speculated that the mechanism could be an accelerating ageing / oxidative stress that, in some patients at risk, could result in an early and persistent cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "23167933", "title": "Differential relations between fronto-limbic metabolism and executive function in patients with remitted bipolar I and bipolar II disorder.", "content": "Differential relations between fronto-limbic metabolism and executive function in patients with remitted bipolar I and bipolar II disorder. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between resting brain glucose metabolism and cognitive profiles in patients with remitted bipolar I disorder (BD-I) and bipolar II disorder (BD-II). We hypothesized that BD-I patients (compared to BD-II patients) would perform worse on tests of cognitive function because of abnormal metabolism in the prefrontal cortex and other mood-related brain areas. Thirty-four patients with remitted bipolar disorder (BD) (BD-I = 17, BD-II = 17) under treatment and 17 well-matched healthy controls received both fluorodeoxyglucose ((18) F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and neuropsychological tests of attention, memory, and executive function. Clinical features in patients with BD-I and BD-II were comparable. Executive function, as indicated by performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, was significantly worse (i.e., higher percentage of errors, lower percentage of conceptual level responses, and fewer categories completed) in BD-I patients than in BD-II patients and healthy subjects. No difference in attention and memory tests was found among these three groups. Brain PET analysis showed that BD-I patients (compared to BD-II patients) had significantly lower glucose uptake in the bilateral anterior cingulum, insula, striatum, and part of the prefrontal cortex, and higher glucose uptake in the left parahippocampus. Further analyses revealed significant correlations between poor executive function and abnormal glucose uptake in other brain areas in BD-I patients. There are neurobiological differences between subtypes of BD. BD-I is associated with more impaired fronto-limbic circuitry, which might account for reduced executive function in BD-I patients during remission."}
{"id": "23152610", "title": "Region-specific hierarchy between atrophy, hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load in Alzheimer's disease dementia.", "content": "Region-specific hierarchy between atrophy, hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load in Alzheimer's disease dementia. Gray matter atrophy, glucose hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid A\u03b2 deposition are well-described hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, but their relationships are poorly understood. The present study aims to compare the local levels of these three alterations in humans with Alzheimer's disease. Structural magnetic resonance imaging, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET), and (18)F-florbetapir PET data from 34 amyloid-negative healthy controls and 20 demented patients with a high probability of Alzheimer's disease etiology (attested using neuroimaging biomarkers as recently recommended) were analyzed. For each patient and imaging modality, age-adjusted Z-score maps were computed, and direct between-modality voxelwise comparison and correlation analyses were performed. Significant differences in the levels of atrophy, hypometabolism, and A\u03b2 deposition were found in most brain areas, but the hierarchy differed across regions. A cluster analysis revealed distinct subsets of regions: (1) in the hippocampus, atrophy exceeded hypometabolism, whereas A\u03b2 load was minimal; (2) in posterior association areas, A\u03b2 deposition was predominant, together with high hypometabolism and lower but still significant atrophy; and (3) in frontal regions, A\u03b2 deposition was maximal, whereas structural and metabolic alterations were low. Atrophy and hypometabolism significantly correlated in the hippocampus and temporo-parietal cortex, whereas A\u03b2 load was not significantly related to either atrophy or hypometabolism. These findings provide direct evidence for regional variations in the hierarchy and relationships between A\u03b2 load, hypometabolism, and atrophy. Altogether, these variations probably reflect the differential involvement of region-specific pathological or protective mechanisms, such as the presence of neurofibrillary tangles, disconnection, as well as compensation processes."}
{"id": "23142262", "title": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. The aim of this study was to review, summarize and analyze recent findings relevant to the contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provide accurate demonstration of the location and rate of progression of atrophic changes affecting the brain in AD and the different types of vascular lesions observed in mixed dementias and in pure VaD. Quantification of cortical thickness allows early diagnosis and rate of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. White matter involvement can also be quantified with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional methods including fMRI, functional connectivity, and MR spectroscopy (MRS). Isotope-based techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) allow measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism using (18)F-2-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Cerebral blood flow can be measured using PET with H(2)(15)O or with\u00a0single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) with technetium ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) or, more recently, arterial spin label (ASL) imaging. There are isotope markers for amyloid-beta ((11)O-PIB, (18)F-florbetapir), tau ((18)FDDNP) and activated microglia ((11)C-PK11195). Neuroimaging markers are particularly useful at the early symptomatic and preclinical asymptomatic phases of AD, as well as serving as endpoints in clinical trials."}
{"id": "23112868", "title": "Dissociation between brain amyloid deposition and metabolism in early mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Dissociation between brain amyloid deposition and metabolism in early mild cognitive impairment. The hypothetical model of dynamic biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) describes high amyloid deposition and hypometabolism at the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage. However, it remains unknown whether brain amyloidosis and hypometabolism follow the same trajectories in MCI individuals. We used the concept of early MCI (EMCI) and late MCI (LMCI) as defined by the Alzheimer's disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI)-Go in order to compare the biomarker profile between EMCI and LMCI. To examine the global and voxel-based neocortical amyloid burden and metabolism among individuals who are cognitively normal (CN), as well as those with EMCI, LMCI and mild AD. In the present study, 354 participants, including CN (n = 109), EMCI (n = 157), LMCI (n = 39) and AD (n = 49), were enrolled between September 2009 and November 2011 through ADNI-GO and ADNI-2. Brain amyloid load and metabolism were estimated using [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) PET, respectively. Uptake ratio images of [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]FDG were calculated by dividing the summed PET image by the median counts of the grey matter of the cerebellum and pons, respectively. Group differences of global [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]FDG were analyzed using ANOVA, while the voxel-based group differences were estimated using statistic parametric mapping (SPM). EMCI patients showed higher global [(18)F]AV45 retention compared to CN and lower uptake compared to LMCI. SPM detected higher [(18)F]AV45 uptake in EMCI compared to CN in the precuneus, posterior cingulate, medial and dorsal lateral prefrontal cortices, bilaterally. EMCI showed lower [(18)F]AV45 retention than LMCI in the superior temporal, inferior parietal, as well as dorsal lateral prefrontal cortices, bilaterally. Regarding to the global [(18)F]FDG, EMCI patients showed no significant difference from CN and a higher uptake ratio compared to LMCI. At the voxel level, EMCI showed higher metabolism in precuneus, hippocampus, entorhinal and inferior parietal cortices, as compared to LMCI. The present results indicate that brain metabolism remains normal despite the presence of significant amyloid accumulation in EMCI. These results suggest a role for anti-amyloid interventions in EMCI aiming to delay or halt the deposition of amyloid and related metabolism impairment."}
{"id": "23109153", "title": "Amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and longitudinal cognitive decline.", "content": "Amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and longitudinal cognitive decline. Using data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) population, we examined (1) cross-sectional relationships between amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and cognition, and (2) associations between amyloid and hypometabolism measurements and longitudinal cognitive measurements. We examined associations between mean cortical florbetapir uptake, mean (18) F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) within a set of predefined regions, and Alzhiemer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog) performance in 426 ADNI participants (126 normal, 162 early mild cognitive impairment [EMCI], 85 late MCI [LMCI], 53 Alzheimer disease [AD] patients). For a subset of these (76 normal, 81 LMCI) we determined whether florbetapir and FDG-PET were associated with retrospective decline in longitudinal ADAS-cog measurements. Twenty-nine percent of normal subjects, 43% of EMCI patients, 62% of LMCI patients, and 77% of AD patients were categorized as florbetapir positive. Florbetapir was negatively associated with concurrent FDG and ADAS-cog in both MCI groups. In longitudinal analyses, florbetapir-positive subjects in both normal and LMCI groups had greater ongoing ADAS-cog decline than those who were florbetapir negative. However, in normal subjects, florbetapir positivity was associated with greater ADAS-cog decline than FDG, whereas in LMCI, FDG positivity was associated with greater decline than florbetapir. Although both hypometabolism and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition are detectable in normal subjects and all diagnostic groups, A\u03b2 showed greater associations with cognitive decline in normal participants. In view of the minimal cognitive deterioration overall in this group, this suggests that amyloid deposition has an early and subclinical impact on cognition that precedes metabolic changes. At moderate and later stages of disease (LMCI/AD), hypometabolism becomes more pronounced and more closely linked to ongoing cognitive decline."}
{"id": "23106049", "title": "Feasibility of estimation of brain volume and 2-deoxy-2-(18)F-fluoro-D-glucose metabolism using a novel automated image analysis method: application in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Feasibility of estimation of brain volume and 2-deoxy-2-(18)F-fluoro-D-glucose metabolism using a novel automated image analysis method: application in Alzheimer's disease. The development of clinically-applicable quantitative methods for the analysis of brain fluorine-18 fluoro desoxyglucose-positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET) images is a major area of research in many neurologic diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). Region of interest visualization, evaluation, and image registration (ROVER) is a novel commercially-available software package which provides automated partial volume corrected measures of volume and glucose uptake from (18)F-FDG PET data. We performed a pilot study of ROVER analysis of brain (18)F-FDG PET images for the first time in a small cohort of patients with AD and controls. Brain (18)F-FDG-PET and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed on 14 AD patients and 18 age-matched controls. Images were subjected to ROVER analysis, and voxel-based analysis using SPM5. Volumes by ROVER were 35% lower than MRI volumes in AD patients (as hypometabolic regions were excluded in ROVER-derived volume measurement ) while average ROVER- and MRI-derived cortical volumes were nearly identical in control population. Whole brain volumes when ROVER-derived and whole brain metabolic volumetric products (MVP) were significantly lower in AD and accurately distinguished AD patients from controls (Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Receiver Operator Characteristic (ROC) curves 0.89 and 0.86, respectively). This diagnostic accuracy was similar to voxel-based analyses. Analysis by ROVER of (18)F-FDG-PET images provides a unique index of metabolically-active brain volume, and can accurately distinguish between AD patients and controls as a proof of concept. In conclusion, our findings suggest that ROVER may serve as a useful quantitative adjunct to visual or regional assessment and aid analysis of whole-brain metabolism in AD and other neurologic and psychiatric diseases."}
{"id": "23065791", "title": "My belief or yours? Differential theory of mind deficits in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "My belief or yours? Differential theory of mind deficits in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Theory of mind reasoning-the ability to understand someone else's mental states, such as beliefs, intentions and desires-is crucial in social interaction. It has been suggested that a theory of mind deficit may account for some of the abnormalities in interpersonal behaviour that characterize patients affected by behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. However, there are conflicting reports as to whether understanding someone else's mind is a key difference between behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and other neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. Literature data on the relationship between theory of mind abilities and executive functions are also contradictory. These disparities may be due to underestimation of the fractionation within theory of mind components. A recent theoretical framework suggests that taking someone else's mental perspective requires two distinct processes: inferring someone else's belief and inhibiting one's own belief, with involvement of the temporoparietal and right frontal cortices, respectively. Therefore, we performed a neuropsychological and neuroimaging study to investigate the hypothesis whereby distinct cognitive deficits could impair theory of mind reasoning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. We used a three-option false belief task to assess theory of mind components in 11 patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, 12 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 healthy elderly control subjects. The patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and those with Alzheimer's disease were matched for age, gender, education and global cognitive impairment. [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography imaging was used to investigate neural correlates of theory of mind reasoning deficits. Performance in the three-option false belief task revealed differential impairments in the components of theory of mind reasoning; patients with Alzheimer's disease had a predominant deficit in inferring someone else's belief, whereas patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia were selectively impaired in inhibiting their own mental perspective. Moreover, inhibiting one's own perspective was strongly correlated with inhibition in a Stroop task but not with other subprocesses of executive functions. This finding suggests that self-perspective inhibition may depend on cognitive processes that are not specific to the social domain. Last, the severity of the deficit in inferring someone else's beliefs correlated significantly over all subjects with hypometabolism in the left temporoparietal junction, whereas the severity of the deficit in self-perspective inhibition correlated significantly with hypometabolism in the right lateral prefrontal cortex. In conclusion, our findings provided clinical and imaging evidence to support differential deficits in two components of theory of mind reasoning (subserved by distinct brain regions) in patients with Alzheimer's disease and patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "23056355", "title": "Methylene blue as a cerebral metabolic and hemodynamic enhancer.", "content": "Methylene blue as a cerebral metabolic and hemodynamic enhancer. By restoring mitochondrial function, methylene blue (MB) is an effective neuroprotectant in many neurological disorders (e.g., Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases). MB has also been proposed as a brain metabolic enhancer because of its action on mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase. We used in vitro and in vivo approaches to determine how MB affects brain metabolism and hemodynamics. For in vitro, we evaluated the effect of MB on brain mitochondrial function, oxygen consumption, and glucose uptake. For in vivo, we applied neuroimaging and intravenous measurements to determine MB's effect on glucose uptake, cerebral blood flow (CBF), and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) under normoxic and hypoxic conditions in rats. MB significantly increases mitochondrial complex I-III activity in isolated mitochondria and enhances oxygen consumption and glucose uptake in HT-22 cells. Using positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we observed significant increases in brain glucose uptake, CBF, and CMRO(2) under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Further, MRI revealed that MB dramatically increased CBF in the hippocampus and in the cingulate, motor, and frontoparietal cortices, areas of the brain affected by Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Our results suggest that MB can enhance brain metabolism and hemodynamics, and multimetric neuroimaging systems offer a noninvasive, nondestructive way to evaluate treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "23050829", "title": "Protocol for a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of physical activity on delaying the progression of white matter changes on MRI in older adults with memory complaints and mild cognitive impairment: the AIBL Active trial.", "content": "Protocol for a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of physical activity on delaying the progression of white matter changes on MRI in older adults with memory complaints and mild cognitive impairment: the AIBL Active trial. Older adults free of dementia but with subjective memory complaints (SMC) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are considered at increased risk of cognitive decline. Vascular risk factors (VRF), including hypertension, heart disease, smoking, hypercholesterolemia and lack of physical activity (PA) have been identified as modifiable risk factors contributing to cognitive decline, and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) are associated with VRF, SMC and cognitive impairment. Findings from a growing number of clinical trials with older adults are providing strong evidence for the benefits of physical activity for maintaining cognitive function, but few studies are investigating these benefits in high-risk populations. The aim of AIBL Active is to determine whether a 24-month physical activity program can delay the progression of white matter changes on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This single-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) is offered to 156 participants, aged 60 and older, in the Melbourne arm of the Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study of Aging (AIBL). Participants must have SMC with or without MCI and at least one VRF. The PA intervention is a modification of the intervention previously trialed in older adults with SMC and MCI (Fitness for the Ageing Brain Study). It comprises 24 months of moderate, home-based PA (150 minutes per week) and a behavioral intervention package. The primary outcome measure will be change in WMH after 24 months on MRI. Cognition, quality of life, functional fitness, level of physical activity, plasma biomarkers for cerebrovascular disease and amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging comprise secondary measures. Currently, there is no effective pharmacological treatment available to delay cognitive decline and dementia in older adults at risk. Should our findings show that physical activity can slow down the progression of WMH, this RCT would provide an important proof of concept. Since imbedded in AIBL this RCT will also be able to investigate the interaction between vascular and Alzheimer's disease pathologies. Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12611000612910."}
{"id": "22994619", "title": "Classification of delusions in Alzheimer's disease and their neural correlates.", "content": "Classification of delusions in Alzheimer's disease and their neural correlates. Previous findings on neural correlates of delusion in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been inconsistent because of methodological issues, such as treating multiple delusions as a single entity. In this retrospective study, we classified AD delusions and investigated their neural correlates by using single-photon emission computed tomography data. We selected AD patients with delusions from our consecutive outpatients from 2004 to 2010. In this study, eight types of delusions were evaluated with Neuropsychiatric Inventory and classified by factor analysis. Twenty-five of the patients also had single-photon emission computed tomography data, which we used to assess the relationships between cerebral regions of hypoperfusion and hyperperfusion and each classified delusion. The relations were assessed using Statistical Parametric Mapping with normalization to the white matter cerebral blood flow. The delusions were classified into three factors. Factor 1 consisted of a belief that his/her house is not his/her home, phantom boarder symptom, delusion of abandonment, and belief that one's spouse or others are not who they claim to be. Factor 1 was related to hypoperfusion in the right temporal pole and hyperperfusion in the medial frontal and precentral regions. Factor 2 consisted of delusion relating to the television and delusion of persecution. Factor 2 was related to hypoperfusion in the precuneus and hyperperfusion in the insula and thalamus. Factor 3 consisted of delusion of abandonment and delusional jealousy. Factor 3 was related to hypoperfusion in the right inferior temporal and frontal regions and hyperperfusion in the middle frontal gyrus, insula and posterior cingulate gyrus. Delusion of theft was not included in any factors, and it was related to hypoperfusion in the bilateral thalami and left posterior cingulate gyrus and hyperperfusion in the left inferior frontal regions and anterior cingulate gyrus. Delusions in AD were classifiable, and each classified delusion was related to different neural networks."}
{"id": "22990206", "title": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging markers in early versus late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging markers in early versus late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) has been overshadowed by the more common late-onset AD (LOAD). Yet, the literature indicates EOAD may have less hippocampal-memory presentations and more focal neocortical localization early in the disease. To evaluate these proposed differences between these 2 forms of AD and to explore what they inform about differences in AD pathophysiology. In all, 21 patients with EOAD and 24 patients with LOAD matched for disease progression and severity were compared on neurocognitive measures and resting state fluorodeoxy-glucose positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET). Patients with EOAD had worse executive functions with greater hypometabolism in the parietal regions; whereas patients with LOAD had worse confrontation naming and verbal recognition memory with greater hypometabolism in inferior frontotemporal regions. In addition to highlighting significant differences between EOAD and LOAD, these results reveal dissociation between executive deficits in AD and frontal hypometabolism, suggesting early disturbances of the parietal-frontal network in EOAD."}
{"id": "22989783", "title": "[Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains difficult to establish, and can only be considered as certain thanks to anatomopathological evidence, or genetic mutations. Current diagnostic criteria rely on innovative imaging and biological tools, in order to detect pathological cues from very early stages, and with best sensibility and sensitivity. Advances in neuro-imaging enabled the development of different tools to help establishing the diagnosis, such as cerebral atrophy assessment on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and cerebral metabolism study on positron emission tomography (PET). Besides, the increasing use of in vivo biological markers, combined to clinical criteria, enables to discriminate patients from healthy controls at even earlier stages. This includes studies on tau and beta-amyloid proteins concentrations in the cerebrosinal fluid, and amyloid-specific radioligands uptake. Familial forms of Alzheimer represent a great model for studying early or even pre-symptomatic AD, as genetic analyses constitute a diagnosis of certainty, even though they usually evolve earlier and faster. Diagnostic tools are more and more numerous and performant. According to patients' clinical heterogeneity, it appears essential to associate different method to investigate, in order to make a diagnosis as early and as reliable as possible."}
{"id": "22985800", "title": "Abnormal apocrine secretory cell mitochondria in a Huntington disease patient.", "content": "Abnormal apocrine secretory cell mitochondria in a Huntington disease patient. Over two decades, a 42-year old woman experienced the gradual onset of choreic involuntary movements, dystonia, and tics. Decreased caudate nucleus metabolism on 2-deoxyglucose PET scan and a heterozygous 49-CAG repeat expansion within the HTT gene established the diagnosis of HD, although no other family history was known. An axillary skin biopsy revealed a distinctive abnormality of mitochondria limited to the apocrine secretory cells on electron microscopy. All mitochondria were transformed into rounded structures with disrupted cristae and prominent myelin figures; many were enlarged up to 4 times the normal. Cytoplasm of apocrine secretory cells showed an abundance of lipid vacuoles, empty vesicles, and dense bodies. Biopsied skeletal muscle histology (light microscopy) was normal, as was a mitochondrial metabolism study. Biopsies from other HD patients have shown similar mitochondrial changes in cerebral neurons, muscle, fibroblasts, and lymphoblasts, adding to evidence for a systemic disturbance of mitochondria in HD."}
{"id": "22972646", "title": "Vascular burden and Alzheimer disease pathologic progression.", "content": "Vascular burden and Alzheimer disease pathologic progression. To investigate the vascular contribution to longitudinal changes in Alzheimer disease (AD) biomarkers. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative is a clinic based, longitudinal study with CSF, PET, and MRI biomarkers repeatedly measured in participants with normal cognition (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and mild AD. Participants with severe cerebrovascular risks were excluded. Cardiovascular risk scores and MRI white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) were treated as surrogate markers for vascular burden. Generalized estimating equations were applied, and both vascular burden and its interaction with time (vascular burden \u00d7 time) or time-varying WMHs were entered into regression models to assess whether biomarker rates of change were modified by vascular burden. Cardiovascular risk profiles were not predictive of progression in CSF \u03b2\u2084\u2082-amyloid, [\u00b9\u2078F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET uptake, and MRI hippocampal atrophy. Greater baseline cardiovascular risks or WMHs were generally associated with cognitive impairment, particularly poor executive function. WMHs increased over time with a faster rate in MCI and AD than in NC. Increased time-varying WMH was associated with faster decline in executive function and lower FDG uptake in NC. Otherwise, WMH was not associated with CSF and MRI biomarkers in the 3 groups. These findings remained unchanged after accounting for APOE4. Increased WMHs are associated with aging, decreased glucose metabolism, and decline in executive function but do not affect AD-specific pathologic progression, suggesting that the vascular contribution to dementia is probably additive although not necessarily independent of the amyloid pathway."}
{"id": "22929437", "title": "Glucagon-like peptide-1 decreases intracerebral glucose content by activating hexokinase and changing glucose clearance during hyperglycemia.", "content": "Glucagon-like peptide-1 decreases intracerebral glucose content by activating hexokinase and changing glucose clearance during hyperglycemia. Type 2 diabetes and hyperglycemia with the resulting increase of glucose concentrations in the brain impair the outcome of ischemic stroke, and may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reports indicate that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) may be neuroprotective in models of AD and stroke: Although the mechanism is unclear, glucose homeostasis appears to be important. We conducted a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover study in nine healthy males. Positron emission tomography was used to determine the effect of GLP-1 on cerebral glucose transport and metabolism during a hyperglycemic clamp with (18)fluoro-deoxy-glucose as tracer. Glucagon-like peptide-1 lowered brain glucose (P=0.023) in all regions. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was increased everywhere (P=0.039) but not to the same extent in all regions (P=0.022). The unidirectional glucose transfer across the blood-brain barrier remained unchanged (P=0.099) in all regions, while the unidirectional clearance and the phosphorylation rate increased (P=0.013 and 0.017), leading to increased net clearance of the glucose tracer (P=0.006). We show that GLP-1 plays a role in a regulatory mechanism involved in the actions of GLUT1 and glucose metabolism: GLP-1 ensures less fluctuation of brain glucose levels in response to alterations in plasma glucose, which may prove to be neuroprotective during hyperglycemia."}
{"id": "22929226", "title": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging.", "content": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging. As the world population ages, the incidence of dementing illnesses will dramatically increase. The number of people afflicted with dementia is expected to quadruple in the next 50 years. Since the neuropathology of the dementias precedes clinical symptoms often by several years, earlier detection and intervention could be key steps to mitigating the progression and burden of these diseases. This review will explore methods of evaluating, differentiating, and diagnosing the multiple forms of dementia. Particular emphasis will be placed on the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment-the precursor to dementia. Anatomical imaging; cerebrospinal fluid markers; functional neuroimaging, such as positron emission tomography and single photon emission tomography; and molecular imaging, such as amyloid marker imaging, will be assessed in terms of sensitivity and specificity. Cost will also be a consideration, as the growing population afflicted with dementia represents an increasingly large financial encumbrance to the healthcare systems of every nation. In the face of expensive new markers and limited availability of cyclotrons, single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) provides relatively high sensitivity and specificity at a comparatively low overall cost."}
{"id": "22926714", "title": "Quantitative longitudinal interrelationships between brain metabolism and amyloid deposition during a 2-year follow-up in patients with early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantitative longitudinal interrelationships between brain metabolism and amyloid deposition during a 2-year follow-up in patients with early Alzheimer's disease. Similar regional anatomical distributions were reported for fibrillary amyloid deposition [measured by (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) positron emission tomography (PET)] and brain hypometabolism [measured by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET] in numerous Alzheimer's disease (AD) studies. However, there is a lack of longitudinal studies evaluating the interrelationships of these two different pathological markers in the same AD population. Our most recent AD study suggested that the longitudinal pattern of hypometabolism anatomically follows the pattern of amyloid deposition with temporal delay, which indicates that neuronal dysfunction may spread within the anatomical pattern of amyloid pathology. Based on this finding we now hypothesize that in early AD patients quantitative longitudinal decline in hypometabolism may be related to the amount of baseline amyloid deposition during a follow-up period of 2 years. Fifteen patients with mild probable AD underwent baseline (T1) and follow-up (T2) examination after 24 \u00b1 2.1 months with [(18)F]FDG PET, [(11)C]PIB PET, structural T1-weighted MRI and neuropsychological testing [Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) neuropsychological battery]. Longitudinal cognitive measures and quantitative PET measures of amyloid deposition and metabolism [standardized uptake value ratios (SUVRs)] were obtained using volume of interest (VOI)-based approaches in the frontal-lateral-retrosplenial (FLR) network and in predefined bihemispheric brain regions after partial volume effect (PVE) correction of PET data. Statistical group comparisons (SUVRs and cognitive measures) between patients and 15 well-matched elderly controls who had undergone identical imaging procedures once as well as Pearson's correlation analyses within patients were performed. Group comparison revealed significant cognitive decline and increased mean PIB/decreased FDG SUVRs in the FLR network as well as in several AD-typical regions in patients relative to controls. Concurrent with cognitive decline patients showed longitudinal increase in mean PIB/decrease in mean FDG SUVRs over time in the FLR network and in several AD-typical brain regions. Correlation analyses of FLR network SUVRs in patients revealed significant positive correlations between PIB T1 and delta FDG (FDG T1-T2) SUVRs, between PIB T1 and PIB T2 SUVRs, between FDG T1 and PIB T2 SUVRs as well as between FDG T1 and FDG T2 SUVRs, while significant negative correlations were found between FDG T1 and delta PIB (PIB T1-T2) SUVRs as well as between FDG T2 and delta FDG (FDG T1-T2) SUVRs. These findings were confirmed in locoregional correlation analyses, revealing significant associations in the same directions for two left hemispheric regions and nine right hemispheric regions, showing the strongest association for bilateral precuneus. Baseline amyloid deposition in patients with mild probable AD was associated with longitudinal metabolic decline. Additionally, mildly decreased/relatively preserved baseline metabolism was associated with a longitudinal increase in amyloid deposition. The latter bidirectional associations were present in the whole AD-typical FLR network and in several highly interconnected hub regions (i.e. in the precuneus). Our longitudinal findings point to a bidirectional quantitative interrelationship of the two investigated AD pathologies, comprising an initial relative maintenance of neuronal activity in already amyloid-positive hub regions (neuronal compensation), followed by accelerated amyloid deposition, accompanied by functional neuronal decline (neuronal breakdown) along with cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22914831", "title": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism.", "content": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. Imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with PET and striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptors (D2R) with SPECT improves the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. We prospectively investigated 1) the diagnostic merits of these approaches in differentiating between Lewy body diseases (LBD; majority Parkinson disease [PD]) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APS); 2) the diagnostic value of [\u00b9\u2078F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET to differentiate among APS subgroups. Ninety-five of 107 consecutive patients with clinically suspected APS referred for imaging were recruited. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET scans were analyzed by visual assessment (including individual voxel-based statistical maps). Based on a priori defined disease-specific patterns, patients with putative APS were differentiated from LBD (first level) and allocated to the subgroups multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), or corticobasal degeneration (CBD) (second level). [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I] iodobenzamide (IBZM)-SPECT datasets were subjected to an observer-independent regions-of-interest analysis to assess striatal D2R availability. Movement disorder specialists made final clinical diagnoses after a median follow-up time of 12 months. Seventy-eight patients with clinically verified APS (n = 44) or LBD (n = 34) were included in the statistical analysis. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for discrimination between APS and LBD was significantly larger for [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET (0.94) than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT (0.74; p = 0.0006). Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for diagnosing APS was 86%/91%, respectively. Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET in identifying APS subgroups was 77%/97% for MSA, 74%/95% for PSP, and 75%/92% for CBD. The diagnostic accuracy of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for discriminating LBD from APS is considerably higher than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET reliably differentiates APS subgroups."}
{"id": "22914828", "title": "Glucose metabolism, gray matter structure, and memory decline in subjective memory impairment.", "content": "Glucose metabolism, gray matter structure, and memory decline in subjective memory impairment. To identify biological evidence for Alzheimer disease (AD) in individuals with subjective memory impairment (SMI) and unimpaired cognitive performance and to investigate the longitudinal cognitive course in these subjects. [\u00b9\u2078F]fluoro-2-deoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) and structural MRI were acquired in 31 subjects with SMI and 56 controls. Cognitive follow-up testing was performed (average follow-up time: 35 months). Differences in baseline brain imaging data and in memory decline were assessed between both groups. Associations of memory decline with brain imaging data were tested. The SMI group showed hypometabolism in the right precuneus and hypermetabolism in the right medial temporal lobe. Gray matter volume was reduced in the right hippocampus in the SMI group. At follow-up, subjects with SMI showed a poorer performance than controls on measures of episodic memory. Longitudinal memory decline in the SMI group was associated with reduced glucose metabolism in the right precuneus at baseline. The cross-sectional difference in 2 independent neuroimaging modalities indicates early AD pathology in SMI. The poorer memory performance at follow-up and the association of reduced longitudinal memory performance with hypometabolism in the precuneus at baseline support the concept of SMI as the earliest manifestation of AD."}
{"id": "22892349", "title": "Increased binding of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor in mild cognitive impairment-dementia converters measured by positron emission tomography with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106.", "content": "Increased binding of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor in mild cognitive impairment-dementia converters measured by positron emission tomography with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106. Subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have \"prodromal or incipient\" dementia with neuropathological changes. Peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) binding was shown to reflect activated microglia, one of the predictive biomarkers of conversion to dementia. We sought to evaluate PBR binding in MCI subjects using positron emission tomography (PET). PET scans with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106, a potent and selective ligand for PBR, were performed on seven MCI subjects, 10 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 10 age-matched control subjects. PBR binding in the regions of interest was quantified by binding potential (BP). Five MCI subjects were clinically followed for 5 years after their initial PET scans. [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106 binding to PBR was significantly increased in widespread areas in MCI subjects when compared to healthy controls. We found no significant difference in BP between MCI and AD patients. MCI subjects with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106 binding values higher than the control mean +0.5 standard deviation (S.D.) developed dementia within 5 years. Our finding of higher DAA binding in MCI subjects indicated that microglial activation may occur before the onset of dementia. In vivo detection of microglial activation may provide useful prognostic information with respect to stratifying MCI subjects at increased risk of dementia."}
{"id": "22889795", "title": "Two different 18F-FDG brain PET metabolic patterns in autoimmune limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Two different 18F-FDG brain PET metabolic patterns in autoimmune limbic encephalitis. Autoimmune limbic encephalitis (ALE) is a severe, but treatable, neuropsychiatric disorder that is difficult to diagnose clinically. With the goal of improving diagnosis of this disorder, we retrospectively evaluated the cerebral FDG PET pattern in a group of patients with ALE. Nine adult patients with subacute cognitive decline were eventually diagnosed with ALE based on clinical presentation, cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory markers, and response to immunosuppressive therapy. All patients received FDG PET brain scanning during their diagnostic evaluation, which were retrospectively reviewed for this study. Our patients' scans fell into 2 readily separable patterns. Five younger patients had a mixed metabolic pattern most easily recognized by pronounced occipital hypometabolism, accentuated by hypermetabolism in the temporal and orbitofrontal cortex. Other, milder findings were also present. Once this unusual pattern was established as corresponding to ALE, it helped lead to the correct clinical diagnosis in the last 2 patients. Four older patients had scans that closely resembled diffuse neurodegenerative disease. We found 2 different PET scan patterns in patients with ALE. One is an easily recognizable mixture of hyper- and hypometabolism that has also been described in a few recent case reports and is potentially specific for ALE. The other is indistinguishable from neurodegenerative disease. We propose that awareness of these patterns may contribute to the diagnosis of this elusive, but treatable, neurologic disorder."}
{"id": "22886562", "title": "Quintessential risk factors: their role in promoting cognitive dysfunction and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quintessential risk factors: their role in promoting cognitive dysfunction and Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. The human brain is extremely sensitive to hypoxia, ischemia, and glucose depletion. Impaired delivery of oxygen in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) alters neuronal homeostasis, induces pathology, and triggers neuronal degeneration/death. This article systematically delineates the steps in the complex cascade leading to AD, focusing on pathology caused by chronic intermittent hypoxia, hypertension, brain hypoperfusion, glucose dysmetabolism, and endothelial dysfunction. Hypoxia/hypoxemia underpins several pathological processes including sympathetic activation, chemoreflex activity, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and a host of perturbations leading to neurodegeneration. The arterial blood flow reduction in OSA is profound, being about 76 % in obstructive hypopneas and 80 % in obstructive apneas; this leads to cerebral ischemia promoting neuronal apoptosis in neocortex and brainstem. OSA pathology also includes gray matter loss in the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital cortices, the thalamus, hippocampus, and key brainstem nuclei including the nucleus tractus solitarius. (18)F-FDG PET studies on OSA and AD patients, and animal models of AD, have shown reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in the above mentioned brain regions. Owing to the pathological impact of hypoxia, hypertension, hypoperfusion and impaired glucose metabolism, the adverse cardiovascular, neurocirculatory and metabolic consequences upregulate amyloid beta generation and tau phosphorylation, and lead to memory/cognitive impairment-culminating in AD. The framework encompassing these factors provides a pragmatic neuropathological approach to explain onset of Alzheimer's dementia. The basic tenets of the current paradigm should influence the design of therapeutic strategies to ameliorate AD."}
{"id": "22884479", "title": "Does vascular pathology contribute to Alzheimer changes?", "content": "Does vascular pathology contribute to Alzheimer changes? In recent years there has been increased interest in whether vascular disease contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD). This review considers how modifiable risk factors such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, diabetes, dyslipidaemia and adiposity may impact on vascular structure and function to promote neurodegenerative processes and instigate AD. The presence of vascular pathology involving arterial stiffness, arteriolosclerosis, endothelial degeneration and blood-brain barrier dysfunction leads to chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. Pathological changes in human brain and animal studies suggest cerebral hypoperfusion which in turn induces several features of AD pathology including selective brain atrophy, white matter changes and accumulation of abnormal proteins such as amyloid \u03b2. Cerebral pathological changes may be further modified by genetic factors such as the apoliopoprotein E \u03b54 allele. Although tau hyperphosphorylation and tangle formation still needs robust explanation further support for the notion that vascular pathology influences AD changes is provided by the evidence that interventions which improve vascular function attenuate AD pathology."}
{"id": "22880625", "title": "Exploring temporospatial changes in glucose metabolic disorder, learning, and memory dysfunction in a rat model of diffuse axonal injury.", "content": "Exploring temporospatial changes in glucose metabolic disorder, learning, and memory dysfunction in a rat model of diffuse axonal injury. Diffuse axonal injury (DAI) is the predominant effect of severe traumatic brain injury and contributes significantly to cognitive deficits. The mechanisms underlying these cognitive deficits are often associated with complex metabolic alterations. However, the relationships between temporospatial alterations in cerebral glucose metabolism and the pathophysiology of DAI-related learning and memory dysfunction are not yet completely understood. We used a small animal positron emission tomography (PET) scanner with 2-[F-18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (\u00b9\u2078F-FDG) as a molecular probe to evaluate temporospatial glucose metabolism in vulnerable areas of rats with DAI. The Morris water maze (MWM) was used to evaluate the development and progression of learning and memory dysfunction. Compared to the sham-treated group, PET-MRI fusion images showed that glucose metabolism was reduced in animals with DAI. In addition, the standardized uptake value (SUV) of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG was significantly decreased in the sensorimotor cortex, hippocampus, corpus callosum, caudate putamen, brain stem, and cerebellum at days 1, 3, and 7 after injury. SUV returned to baseline levels by 30 days after injury. The escape latency of the injured group was significantly increased, and the percentages of distance travelled and time spent in the target quadrant were significantly decreased 1 month after injury. These effects persisted for 3 months. SUVs in the hippocampus at the acute stage were significantly correlated with MWM performance during the recovery stage of DAI. These results demonstrate that microstructural injury-induced hypometabolism in the hippocampus at the acute stage are all significantly correlated with learning and memory dysfunctions during the recovery stage of DAI."}
{"id": "22878982", "title": "Progressive neuropsychiatric and brain abnormalities after smoke inhalation.", "content": "Progressive neuropsychiatric and brain abnormalities after smoke inhalation. A 46-year-old man inhaled combustible smoke of unknown chemical composition for 15-20 min in an automobile body shop. Within 1&emsp14;month, he noted headache, sadness, anergia, anhedonia, agitation, poor sleep and impairment of concentration, attention and learning skills. Three years later, mental status examination showed major depression and cognitive disorder manifested by apprehension, continuous sadness, agitation, exhaustion, difficulty with word finding, bradyphrenia, short-term and long-term memory impairment, and judgement impaired by impulsive and affect-laden reactions without reflection. Impairments were noted on neuropsychiatric tests, and positron emission tomography (PET) scan of the brain with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose showed globally decreased and heterogeneous metabolic activity in the entire brain. Treatment included sertraline, methylphenidate, valproic acid and topiramate. At 14 years after smoke inhalation injury, he had persistent cognitive impairment. Repeat brain PET scan showed areas of improvement and deterioration. This case shows long-term brain and psychiatric dysfunction resulting after toxic smoke inhalation, with some areas of the brain having progressive deterioration between years 3 and 14 after smoke inhalation."}
{"id": "22872307", "title": "Posterior parietooccipital hypometabolism may differentiate mild cognitive impairment from dementia in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Posterior parietooccipital hypometabolism may differentiate mild cognitive impairment from dementia in Parkinson's disease. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may have normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia. We investigated differences in cerebral metabolism associated with these three cognitive states and the relationship between metabolism and cognitive dysfunction. FDG PET and a battery of neuropsychological tests were used to study PD patients with dementia (n = 19), MCI (n = 28) and normal cognition (n = 21), and control subjects (n = 20). Regional glucose metabolism in patients and controls was analysed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM8) corrected for age, motor severity and depression. Correlations between the mini-mental state examination score and Z-score values of the different cognitive domains with respect to cerebral FDG uptake were assessed using SPM8. PD patients with MCI (PD-MCI patients) exhibited decreased FDG uptake in the frontal lobe, and to a lesser extent in parietal areas compared with cognitively normal patients. Patients with dementia showed reduced metabolism in the parietal, occipital and temporal areas and a less extensive reduction in the frontal lobe compared with PD-MCI patients, while widespread hypometabolism was seen in comparison with patients with normal cognition. PD-MCI patients exhibited reduced FDG uptake in the parietal and occipital lobes and in localized areas of the frontal and temporal lobes compared with controls, whereas patients with dementia showed a widespread reduction of cortical metabolism. Mini-mental state examination score correlated positively with metabolism in several lobes, executive function with metabolism in the parietooccipitotemporal junction and frontal lobe, memory with temporoparietal metabolism, visuospatial function with occipitoparietal and temporal metabolism, and language with frontal metabolism. PD patients with MCI exhibited hypometabolism in several cortical regions compared with controls, and in the frontal and parietal regions compared with cognitively normal patients. Hypometabolism was higher in patients with dementia than in those with MCI, mainly in the posterior cortical areas where it was correlated with visuospatial, memory and executive functions."}
{"id": "22868352", "title": "Cognitive decline and amyloid accumulation in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cognitive decline and amyloid accumulation in patients with mild cognitive impairment. The relationship between baseline (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB) uptake and cognitive decline during a 2-year follow-up was studied in 9 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who converted to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 7 who remained with MCI. (11)C-PIB PET scan was conducted at baseline and cognitive assessment both at baseline and at follow-up. To obtain quantitative regional values of (11)C-PIB uptake, automated region of interest analysis was done using spatially normalized parametric ratio (region-to-cerebellar cortex) images. At baseline, there were statistically significant differences in (11)C-PIB uptake, but not in cognitive test performances between the converters and nonconverters. Memory and executive function declined only in the converters during follow-up. In the converters, lower baseline frontal (11)C-PIB uptake was associated with faster decline in verbal learning. Higher baseline uptake in the caudate nucleus was related to faster decline in memory consolidation, and higher temporal uptake was associated with decline in executive function. Higher (11)C-PIB uptake in the caudate nucleus and temporal lobe was related to decline in memory and executive functions, whereas lower frontal uptake was related to decline in verbal learning. The results indicate that in prodromal AD, frontal amyloid accumulation reaches its maximum in the MCI stage, characterized by memory problems without full-blown dementia."}
{"id": "22844733", "title": "[Biological markers in the diagnosis of dementia and Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Biological markers in the diagnosis of dementia and Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease is the leading cause of dementia in advanced age with a prevalence of above 40% among persons 80 years or older. In recent years, new studies have made some important discoveries regarding the pathogenesis of the diseases and potential therapeutic measures. These developments have led to the announcement of new guidelines for the diagnosis of the disease published by the National Institute on Aging and the ALzheimer's Association. These guidelines expand the definition of ALzheimer's disease to include 2 new phases of the disease: pre-symptomatic and mildly symptomatic but pre-dementia. For the first time, the guidelines also incorporated the usage of biological markers to assist in the diagnosis of the disease, although they are still only in the research agenda. These biomarkers include atrophy of the medial temporal lobe by MRI, reduction of glucose metabolism in specific brain areas by PET-FDG and presence of beta-amyloid staining in the brain by PET-amyloid scan. In addition, there are also cerebrospinal fluid ICSF) biomarkers characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, which consist of low levels of Abeta42 and elevated levels of total and phosphorylated TAU. These biomarkers may be used to diagnose the disease in the early pre-symptomatic phase, to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from other causes of dementia and may be helpful in the follow-up of newly developed specific treatments."}
{"id": "22809738", "title": "Dysgraphia in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease as a manifestation of bilateral hemispheric dysfunction.", "content": "Dysgraphia in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease as a manifestation of bilateral hemispheric dysfunction. In writing, linguistic (i.e., spelling) and nonlinguistic (i.e., arranging strokes or letters) functions are processed by the left and right hemispheres, respectively. The configuration of Korean alphabet, 'Hangul' invokes nonlinguistic, visuospatial functions that other writing systems use less extensively. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have bilateral involvement of temporoparietal-frontal areas that are responsible for processing language and visuospatial functions. The aim of this study was to examine the nature of Hangul writing dysfunction, which may be associated with bilateral hemispheric impairments in AD. A sample of 75 patients with AD and 20 healthy controls (HC) performed a Hangul writing task. Neuroimaging positron emission tomography (PET) data of 22 patients were utilized to measure the regional brain glucose metabolism associated with Hangul writing. The writing performance of the AD group was significantly reduced and different types of errors were observed as the disease got worse. Glucose hypometabolism correlated with Hangul writing impairment was located in the right occipitotemporal lobe and left temporoparietal lobe. The PET findings demonstrate that impairment in Hangul writing performance in Korean AD patients is closely related to a functional decline in both the right and left hemispheres. The study provides a unique contribution to the knowledge of dysgraphia in a non-alphabetical writing system as well as the underlying neuropathology of dysgraphic features in such languages."}
{"id": "22796873", "title": "Enriching amnestic mild cognitive impairment populations for clinical trials: optimal combination of biomarkers to predict conversion to dementia.", "content": "Enriching amnestic mild cognitive impairment populations for clinical trials: optimal combination of biomarkers to predict conversion to dementia. The goal of this study was to identify the optimal combination of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers to predict conversion from amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia within two years, for enriching clinical trial populations. Data from 63 subjects in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative aMCI cohort who had MRI and FDG-PET imaging along with CSF data at baseline and at least two years clinical follow-up were used. A Bayesian classification method was used to determine which combination of 31 variables (MRI, FDG-PET, CSF measurements, apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype, and cognitive scores) provided the most accurate prediction of aMCI to AD conversion. The cost and time trade-offs for the use of these biomarkers as inclusion criteria in clinical trials were evaluated. Using the combination of all biomarkers, ApoE genotype, and cognitive scores, we achieved an accuracy of 81% in predicting aMCI to AD conversion. With only ApoE genotype and cognitive scores, the prediction accuracy decreased to 62%. By comparing individual modalities, we found that MRI measures had the best predictive power (accuracy = 78%), followed by ApoE, FDG-PET, CSF, and the Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale. The combination of biomarkers from different modalities, measuring complementary aspects of AD pathology, provided the most accurate prediction of aMCI to AD conversion within two years. This was predominantly driven by MRI measures, which emerged as the single most powerful modality. Overall, the combination of MRI, ApoE, and cognitive scores provided the best trade-off between cost and time compared with other biomarker combinations for patient recruitment in clinical trial."}
{"id": "22795494", "title": "Comparison of diffusion-weighted MRI with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT and electroencephalography in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Comparison of diffusion-weighted MRI with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT and electroencephalography in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT (18F-FDG PET/CT) scanning may be a useful tool for early diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD), as it may reveal lowered cellular glucose transport and metabolism in the cortex, cerebellum and basal ganglia. The aim of the present study was to compare the findings from PET/CT, MRI and electroencephalography (EEG) for patients with sCJD, to explore whether typical sites or reliable patterns of regional metabolic change could be found and to evaluate the results of diagnostic imaging in the light of clinical symptomatology. Five patients with biopsy-confirmed sCJD and nine with probable sCJD (aged 36-68 years) were evaluated using PET/CT, diffusion-weighted (DW)-MRI and EEG. In 13 of the 14 patients (92.86%), PET/CT imaging detected extra regions with abnormalities in addition to the hyperintense areas shown with DW-MRI. Two patients with no abnormal DW-MRI findings in the basal ganglia had bilateral extrapyramidal signs accompanied by basal ganglia hypometabolism on PET. Eight patients (57.14%) had decreased FDG uptake in the thalamic nuclei on PET scans; however, DW-MRI did not identify corresponding hyperintense changes in the thalamic nuclei. In 11 patients (78.57%), DW-MRI revealed more regions with abnormalities than EEG, and 10 patients (71.43%) had DW-MRI abnormalities in the thalamic nuclei and basal ganglia that EEG was unable to detect. There was a high level of correspondence among the PET/CT, DW-MRI and EEG results, with PET revealing more abnormal regions than the other imaging modalities. In the absence of neuropathological findings, FDG-PET could improve the accuracy of sCJD diagnosis when combined with DW-MRI and EEG, particularly for differentiating sCJD from paraneoplastic syndromes. Our results suggest that PET/CT is able to detect sCJD at an earlier stage and with greater sensitivity than DW-MRI."}
{"id": "22777857", "title": "Correlation between neuropsychological tests and hypoperfusion in MCI patients: anatomical labeling using xjView and Talairach Daemon software.", "content": "Correlation between neuropsychological tests and hypoperfusion in MCI patients: anatomical labeling using xjView and Talairach Daemon software. Statistical analysis of brain perfusion SPECT images has shown mild to severe abnormalities, consistent with cortical dysfunctions in the brain. Recently, functional brain imaging such as fMRI, PET and SPECT is increasingly used for diagnosis of MCI. In this study, we calculate the correlation with perfusion of brain SPECT and neuropsychological test scores of patients by SPM analysis to evaluate the relationship with cerebral hypoperfusion and cognitive dysfunction in MCI patients. Anatomical labeling was performed automatically using the Talairach Daemon (TD) and xjView. Ninety-three patients (mean age 67.2 \u00b1 7.42 years; 59 women and 34 men) with MCI were selected and examined by the comprehensive neuropsychological test. Tc-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT images were acquired on the patients using a two-head gamma camera. We analyzed the brain image of MCI patients by SPM8 software, and observed the anatomical correlated region, between the neuropsychological tests and cerebral hypoperfusion. The SPM8 tool provided correlation between neuropsychological score and brain perfusion by simple regression method. The neuropsychological test included attention, language function, visuospatial function, memory, frontal executive function, depression score and general cognitive function. Percentage of voxels with correlated area to the whole brain was calculated and the values by Rey complex figure test (CFT) copy score, MMSE score, Seoul verbal learning test (SVLT) immediate recall score and Rey CFT delayed recall score were 15.3, 12.33, 10.59 and 8.45 %, respectively. Rey CFT copy score was correlated with perfusion in the left middle temporal gyrus (BA 21), right inferior frontal gyrus (BA 45), right lingual gyrus, left lingual gyrus (BA 18), right postcentral gyrus (BA 40), right cingulate gyrus (BA 31) and left thalamus (pulvinar) with p < 0.01 FDR. The correlation related to MMSE included left parahippocampal gyrus, right fusiform gyrus and right middle frontal gyrus (BA 46). SVLT immediate recall score was correlated with left superior temporal gyrus and Rey CFT delayed recall score was correlated with left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47), right inferior frontal gyrus, and left lentiform nucleus. Visuospatial and general cognitive dysfunctions in the patients with MCI were most correlated with cerebral hypoperfusion. Rey CFT copy and MMSE scores were more strongly correlated with blood perfusion of the brain than with other neuropsychological test scores. xjView was a useful tool to find out the anatomical name of the selected voxel or clusters and to display the cluster's anatomical information and list all cluster information and could be used instead of TD Client."}
{"id": "22700814", "title": "Low PiB PET retention in presence of pathologic CSF biomarkers in Arctic APP mutation carriers.", "content": "Low PiB PET retention in presence of pathologic CSF biomarkers in Arctic APP mutation carriers. To investigate the particular pathology of the Arctic APP (APParc) early-onset familial Alzheimer disease (eoFAD) mutation for the first time in vivo with PET in comparison with other eoFAD mutations and sporadic Alzheimer disease (sAD). We examined 2 APParc mutation carriers together with 5 noncarrier siblings cross-sectionally with (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET, as well as MRI, CSF biomarkers, and neuropsychological tests. Likewise, we examined 7 patients with sAD, 1 carrier of a presenilin 1 (PSEN1) mutation, 1 carrier of the Swedish APP (APPswe) mutation, and 7 healthy controls (HCs). Cortical PiB retention was very low in the APParc mutation carriers while cerebral glucose metabolism and CSF levels of A\u03b2(1-42), total and phosphorylated tau were clearly pathologic. This was in contrast to the PSEN1 and APPswe mutation carriers revealing high PiB retention in the cortex and the striatum in combination with abnormal glucose metabolism and CSF biomarkers, and the patients with sAD who showed typically high cortical PiB retention and pathologic CSF levels as well as decreased glucose metabolism when compared with HCs. The lack of fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) as visualized by PiB PET in APParc mutation carriers suggests, given the reduced glucose metabolism and levels of A\u03b2(1-42) in CSF, that other forms of A\u03b2 such as oligomers and protofibrils are important for the pathologic processes leading to clinical Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "22700745", "title": "Whither the hippocampus? FDG-PET hippocampal hypometabolism in Alzheimer disease revisited.", "content": "Whither the hippocampus? FDG-PET hippocampal hypometabolism in Alzheimer disease revisited. The hippocampus is a widely recognized area of early change in AD, yet voxelwise analyses of FDG-PET activity differences between AD and CN controls have consistently failed to identify hippocampal hypometabolism. In this article, we propose a high-dimensional PET-specific analysis framework to determine whether important hippocampal metabolic FDG-PET activity differences between patients with AD and CN subjects are embedded in the Jacobian information generated during spatial normalization. Resting FDG-PET data were obtained from 102 CN and 92 participants with AD from the ADNI data base. A PET-study-specific template was constructed using symmetric diffeomorphic registration. Spatially normalized raw FDG maps, Jacobian determinant maps, and modulated maps were generated for all subjects. Statistical parametric mapping and tensor-based morphometry were performed, comparing patients with AD with CN subjects. Whole-brain spatially normalized raw FDG maps demonstrated robust hypometabolism in cingulate gyrus and bilateral parietal areas. No hippocampal differences were present, except on ROI-based analyses with a hippocampal mask. Whole-brain modulated maps demonstrated robust bilateral hippocampal hypometabolism, and some hypometabolism in the posterior cingulate. Tensor-based morphometry demonstrated robust hippocampal differences only. These results demonstrate that hippocampal metabolic differences are embedded in the Jacobian information from the spatial normalization procedure. We introduce a voxelwise PET-specific analysis framework based on the use of a PET-population-specific template, high-dimensional symmetric diffeomorphic normalization, and the use of Jacobian information, which can provide substantially increased statistical power and an order of magnitude decrease in imaging costs."}
{"id": "22694975", "title": "Mitochondria and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Mitochondria and Alzheimer's disease. Reductions in cerebral metabolism sufficient to impair cognition in normal individuals also occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). FDG PET studies have shown that decreased glucose metabolism in AD precedes clinical diagnosis and the degree of clinical disability in AD correlates closely to the magnitude of the reduction in brain metabolism. This suggests that the clinical deterioration and metabolic impairment in AD are related closely. Diminished metabolism can lead to the hyperphosphorylation of tau and increased production of amyloid beta peptide, hallmarks of AD. These observations suggest also that early mitochondrially therapeutic interventions may be an important target in delaying AD progression in elderly individuals and in treating AD patients."}
{"id": "22691528", "title": "A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease mimicking corticobasal degeneration: FDG PET, SPECT, and MRI findings.", "content": "A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease mimicking corticobasal degeneration: FDG PET, SPECT, and MRI findings. A 58-year-old woman was admitted with left-sided decreased sensation, ataxia, and left \"alien\" hand and leg. Brain SPECT and PET showed hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in the right frontoparietal cortices, including the primary sensorimotor cortex, and temporal cortex. MRI demonstrated matching-restricted diffusion and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery hyperintensity. Corticobasal degeneration was suspected initially. The patient declined rapidly, and the diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) was made based on cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers. CJD can present with symptoms similar to other disorders. This case illustrates that CJD can mimic a rare neurodegenerative disorder, cortico-basal degeneration, both clinically and by neuroimaging."}
{"id": "22691524", "title": "Sequential FDG PET and MRI findings in a case of human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Sequential FDG PET and MRI findings in a case of human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis. A 50-year-old woman developed a human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis characterized by memory loss and somnolence, 3 weeks after a cord blood-derived stem cell transplantation. Sequential scalp electroencephalogram failed to detect seizure activity. Cerebrospinal fluid polymerase chain reaction assay demonstrated human herpes virus 6 deoxyribonucleic acid (positive, 3.74 log). Acute phase FDG PET imaging showed bilateral intense FDG uptake in both hippocampi and amygdalae. After antiviral treatment (gancyclovir followed by foscarnet), neurologic symptoms disappear gradually. Late phase FDG PET imaging showed a regression in FDG uptake representing hippocampal hypometabolism because of hippocampal sclerosis."}
{"id": "22691507", "title": "Apparent relative hypermetabolism of selective brain areas in Huntington disease and importance of reference region for analysis.", "content": "Apparent relative hypermetabolism of selective brain areas in Huntington disease and importance of reference region for analysis. We investigated the pattern of reduced and increased metabolism in symptomatic Huntington chorea (HD) patients and assessed the influence of intensity normalization method. FDG brain PET was performed in 11 manifest HD patients and 11 age-matched controls. Images underwent statistical parametric mapping analysis after global normalization or with white matter or pons as reference region. Region of interest analysis of FDG uptake ratios was also performed using total region or white matter as reference. Correlation between regional uptake ratios to that of the caudate was evaluated by linear regression analysis. Although statistical parametric mapping analysis identified striatal hypometabolism and thalamic hypermetabolism in HD patients with all methods, substantially different FDG uptake patterns were shown depending on the method of intensity normalization. Global normalization displayed large areas of relative normalized hypermetabolism across the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. With white matter as reference, relative normalized hypermetabolism was observed in the thalamus and a much more limited area of the cortex. With pons as reference, relative normalized hypermetabolism was largely confined to the thalamus and a small area of the cerebellum. These results demonstrate apparent relative normalized hypermetabolism in selective brain regions in manifest HD patients. Furthermore, the choice of reference region for intensity normalization is critical for accurate monitoring of this metabolic change with FDG PET."}
{"id": "22684530", "title": "18F-labelled CCR1-receptor antagonist is not suitable for imaging of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "18F-labelled CCR1-receptor antagonist is not suitable for imaging of Alzheimer's disease. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) relies on typical alterations of brain glucose metabolism which are, however, not disease specific. Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging has not entered clinical routine yet. Post mortem histological specimen of brain tissue from AD patients revealed enhanced expression of the chemotactic cytocine receptor 1 (CCR1). CCR1-antagonist ZK811460 was labeled with fluorine-18 to explore its possible use as specific diagnostic tool in AD. Tracer characterization comprising PET imaging of brain and metabolite analysis was performed in AD patients and controls. Neither qualitative evaluation nor quantitative compartment analysis of PET data did show any enhanced binding of the 18F-labeled CCR1-antagonist in the brain of AD patients or controls. 18F-ZK811460 did not fulfill the expectation as diagnostic tracer in PET imaging of AD."}
{"id": "22677678", "title": "[The role of brain glucose metabolism in the development of cognitive dysfunctions in patients with remitting and secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis].", "content": "[The role of brain glucose metabolism in the development of cognitive dysfunctions in patients with remitting and secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis]. To study mechanisms of development of cognitive dysfunctions in multiple sclerosis (MS), brain glucose metabolism has been investigated using PET method. We have studied 61 patients with different types of MS course. Correlations between cognitive dysfunctions and regional glucose metabolic rate were revealed. The authors suggest that metabolic dysfunctions of the grey matter play the important role in the pathogenesis of cognitive disturbances in MS."}
{"id": "22665450", "title": "Distinct brain perfusion pattern associated with CSF biomarkers profile in primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Distinct brain perfusion pattern associated with CSF biomarkers profile in primary progressive aphasia. A new classification of primary progressive aphasia (PPA) was recently proposed to differentiate between non-fluent aphasia (NF-PPA), semantic variant of PPA (S-PPA) and logopenic aphasia (LPA) by their phenotypic presentations. CSF biomarkers (BM) may differentiate PPA with atypical Alzheimer's disease (AD) that presents with LPA from PPA with frontotemporal lobe degeneration that presents with either NF-PPA or S-PPA. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used to investigate brain hypoperfusion differences among PPA subtypes according to their CSF AD profiles. 34 PPA patients underwent lumbar puncture and brain perfusion SPECT. PPA patients were classified into two subgroups according to the A\u03b2(42):tau ratio: PPA BM positive (with an AD CSF profile) and PPA BM negative (not having an AD CSF profile). The biological classification was made while blind to the phenotypical presentation. The brain perfusion profiles of the PPA subgroups were compared with those of 24 healthy subjects. PPA BM positive patients had left-side predominant hypoperfusion in the temporoparietal cortex that extended to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and perisylvian region while PPA BM negative patients had hypoperfusion that was predominant in the temporal poles (p<10(-4) corrected). Distinct hypoperfusion patterns in PPA BM positive and PPA BM negative patients were observed, similar to those that have been described for S-PPA and LPA. These results support using CSF biomarkers to classify PPA."}
{"id": "22653791", "title": "PET and MRI reveal early evidence of neurodegeneration in spinocerebellar ataxia type 17.", "content": "PET and MRI reveal early evidence of neurodegeneration in spinocerebellar ataxia type 17. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 (SCA17) is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder presenting with a variable phenotype including ataxia, dystonia, chorea, and parkinsonism, as well as cognitive impairment. We evaluated morphologic and functional imaging characteristics to elucidate evidence of neurodegeneration in SCA17, even in the presymptomatic stage of the disease. Nine individuals of 3 large SCA17 pedigrees, including 4 presymptomatic mutation carriers, underwent cranial 3-dimensional MRI volumetry, as well as multitracer PET with (18)F-FDG, (11)C-d-threo-methylphenidate, and (11)C-raclopride. Healthy subjects showing no signs of a neurologic or psychiatric disease served as controls. MRI volumetry revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and caudate nucleus in manifesting patients (P = 0.04 and 0.05, respectively) and in presymptomatic mutation carriers (P = 0.04 and 0.01, respectively). PET demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism in the striatum, as well as in the cuneus, cingulum, and parietal lobe, in all SCA17 patients and presymptomatic mutation carriers. In addition, PET was closely correlated with motor performance as assessed by the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (P = 0.037) and Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (P = 0.05) and with cognitive function as assessed by the Mini-Mental Status Examination (P = 0.037). Furthermore, (11)C-raclopride PET showed impairment of the postsynaptic dopaminergic compartment of the putamen and caudate nucleus not only in manifest SCA17 patients (P = 0.04 and 0.008, respectively) but also in yet-unaffected mutation carriers (P = 0.05 and 0.05, respectively). The degree of postsynaptic dopaminergic dysfunction was associated with impairment of motor performance. In contrast, significant presynaptic dopaminergic deficits assessed with (11)C-d-threo-methylphenidate PET were not detected. MRI volumetry, as well as (11)C-raclopride and (18)F-FDG PET, reveal neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration even in the presymptomatic stage and may serve as markers for disease activity in upcoming interventional trials on SCA17."}
{"id": "22633443", "title": "Long-term neurotoxic effects of dimethylamine borane intoxication.", "content": "Long-term neurotoxic effects of dimethylamine borane intoxication. To investigate the long-term neurotoxic effects in a patient with acute dimethylamine borane (DMAB) intoxication. A 38-year-old man, working in a semiconductor factory, with acute DMAB intoxication presented with confusion, and drowsiness, followed by cognitive impairments and motor-predominant axonal polyneuropathy. We performed serial neurobehavioral assessments and functional neuroimaging studies, including brain (99m)Tc-TRODAT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and brain positron emission tomography (PET) scan to monitor the long-term central nervous system (CNS) effects of DMAB intoxication. Neurobehavioral tests revealed a persistent impairment in episodic memory of visual retention semantic category retrieval and working memory of digit span (backward). Brain (99m)Tc-TRODAT SPECT scan showed a lower radioactivity uptake in the left striatum and F-18 FDG PET scan revealed a relatively decreased cerebral metabolism at the anterior cingulate gyrus and both frontal regions. Follow-up neurobehavioral tests showed that the cognitive improvements were mainly documented in intelligence, attention function, conceptual shift, perceptual motor speed, verbal learning and working memory but were limited in visual memory and executive functions. Patients with acute DMAB intoxication may have a long-lasting CNS toxicity on the cognitive dysfunction, parkinsonism, and an impaired metabolic activity of the brain. Clinical improvements may sustain during the long-term follow-up period."}
{"id": "22628162", "title": "Regional dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in healthy elderly, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a voxelwise PiB-PET longitudinal study.", "content": "Regional dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in healthy elderly, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a voxelwise PiB-PET longitudinal study. Amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in Alzheimer's disease is thought to start while individuals are still cognitively unimpaired and it is hypothesized that after an early phase of fast accumulation, a plateau is reached by the time of cognitive decline. However, few longitudinal Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography studies have tested this hypothesis, and with conflicting results. The purpose of this work is to further our understanding of the dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in a large longitudinal cohort. A total of 32 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 49 subjects with mild cognitive impairment and 103 healthy controls underwent two Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography scans 18 months apart. For each participant, a parametric map of Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography rate of change was created [(follow-up scan\u2009-\u2009baseline scan)/follow-up duration] and entered in a voxelwise three-way analysis of covariance, with clinical status (healthy controls, mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease), disease progression (clinical conversion from healthy controls to mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease, or from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease) and Pittsburgh compound B status (positive versus negative) as independent factors. Only a significant effect of the Pittsburgh compound B status was found: both Pittsburgh compound B-positive and -negative subjects showed a significant increase in amyloid-\u03b2 deposition, with this increase being significantly higher in Pittsburgh compound B-positive individuals. This finding suggests either that Pittsburgh compound B-negative individuals have slower rates of amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation than positive, or that the proportion of individuals showing significant increase in amyloid-\u03b2 deposition, termed 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators', is higher within the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group than within the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group. The bimodal distribution of the individual rates of neocortical amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation observed support the existence of 'Pittsburgh compound B non-accumulators' and 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators' and different clustering analyses led to a consistent threshold to separate these two subgroups (0.014-0.022 standardized uptake value ratio(pons)/year). The voxelwise three-way analysis of covariance was thus recomputed with the 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators' only and the results were almost unchanged, with the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group showing higher accumulation than the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group. Finally, a significant negative correlation was found between Pittsburgh compound B rate of change and Pittsburgh compound B baseline burden, but only in the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group (r=\u2009-0.24; P=0.025). Higher rates of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition are associated with higher amyloid-\u03b2 burden suggesting that amyloid-\u03b2 deposition does not reach a plateau when cognitive impairments manifest but is instead an ongoing process present even at the Alzheimer's disease stage. amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation also seems to slow down at the latest stages of the process, i.e. in participants with the highest amyloid burden. Furthermore, this study identified the existence of Pittsburgh compound 'accumulators' and 'non-accumulators', notably within the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group, which may be a relevant concept for future studies."}
{"id": "22610458", "title": "Arterial spin labeling MRI: an emerging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions.", "content": "Arterial spin labeling MRI: an emerging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions. The search for biomarkers that detect and track disease progression in early Alzheimer's disease has been a major pursuit for two decades. Functional measures reflecting alterations of synaptic activity associated with neuronal dysfunction have displayed promise for following disease course in early stages. Although fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) and blood oxygen level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) have been studied extensively for this purpose, this review will discuss the emergence and potential role of arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI, which measures cerebral blood flow (CBF), in neurodegeneration. Several recent studies have explored ASL MRI in early and prodromal Alzheimer's disease and have reported areas of hypoperfusion that overlap considerably with hypometabolism frequently reported with FDG PET. However, some studies have also noted increased regional CBF of patients with prodromal and early stage clinical Alzheimer's disease, which may have implications for pathophysiology and the role of compensatory responses to neurodegeneration. Additionally, a few recent studies have begun to use this modality to explore the role of cerebrovascular factors in cognitive decline and the relationship to Alzheimer's disease. ASL MRI is just beginning to be applied more widely to various neurodegenerative conditions. Initial data suggest that this methodology may provide similar information to FDG PET, but with several advantages in the ease of acquisition and expense. Additional applications of this modality, including task-related studies and testing of pharmacological effects, are underexplored, but are potentially of significant value in understanding disease-related functional changes and treatment effects."}
{"id": "22596272", "title": "The brain-derived neurotrophic factor Val66Met polymorphism is associated with reduced hippocampus perfusion in frontotemporal lobar degeneration.", "content": "The brain-derived neurotrophic factor Val66Met polymorphism is associated with reduced hippocampus perfusion in frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes several functions in neurons and modulates neurotransmissions, especially in hippocampal regions. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) has a strong genetic background, but genetic risk factors associated with sporadic disease are unknown. Hippocampal involvement is frequently observed in FTLD. The aims of this study were: i) to evaluate if BDNF genetic variations are associated with an increased risk of developing FTLD; and ii) to assess the neuroimaging profiles associated with BDNF polymorphisms. Ninety-one FTLD patients who underwent SPECT imaging and blood sampling entered the study, and clinical, cognitive, and behavioral examinations were performed. A larger group of FTLD patients (n = 194) and controls (n = 396; 162 healthy subjects and 234 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients) underwent genetic analyses, considering BDNF polymorphisms (Val66Met, rs2049045 C/G, G11757C). A significant different distribution of G11757C genotype in FTLD (GG 53.1%, GC 42.8%, CC 4.1%) compared to controls (G/G 55.6%, G/C 34.6%, C/C 9.8%, p = 0.020) was found. No other significant differences in genotype and allele distributions were detected. The effect of BDNF polymorphisms on brain perfusion was analyzed. BDNF Val66Met A* carriers (A/A or G/A) showed a significant greater hypoperfusion parahippocampal regions as compared to G/G carriers (p < 0.005). No effect of G11757C polymorphism on brain perfusion was found. rs2049045 C/G was not considered as in linkage disequilibrium with Val66Met polymorphism. BDNF Val66Met polymorphism may play a role as a modulator of the FTLD expression and may drive a selective damage in specific brain region affected by the disease."}
{"id": "22577238", "title": "Initial clinical comparison of 18F-florbetapir and 18F-FDG PET in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls.", "content": "Initial clinical comparison of 18F-florbetapir and 18F-FDG PET in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls. The purpose of this study was to determine how clinical interpretations of the (18)F-amyloid tracer florbetapir compares diagnostically with (18)F-FDG PET when evaluating patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and controls. Nineteen patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD and 21 elderly controls were evaluated with both (18)F-florbetapir and (18)F-FDG PET scans. Scans were interpreted together by 2 expert readers masked to any case information and were assessed for tracer binding patterns consistent with AD. The criteria for interpreting the (18)F-florbetapir scan as positive for AD was the presence of binding in the cortical regions relative to the cerebellum. (18)F-FDG PET scans were interpreted as positive if they displayed the classic pattern of hypometabolism in the temporoparietal regions. Scans were interpreted as either positive or negative for AD. In addition, a relative scoring system was used to assess the degree of either hypometabolism or amyloid binding in specified regions. The metabolism and amyloid binding scores for each region were compared across subjects. An overall ratio was calculated on the basis of values in regions expected to be affected by AD and those not expected to be affected. The metabolic ratio and amyloid ratio were then correlated with the mini-mental status examination (MMSE) score. The sensitivity and specificity, compared with the clinical diagnosis of AD or controls, for the (18)F-florbetapir scans were 95% and 95%, respectively, and for the (18)F-FDG scans 89% and 86%, respectively. When a comparison with MMSE scores was made, (18)F-FDG significantly correlated with MMSE when both controls and AD patients were included (r = 0.79, P < 0.0001) and in AD patients alone (r = 0.70, P = 0.001). The (18)F-florbetapir scores significantly correlated with MMSE scores only when both controls and AD patients were included (r = 0.62, P < 0.001) but not in the AD group alone (r = 0.12, P = 0.66). Overall, both scans performed well in detecting AD in patients with known clinical AD. Both scans correlated well with cognitive status as determined by MMSE when the entire cohort of controls and AD patients was evaluated. However, only the (18)F-FDG scans correlated with cognitive status when AD patients were evaluated separately."}
{"id": "22572706", "title": "Amyloid deposition after cerebral hypoperfusion: evidenced on [(18)F]AV-45 positron emission tomography.", "content": "Amyloid deposition after cerebral hypoperfusion: evidenced on [(18)F]AV-45 positron emission tomography. Animal studies have shown that cerebral hypoperfusion may be associated with amyloid plaque accumulation. Amyloid plaque is known to be associated with dementia and [(18)F]AV-45 is a positron emission tomography (PET) ligand that binds to extracelluar plaques. We hypothesized that demented patients with cerebral hypoperfusion may have increased [(18)F]AV-45 uptake. Five demented patients with cerebral hypoperfusion due to unilateral carotid artery stenosis (CAS) were examined with [(18)F]AV-45 PET, and the results were compared with six elderly controls. The standard uptake value ratio (SUVR) of each region of interest (ROI) was created using whole cerebellum as the reference region. All subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for obtaining structural information. Patients with dementia and unilateral CAS had a higher global [(18)F]AV-45 SUVR (1.34 \u00b1 0.06) as compared with controls (1.10 \u00b1 0.04, p=0.0043), especially over the frontal, temporal, precuneus, anterior cingulate and occipital regions. The statistical distribution maps revealed a significantly increased [(18)F]AV-45 SUVR in the medial frontal, caudate, thalamus, posterior cingulate, occipital and middle and superior temporal regions ipsilateral to the side of CAS (p<0.01). The present study found that cerebral [(18)F]AV-45 binding is increased in demented patients with CAS, and its distribution is lateralized to the CAS side, suggesting that amyloid-related dementia may occur under cerebral hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "22566505", "title": "Increased cerebral metabolism after 1 year of deep brain stimulation in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Increased cerebral metabolism after 1 year of deep brain stimulation in Alzheimer disease. The importance of developing unique, neural circuitry-based treatments for the cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms of Alzheimer disease (AD) was the impetus for a phase I study of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients with AD that targeted the fornix. To test the hypotheses that DBS would increase cerebral glucose metabolism in cortical and hippocampal circuits and that increased metabolism would be correlated with better clinical outcomes. Open-label trial. Academic medical center. A total of 5 patients with mild, probable AD (1 woman and 4 men, with a mean [SD] age of 62.6 [4.2] years). Deep brain stimulation of the fornix. All patients underwent clinical follow-up and high-resolution positron emission tomography studies of cerebral glucose metabolism after 1 year of DBS. Functional connectivity analyses revealed that 1 year of DBS increased cerebral glucose metabolism in 2 orthogonal networks: a frontal-temporal-parietal-striatal-thalamic network and a frontal-temporal-parietal-occipital-hippocampal network. In similar cortical regions, higher baseline metabolism prior to DBS and increased metabolism after 1 year of DBS were correlated with better outcomes in global cognition, memory, and quality of life. Increased connectivity after 1 year of DBS is observed, which is in contrast to the decreased connectivity observed over the course of AD. The persistent cortical metabolic increases after 1 year of DBS were associated with better clinical outcomes in this patient sample and are greater in magnitude and more extensive in the effects on cortical circuitry compared with the effects reported for pharmacotherapy over 1 year in AD."}
{"id": "22556189", "title": "Amyloid burden and metabolic function in early-onset Alzheimer's disease: parietal lobe involvement.", "content": "Amyloid burden and metabolic function in early-onset Alzheimer's disease: parietal lobe involvement. Alzheimer's disease with early onset often presents with a distinct cognitive profile, potentially reflecting a different distribution of underlying neuropathology. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between age and both in vivo fibrillary amyloid deposition and glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Dynamic [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B (90 min) and static [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (15 min) scans were obtained in 100 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 healthy controls. Parametric non-displaceable binding potential images of [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B and standardized uptake value ratio images of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose were generated using cerebellar grey matter as reference tissue. Nine [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B-negative patients were excluded. The remaining patients were categorized into younger (n=45, age: 56 \u00b1 4 years) and older (n=46, age: 69 \u00b1 5 years) groups, based on the median age (62 years) at time of diagnosis. Younger patients showed more severe impairment on visuo-spatial function, attention and executive function composite scores (P<0.05), while we found a trend towards poorer memory performance for older patients (P=0.11). Differences between groups were assessed using a general linear model with repeated measures (gender adjusted) with age as between subjects factor, region (frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital and posterior cingulate cortices) as within subjects factor and [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding/[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake as dependent variables. There was no main effect of age for [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B or [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, suggesting that overall, the extent of amyloid deposition or glucose hypometabolism did not differ between groups. Regional distributions of [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (both P for interaction <0.05) differed between groups, however, largely due to increased [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding and decreased [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the parietal cortex of younger patients (both P<0.05). Linear regression analyses showed negative associations between visuo-spatial functioning and parietal [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding for younger patients (standardized \u03b2: -0.37) and between visuo-spatial functioning and occipital binding for older patients (standardized \u03b2: -0.39). For [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, associations were found between parietal uptake with visuo-spatial (standardized \u03b2: 0.55), attention (standardized \u03b2: 0.39) and executive functioning (standardized \u03b2: 0.37) in younger patients, and between posterior cingulate uptake and memory in older patients (standardized \u03b2: 0.41, all P<0.05). These in vivo findings suggest that clinical differences between younger and older patients with Alzheimer's disease are not restricted to topographical differentiation in downstream processes but may originate from distinctive distributions of early upstream events. As such, increased amyloid burden, together with metabolic dysfunction, in the parietal lobe of younger patients with Alzheimer's disease may contribute to the distinct cognitive profile in these patients."}
{"id": "22551733", "title": "Short-term clinical outcomes for stages of NIA-AA preclinical Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Short-term clinical outcomes for stages of NIA-AA preclinical Alzheimer disease. Recommendations for the diagnosis of preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD) have been formulated by a workgroup of the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association. Three stages of preclinical AD were described. Stage 1 is characterized by abnormal levels of \u03b2-amyloid. Stage 2 represents abnormal levels of \u03b2-amyloid and evidence of brain neurodegeneration. Stage 3 includes the features of stage 2 plus subtle cognitive changes. Stage 0, not explicitly defined in the criteria, represents subjects with normal biomarkers and normal cognition. The ability of the recommended criteria to predict progression to cognitive impairment is the crux of their validity. Using previously developed operational definitions of the 3 stages of preclinical AD, we examined the outcomes of subjects from the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging diagnosed as cognitively normal who underwent brain MRI or [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose and Pittsburgh compound B PET, had global cognitive test scores, and were followed for at least 1 year. Of the 296 initially normal subjects, 31 (10%) progressed to a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia (27 amnestic MCI, 2 nonamnestic MCI, and 2 non-AD dementias) within 1 year. The proportion of subjects who progressed to MCI or dementia increased with advancing stage (stage 0, 5%; stage 1, 11%; stage 2, 21%; stage 3, 43%; test for trend, p < 0.001). Despite the short follow-up period, our operationalization of the new preclinical AD recommendations confirmed that advancing preclinical stage led to higher proportions of subjects who progressed to MCI or dementia."}
{"id": "22542623", "title": "Deficient Rab11 activity underlies glucose hypometabolism in primary neurons of Huntington's disease mice.", "content": "Deficient Rab11 activity underlies glucose hypometabolism in primary neurons of Huntington's disease mice. Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the huntingtin gene. Positron emission tomography studies have revealed a decline in glucose metabolism in the brain of patients with HD by a mechanism that has not been established. We examined glucose utilization in embryonic primary cortical neurons of wild-type (WT) and HD knock-in mice, which have 140 CAG repeats inserted in the endogenous mouse huntingtin gene (HD(140Q/140Q)). Primary HD(140Q/140Q) cortical neurons took up significantly less glucose than did WT neurons. Expression of permanently inactive and permanently active forms of Rab11 correspondingly altered glucose uptake in WT neurons, suggesting that normal activity of Rab11 is needed for neuronal uptake of glucose. It is known that Rab11 activity is diminished in HD(140Q/140Q) neurons. Expression of dominant active Rab11 to enhance the activity of Rab11 normalized glucose uptake in HD(140Q/140Q) neurons. These results suggest that deficient activity of Rab11 is a novel mechanism for glucose hypometabolism in HD."}
{"id": "22531416", "title": "Autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease with early frontal lobe involvement associated with the Met239Ile mutation of Presenilin 2 gene.", "content": "Autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease with early frontal lobe involvement associated with the Met239Ile mutation of Presenilin 2 gene. Mutations in the Presenilin 2 gene (PSEN2) represent the less frequent genetic cause of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Only eight PSEN2 mutations, reported in approximately 27 families, satisfied strict criteria of pathogenicity. We reported a patient with early-onset FAD and the PSEN2 p.Met239Ile mutation, presenting with severe executive dysfunction and myoclonic tremor, associated with memory loss. Brain SPECT study showed an early hypoperfusion of the frontal cortex. We confirmed the pathogenicity of PSEN2 p.Met239Ile mutation and its heterogeneous phenotypic expression. The modulating effect of the Apolipoprotein E and Prion Protein gene polymorphisms on the phenotypic variability was not confirmed."}
{"id": "22526956", "title": "18F-FDG PET uptake in the pre-Huntington disease caudate affects the time-to-onset independently of CAG expansion size.", "content": "18F-FDG PET uptake in the pre-Huntington disease caudate affects the time-to-onset independently of CAG expansion size. To test in a longitudinal follow-up study whether basal glucose metabolism in subjects with a genetic risk of Huntington disease (HD) may influence the onset of manifest symptoms. The study group comprised 43 presymptomatic (preHD) subjects carrying the HD mutation. They underwent a (18)F-FDG PET scan and were prospectively followed-up for at least 5 years using the unified HD rating scale to detect clinical changes. Multiple regression analysis included subject's age, CAG mutation size and glucose uptake as variables in a model to predict age at onset. Of the 43 preHD subjects who manifested motor symptoms, suggestive of HD, after 5 years from the PET scan, 26 showed a mean brain glucose uptake below the cut-off of 1.0493 in the caudate, significantly lower than the 17 preHD subjects who remained symptom-free (P < 0.0001). This difference was independent of mutation size. Measurement of brain glucose uptake improved the CAG repeat number and age-based model for predicting age at onset by 37 %. A reduced level of glucose metabolism in the brain caudate may represent a predisposing factor that contributes to the age at onset of HD in preHD subjects, in addition to the mutation size."}
{"id": "22510256", "title": "Resting state FDG-PET functional connectivity as an early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease using conjoint univariate and independent component analyses.", "content": "Resting state FDG-PET functional connectivity as an early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease using conjoint univariate and independent component analyses. Imaging cerebral glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography (PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has allowed for improved characterisation of this pathology. Such patterns are typically analysed using either univariate or multivariate statistical techniques. In this work we combined voxel-based group analysis and independent component analysis to extract differential characteristic patterns from PET data of glucose metabolism in a large cohort of normal elderly controls and patients with AD. The patterns were used in conjunction with a support vector machine to discriminate between subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at risk or not of converting to AD. The method was applied to baseline fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG)-PET images of subjects from the ADNI database. Our approach achieved improved early detection and differentiation of typical versus pathological metabolic patterns in the MCI population, reaching 80% accuracy (85% sensitivity and 75% specificity) when using selected regions. The method has the potential to assist in the advance diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, and to identify early in the development of the disease those individuals at high risk of rapid cognitive decline who could be candidates for new therapeutic approaches."}
{"id": "22488240", "title": "An operational approach to National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease.", "content": "An operational approach to National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease. A workgroup commissioned by the Alzheimer's Association (AA) and the National Institute on Aging (NIA) recently published research criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD). We performed a preliminary assessment of these guidelines. We employed Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as our biomarker of cerebral amyloidosis, and (18) fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging and hippocampal volume as biomarkers of neurodegeneration. A group of 42 clinically diagnosed AD subjects was used to create imaging biomarker cutpoints. A group of 450 cognitively normal (CN) subjects from a population-based sample was used to develop cognitive cutpoints and to assess population frequencies of the different preclinical AD stages using different cutpoint criteria. The new criteria subdivide the preclinical phase of AD into stages 1 to 3. To classify our CN subjects, 2 additional categories were needed. Stage 0 denotes subjects with normal AD biomarkers and no evidence of subtle cognitive impairment. Suspected non-AD pathophysiology (SNAP) denotes subjects with normal amyloid PET imaging, but abnormal neurodegeneration biomarker studies. At fixed cutpoints corresponding to 90% sensitivity for diagnosing AD and the 10th percentile of CN cognitive scores, 43% of our sample was classified as stage 0, 16% stage 1, 12 % stage 2, 3% stage 3, and 23% SNAP. This cross-sectional evaluation of the NIA-AA criteria for preclinical AD indicates that the 1-3 staging criteria coupled with stage 0 and SNAP categories classify 97% of CN subjects from a population-based sample, leaving only 3% unclassified. Future longitudinal validation of the criteria will be important."}
{"id": "22460159", "title": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders.", "content": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) may account for up to 30% of all dementia cases. The symptoms of DLB can be difficult to disentangle from other dementia subtypes, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD and DLB pathologies often overlap within individuals. Like DLB, Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) also shares common features with DLB. Currently, whether an individual is diagnosed with PDD or DLB depends solely on the timing of symptom onset. Early, accurate diagnosis is needed for optimal management and treatment. It is hoped that the development of existing and new Lewy body disorders biomarkers will facilitate more accurate diagnosis. Reduced dopamine transporter levels in DLB as shown with [123I]FP-CIT-SPECT currently appears to be the most reliable and valid biomarker, although other (predominantly imaging-based) methods also appear to have the high sensitivity and specificity required for a good biomarker. This includes (in DLB compared to AD) reduced cardiac 123I-MIBG uptake, occipital hypometabolism on FDG-PET and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on CT/MRI. Perfusion SPECT, cerebrospinal fluid protein levels (amyloid, tau and \u03b1-synuclein), electroencephalography, saccadic eye movement tracking and 11C-PiB amyloid imaging also hold promise as biomarkers in terms of differentiating DLB, AD, PDD and other neurodegenerative disorders, although findings are less consistent. Studies utilising a combination approach in which two or more potential biomarkers are compared seem to provide very good sensitivity and specificity. In general, longitudinal studies, pathological confirmation of diagnosis and the combined approach may hold the most promise for the identification of biomarkers."}
{"id": "22457741", "title": "Predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients using longitudinal and multimodal biomarkers.", "content": "Predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients using longitudinal and multimodal biomarkers. Accurate prediction of clinical changes of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, including both qualitative change (i.e., conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD)) and quantitative change (i.e., cognitive scores) at future time points, is important for early diagnosis of AD and for monitoring the disease progression. In this paper, we propose to predict future clinical changes of MCI patients by using both baseline and longitudinal multimodality data. To do this, we first develop a longitudinal feature selection method to jointly select brain regions across multiple time points for each modality. Specifically, for each time point, we train a sparse linear regression model by using the imaging data and the corresponding clinical scores, with an extra 'group regularization' to group the weights corresponding to the same brain region across multiple time points together and to allow for selection of brain regions based on the strength of multiple time points jointly. Then, to further reflect the longitudinal changes on the selected brain regions, we extract a set of longitudinal features from the original baseline and longitudinal data. Finally, we combine all features on the selected brain regions, from different modalities, for prediction by using our previously proposed multi-kernel SVM. We validate our method on 88 ADNI MCI subjects, with both MRI and FDG-PET data and the corresponding clinical scores (i.e., MMSE and ADAS-Cog) at 5 different time points. We first predict the clinical scores (MMSE and ADAS-Cog) at 24-month by using the multimodality data at previous time points, and then predict the conversion of MCI to AD by using the multimodality data at time points which are at least 6-month ahead of the conversion. The results on both sets of experiments show that our proposed method can achieve better performance in predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients than the conventional methods."}
{"id": "22441582", "title": "Longitudinal imaging of Alzheimer pathology using [11C]PIB, [18F]FDDNP and [18F]FDG PET.", "content": "Longitudinal imaging of Alzheimer pathology using [11C]PIB, [18F]FDDNP and [18F]FDG PET. [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP are PET tracers for in vivo detection of the neuropathology underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD). [(18)F]FDG is a glucose analogue and its uptake reflects metabolic activity. The purpose of this study was to examine longitudinal changes in these tracers in patients with AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and in healthy controls. Longitudinal, paired, dynamic [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP (90 min each) and static [(18)F]FDG (15 min) PET scans were obtained in 11 controls, 12 MCI patients and 8 AD patients. The mean interval between baseline and follow-up was 2.5 years (range 2.0-4.0 years). Parametric [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP images of binding potential (BP(ND)) and [(18)F]FDG standardized uptake value ratio (SUVr) images were generated. A significant increase in global cortical [(11)C]PIB BP(ND) was found in MCI patients, but no changes were observed in AD patients or controls. Subsequent regional analysis revealed that this increase in [(11)C]PIB BP(ND) in MCI patients was most prominent in the lateral temporal lobe (p < 0.05). For [(18)F]FDDNP, no changes in global BP(ND) were found. [(18)F]FDG uptake was reduced at follow-up in the AD group only, especially in frontal, parietal and lateral temporal lobes (all p < 0.01). Changes in global [(11)C]PIB binding (\u03c1 = -0.42, p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate [(18)F]FDG uptake (\u03c1 = 0.54, p < 0.01) were correlated with changes in Mini-Mental-State Examination score over time across groups, whilst changes in [(18)F]FDDNP binding (\u03c1 = -0.18, p = 0.35) were not. [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDG track molecular changes in different stages of AD. We found increased amyloid load in MCI patients and progressive metabolic impairment in AD patients. [(18)F]FDDNP seems to be less useful for examining disease progression."}
{"id": "22410450", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia and transient global amnesia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia and transient global amnesia. To describe 3 patients with a history of transient global amnesia (TGA) who developed primary progressive aphasia (PPA). Case series. Tertiary care center. The study included 3 patients who presented to the neurology clinic with language complaints. Presence of recurrent TGA and PPA. Three patients with a history of TGA were subsequently diagnosed as having PPA. All patients had recurrent attacks of TGA. The diagnoses of PPA were supported by speech pathology evaluations, neuropsychometric testing results, and imaging findings. Positron emission tomography revealed left posterior frontal hypometabolism in 1 patient and predominantly left temporal parietal hypometabolism in 1 patient, while single-photon emission computed tomography demonstrated decreased perfusion in the anterior left temporal and frontal lobes in the third patient. There may be a relationship between recurrent TGA and the development of PPA."}
{"id": "22383132", "title": "Assessment of dementia risk in aging adults using both FDG-PET and FDDNP-PET imaging.", "content": "Assessment of dementia risk in aging adults using both FDG-PET and FDDNP-PET imaging. In a previous study, positron emission tomography (PET) with 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP), a molecule that binds to plaques and tangles in vitro, identified three subgroups of non-demented subjects according to FDDNP binding patterns: low global (LG) binding; high frontal, parietal, medial temporal binding (HF/PA); and high medial and lateral temporal and posterior cingulate (HT/PC) binding. In this follow-up investigation, we compared 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro- d-glucose (FDG)-PET cerebral metabolic patterns in the three FDDNP-PET binding subgroups. Fifty-four subjects with normal aging (N\u2009=\u200928) or amnestic forms of mild cognitive impairment (N\u2009=\u200926) underwent FDDNP-PET and FDG-PET scanning. Subjects in the LG, HF/PA, and HT/PC FDDNP subgroups were compared according to visual ratings, statistical parametric mapping, and automated region of interest analyses of their FDG-PET data. The FDDNP-PET subgroups demonstrated different glucose metabolic patterns according to visual ratings, region of interest, and statistical parametric mapping analyses of FDG-PET data. The LG FDDNP subgroup showed no areas of significant hypometabolism relative to the other subgroups and had low Alzheimer's disease risk by FDG-PET standards. The HF/PA FDDNP subgroup demonstrated hypometabolism in bilateral inferior parietal/parietotemporal, bilateral posterior cingulate, perisylvian, mid-temporal gyrus, and dorsolateral prefrontal regions, which is a pattern suggestive of high Alzheimer's disease risk. The HT/PC FDDNP subgroup demonstrated heterogeneous FDG-PET patterns with predominant anterior frontal and anterior temporal hypometabolism, suggestive of mixed etiologies, including fronto-temporal dementia risk. The FDG-PET data provided independent validation that different patterns of FDDNP-PET binding in non-demented individuals may be associated with differential dementia risk."}
{"id": "22365486", "title": "Resting metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease. A European Alzheimer Disease Consortium (EADC) project.", "content": "Resting metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease. A European Alzheimer Disease Consortium (EADC) project. We explored resting-state metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease (pAD) patients and in healthy controls (CTR), through a voxel-wise interregional correlation analysis of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) by means of statistical parametric mapping. Baseline 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography of 36 patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment who converted to Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia after an average time of 2 years (pAD) and of 105 CTR were processed. The area of hypometabolism in pAD showed less metabolic connectivity in patients than in CTR (autocorrelation and correlation with large temporal and frontal areas, respectively). pAD patients showed limited correlation even in selected nonhypometabolic areas, including the hippocampi and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLFC). On the contrary, in CTR group correlation was highlighted between hippocampi and precuneus/posterior cingulate and frontal cortex, and between dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and caudate nuclei and parietal cortex. The reduced metabolic connections both in hypometabolic and nonhypometabolic areas in pAD patients suggest that metabolic disconnection (reflecting early diaschisis) may antedate remote hypometabolism (early sign of synaptic degeneration)."}
{"id": "22359740", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Richardson\u2019s syndrome and progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Richardson\u2019s syndrome and progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism. We hypothesized that postural instability and cognitive decline in patients with Richardson\u2019s syndrome could be a consequence of reduced thalamic and frontal metabolism. Severe Parkinsonian signs in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism may be reflected by alterations in putaminal metabolism. Eleven patients with Richardson\u2019s syndrome, 8 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism, 12 with Parkinson\u2019s disease, and 10 controls underwent clinical assessment and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET). Richardson\u2019s syndrome patients showed pronounced thalamic hypometabolism, and patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism pronounced putaminal hypometabolism, compared to all other investigated groups. The putamen/thalamus uptake ratio differentiated progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism from Richardson\u2019s syndrome (area under the curve 5 0.86) and from Parkinson\u2019s disease (area under the curve 5 0.80) with acceptable accuracy. Frontal hypometabolism was predominantly found in Richardson\u2019s syndrome patients. Richardson\u2019s syndrome, progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism and Parkinson\u2019s disease showed different metabolic patterns in fluorodeoxyglucose PET."}
{"id": "22348880", "title": "Correlations between FDG PET glucose uptake-MRI gray matter volume scores and apolipoprotein E \u03b54 gene dose in cognitively normal adults: a cross-validation study using voxel-based multi-modal partial least squares.", "content": "Correlations between FDG PET glucose uptake-MRI gray matter volume scores and apolipoprotein E \u03b54 gene dose in cognitively normal adults: a cross-validation study using voxel-based multi-modal partial least squares. We previously introduced a voxel-based, multi-modal application of the partial least square algorithm (MMPLS) to characterize the linkage between patterns in a person's complementary complex datasets without the need to correct for multiple regional comparisons. Here we used it to demonstrate a strong correlation between MMPLS scores to characterize the linkage between the covarying patterns of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of regional glucose metabolism and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of regional gray matter associated with apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 gene dose (i.e., three levels of genetic risk for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD)) in cognitively normal, late-middle-aged persons. Coregistered and spatially normalized FDG PET and MRI images from 70% of the subjects (27 \u03b54 homozygotes, 36 \u03b54 heterozygotes and 67 \u03b54 non-carriers) were used in a hypothesis-generating MMPLS analysis to characterize the covarying pattern of regional gray matter volume and cerebral glucose metabolism most strongly correlated with APOE-\u03b54 gene dose. Coregistered and spatially normalized FDG PET and MRI images from the remaining 30% of the subjects were used in a hypothesis-testing MMPLS analysis to generate FDG PET-MRI gray matter MMPLS scores blind to their APOE genotype and characterize their relationship to APOE-\u03b54 gene dose. The hypothesis-generating analysis revealed covarying regional gray matter volume and cerebral glucose metabolism patterns that resembled those in traditional univariate analyses of AD and APOE-\u03b54 gene dose and PET-MRI scores that were strongly correlated with APOE-\u03b54 gene dose (p<1 \u00d7 10(-16)). The hypothesis-testing analysis results showed strong correlations between FDG PET-MRI gray matter scores and APOE-\u03b54 gene dose (p = 8.7 \u00d7 10(-4)). Our findings support the possibility of using the MMPLS to analyze complementary datasets from the same person in the presymptomatic detection and tracking of AD."}
{"id": "22343644", "title": "Novel MRI approaches for assessing cerebral hemodynamics in ischemic cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Novel MRI approaches for assessing cerebral hemodynamics in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Changes in cerebral hemodynamics underlie a broad spectrum of ischemic cerebrovascular disorders. An ability to accurately and quantitatively measure hemodynamic (cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume) and related metabolic (cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen) parameters is important for understanding healthy brain function and comparative dysfunction in ischemia. Although positron emission tomography, single-photon emission tomography, and gadolinium-MRI approaches are common, more recently MRI approaches that do not require exogenous contrast have been introduced with variable sensitivity for hemodynamic parameters. The ability to obtain hemodynamic measurements with these new approaches is particularly appealing in clinical and research scenarios in which follow-up and longitudinal studies are necessary. The purpose of this review is to outline current state-of-the-art MRI methods for measuring cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen and provide practical tips to avoid imaging pitfalls. MRI studies of cerebrovascular disease performed without exogenous contrast are synopsized in the context of clinical relevance and methodological strengths and limitations."}
{"id": "22343502", "title": "Summary metrics to assess Alzheimer disease-related hypometabolic pattern with 18F-FDG PET: head-to-head comparison.", "content": "Summary metrics to assess Alzheimer disease-related hypometabolic pattern with 18F-FDG PET: head-to-head comparison. In the recently revised diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer disease (AD), the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer Association suggested that confidence in diagnosing dementia due to AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD could be improved by the use of certain biomarkers, such as (18)F-FDG PET evidence of hypometabolism in AD-affected brain regions. Three groups have developed automated data analysis techniques to characterize the AD-related pattern of hypometabolism in a single measurement. In this study, we sought to directly compare the ability of these three (18)F-FDG PET data analysis techniques--the PMOD Alzheimer discrimination analysis tool, the hypometabolic convergence index, and a set of meta-analytically derived regions of interest reflecting AD hypometabolism pattern (metaROI)--to distinguish moderate or mild AD dementia patients and MCI patients who subsequently converted to AD dementia from cognitively normal older adults. One hundred sixty-six (18)F-FDG PET patients from the AD Neuroimaging Initiative, 308 from the Network for Efficiency and Standardization of Dementia Diagnosis, and 176 from the European Alzheimer Disease Consortium PET study were categorized, with masking of group classification, as AD, MCI, or healthy control. For each AD-related (18)F-FDG PET index, receiver-operating-characteristic curves were used to characterize and compare subject group classifications. The 3 techniques were roughly comparable in their ability to distinguish each of the clinical groups from cognitively normal older adults with high sensitivity and specificity. Accuracy of classification (in terms of area under the curve) in each clinical group varied more as a function of dataset than by technique. All techniques were differentially sensitive to disease severity, with the classification accuracy for MCI due to AD to moderate AD varying from 0.800 to 0.949 (PMOD Alzheimer tool), from 0.774 to 0.967 (metaROI), and from 0.801 to 0.983 (hypometabolic convergence index). The 3 tested techniques have the potential to help detect AD in research and clinical settings. Additional efforts are needed to clarify their ability to address particular scientific and clinical questions. Their incremental diagnostic value over other imaging and biologic markers makes them easier to implement by other groups for these purposes."}
{"id": "22342372", "title": "Applications of positron emission tomography in animal models of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.", "content": "Applications of positron emission tomography in animal models of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. Positron emission tomography (PET) provides dynamic images of the biodistribution of radioactive tracers in the brain. Through application of the principles of compartmental analysis, tracer uptake can be quantified in terms of specific physiological processes such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate, and the availability of receptors in brain. Whereas early PET studies in animal models of brain diseases were hampered by the limited spatial resolution of PET instruments, dedicated small-animal instruments now provide molecular images of rodent brain with resolution approaching 1mm, the theoretic limit of the method. Major applications of PET for brain research have consisted of studies of animal models of neurological disorders, notably Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Huntington's disease (HD), stroke, epilepsy and traumatic brain injury; these studies have particularly benefited from selective neurochemical lesion models (PD), and also transgenic rodent models (AD, HD). Due to their complex and uncertain pathophysiologies, corresponding models of neuropsychiatric disorders have proven more difficult to establish. Historically, there has been an emphasis on PET studies of dopamine transmission, as assessed with a range of tracers targeting dopamine synthesis, plasma membrane transporters, and receptor binding sites. However, notable recent breakthroughs in molecular imaging include the development of greatly improved tracers for subtypes of serotonin, cannabinoid, and metabotropic glutamate receptors, as well as noradrenaline transporters, amyloid-\u03b2 and neuroinflammatory changes. This article reviews the considerable recent progress in preclinical PET and discusses applications relevant to a number of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders in humans."}
{"id": "22302548", "title": "Accelerated cortical atrophy in cognitively normal elderly with high \u03b2-amyloid deposition.", "content": "Accelerated cortical atrophy in cognitively normal elderly with high \u03b2-amyloid deposition. Given the recent and growing interest in the concepts of prodromal and presymptomatic Alzheimer disease, it is crucial to determine whether the presence of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) in the brain of asymptomatic elderly individuals is a pathologic condition associated with accelerated neuronal and synaptic loss. The aim of the present study was to assess whether A\u03b2 influences the rate of atrophy in cognitively normal elderly individuals. Seventy-four healthy elderly individuals underwent an MRI scan and a 11C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) PET scan at baseline and a second MRI scan 18 months later. Voxel-wise analyses were performed using maps of annual rate of atrophy generated from the serial MRI scans, including comparison between individuals with high vs low neocortical PiB and correlation with baseline neocortical PiB. The rate of atrophy was significantly higher in the normal elderly individuals with high PiB compared with those with low PiB and was significantly correlated with baseline neocortical PiB, with the highest significance in the temporal neocortex and the posterior cingulate cortex. Our findings show that the presence of A\u03b2 in the brain, known to occur in about one-third of asymptomatic elderly individuals, is actually a pathologic state associated with accelerated atrophy. They also suggest that therapy aimed to reduce the neurodegenerative process should be commenced in presymptomatic individuals with high PiB."}
{"id": "22297644", "title": "Value of diagnostic tests to predict conversion to Alzheimer's disease in young and old patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Value of diagnostic tests to predict conversion to Alzheimer's disease in young and old patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment. Using the database of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, we examined the value of neuropsychological assessment, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and FDG-PET scanning with respect to prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD). We tested the hypothesis that CSF biomarkers and FDG-PET would lose prognostic value when applied in patients older than 75 years, whereas MRI and neuropsychological testing would not. At baseline 175 patients had MCI, mostly amnestic. They were followed during a mean of 2.7 years, and 81 patients converted to AD after a mean of 1.6 years. Logistic regression analyses showed that neuropsychological assessment and MRI variables predicted conversion with 63 to 67% classification success both in patients younger and older than 75 years, while CSF biomarkers attained this success rate only in patients younger than 75 years. For FDG-PET, this rate was 57% in the total sample. We conclude that the diagnostic yield of different techniques in predicting conversion from MCI to AD is moderate, and that it is affected by age of the subject under study. MRI and neuropsychological assessment remain informative in patients older than 75 years, unlike CSF biomarkers."}
{"id": "22287381", "title": "Severe olfactory dysfunction is a prodromal symptom of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease: a 3 year longitudinal study.", "content": "Severe olfactory dysfunction is a prodromal symptom of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease: a 3 year longitudinal study. Dementia is one of the most debilitating symptoms of Parkinson's disease. A recent longitudinal study suggests that up to 80% of patients with Parkinson's disease will eventually develop dementia. Despite its clinical importance, the development of dementia is still difficult to predict at early stages. We previously identified olfactory dysfunction as one of the most important indicators of cortical hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease. In this study, we investigated the possible associations between olfactory dysfunction and the risk of developing dementia within a 3-year observation period. Forty-four patients with Parkinson's disease without dementia underwent the odour stick identification test for Japanese, memory and visuoperceptual assessments, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging scans at baseline and 3 years later. A subgroup of patients with Parkinson's disease who exhibited severe hyposmia at baseline showed more pronounced cognitive decline at the follow-up survey. By the end of the study, 10 of 44 patients with Parkinson's disease had developed dementia, all of whom had severe hyposmia at baseline. The multivariate logistic analysis identified severe hyposmia and visuoperceptual impairment as independent risk factors for subsequent dementia within 3 years. The patients with severe hyposmia had an 18.7-fold increase in their risk of dementia for each 1 SD (2.8) decrease in the score of odour stick identification test for Japanese. We also found an association between severe hyposmia and a characteristic distribution of cerebral metabolic decline, which was identical to that of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, volumetric magnetic resonance imaging analyses demonstrated close relationships between olfactory dysfunction and the atrophy of focal brain structures, including the amygdala and other limbic structures. Together, our findings suggest that brain regions related to olfactory function are closely associated with cognitive decline and that severe hyposmia is a prominent clinical feature that predicts the subsequent development of Parkinson's disease dementia."}
{"id": "22285638", "title": "Amyloid imaging in dementias with atypical presentation.", "content": "Amyloid imaging in dementias with atypical presentation. With the potential emergence of disease specific therapies, an accurate biomarker of Alzheimer's Disease pathology is needed in cases in which the underlying etiology is uncertain. We explored the potential value of amyloid imaging in patients with atypical presentations of dementia. Twenty-eight patients with atypical dementia underwent positron emission tomography imaging with the amyloid imaging tracer Pittsburgh compound B (PiB). Twenty-six had [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography scans. After extensive clinical evaluation, this group of patients generated considerable diagnostic uncertainty and received working diagnoses that included possible Alzheimer's disease (AD), focal dementias (e.g., posterior cortical atrophy [PCA]), or cases in which no clear diagnostic category could be determined (dementia of uncertain etiology). Patients were classified as PiB-positive, PiB-negative, or PiB-intermediate, based on objective criteria. Anterior-posterior and left-right indices of PiB and [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake were calculated to examine differences in distribution of amyloid pathology and metabolic changes associated with clinical phenotype. Eleven patients (39%) were PiB positive, 16 were PiB negative (57%), and one (4%) was PiB intermediate. By diagnostic category, three of 10 patients (30%) with dementia of uncertain etiology, one of five (20%) with primary progressive aphasia, three of five (60%) with PCA, and four of seven (57%) with possible AD were PiB positive. Brain metabolism of both PiB-positive and PiB-negative patients was generally similar by phenotype, but appeared to differ from typical AD. PCA patients also appeared to differ in their relative distribution of PiB compared with typical AD, consistent with their atypical phenotype. AD pathology is frequently present in atypical presentations of dementia and can be identified by amyloid imaging. Clinical phenotype is more related to the pattern of cerebral hypometabolism than the presence/absence of amyloid pathology. These findings have diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic implications."}
{"id": "22270508", "title": "Correlation of early-phase 18F-florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) PET images to FDG images: preliminary studies.", "content": "Correlation of early-phase 18F-florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) PET images to FDG images: preliminary studies. (18)F-Florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) is a novel positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for imaging plaque pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD), while PET images of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) for cerebral glucose metabolism can provide complementary information to amyloid plaque images for diagnosis of AD. The goal of this preliminary study was to investigate the perfusion-like property of relative cerebral blood flow estimates (R(1)) and summed early-phase AV-45 images [perfusion AV-45 (pAV-45)] and optimize the early time frame for pAV-45. Dynamic AV-45 PET scans (0-180 min) were performed in seven subjects. pAV-45, late-phase AV-45, and FDG images were spatially normalized to the Montreal Neurological Institute template aided by individual MRI images, and the corresponding standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) was computed. The R(1) images were derived from a simplified reference tissue model. Correlations between regional and voxelwise R(1) and the corresponding FDG images were calculated. An optimization of time frames of pAV-45 was conducted in terms of correlation to FDG images. The optimal early time frame was validated in a separate cohort. The regional distribution in the R(1) images correlated well (R = 0.91) to that of the FDG within subjects. Consistently high correlation was noted across a long range of time frames. The maximal correlation of pAV-45 to FDG SUVR of R = 0.95 was observed at the time frame of 1-6 min, while the peak correlation of R = 0.99 happened at 0-2 min between pAV-45 and R(1). A similar result was achieved in the validation cohort. Preliminary results showed that the distribution patterns of R(1) and pAV-45 images are highly correlated with normalized FDG images, and the initial 5-min early time frame of 1-6 min is potentially useful in providing complementary FDG-like information to the amyloid plaque density by late-phase AV-45 images."}
{"id": "22250011", "title": "Glucose hypometabolism in primary visual cortex is commonly associated with clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies regardless of cognitive conditions.", "content": "Glucose hypometabolism in primary visual cortex is commonly associated with clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies regardless of cognitive conditions. Although metabolic reduction in the primary visual cortex on [(18) F]-fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomographic (PET) scans is the hallmark of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) for differential diagnosis from Alzheimer's disease, the clinical significance of the metabolic pattern in patients without dementia remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical profiles of patients without dementia with the metabolic pattern and its relevance to DLB. Of 145 individuals who underwent (18) F-FDG PET, 25 patients with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex were identified based on three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection images through comparison with a normative database. The frequency of core and suggestive clinical features of DLB was compared between the groups with and without the metabolic pattern. Of 25 patients with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex, 12 exhibited more than two core features of DLB (probable DLB group) and 6 had rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (possible DLB group). Three patients exhibited memory loss without any core or suggestive features but with reduced cardiac iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake. Ten of these 21 patients exhibited no dementia. The proportion of individuals in the probable and possible DLB groups was significantly higher in the group with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex. Glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex is commonly associated with the clinical features of DLB regardless of cognitive conditions. Continued follow-up of these patients without dementia with the metabolic pattern is warranted to determine if they represent the prodromal state of DLB."}
{"id": "22233763", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging based clinical research in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging based clinical research in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly people in western countries. However important goals are unmet in the issue of early diagnosis and the development of new drugs for treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and volumetry of the medial temporal lobe structures are useful tools for diagnosis. Positron emission tomography is one of the most sensitive tests for making an early diagnosis of AD but the cost and limited availability are important caveats for its utilization. The importance of magnetic resonance techniques has increased gradually to the extent that most clinical works based on AD use these techniques as the main aid to diagnosis. However, the accuracy of structural MRI as biomarker of early AD generally reaches an accuracy of 80%, so additional biomarkers should be used to improve predictions. Other structural MRI (diffusion weighted, diffusion-tensor MRI) and functional MRI have also added interesting contribution to the understanding of the pathophysiology of AD. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has proven useful to monitor progression and response to treatment in AD, as well as a biomarker of early AD in mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "22226798", "title": "Cardiovascular fitness is associated with altered cortical glucose metabolism during working memory in \u025b4 carriers.", "content": "Cardiovascular fitness is associated with altered cortical glucose metabolism during working memory in \u025b4 carriers. The possibility that \u025b4 may modulate the effects of fitness in the brain remains controversial. The present exploratory FDG-PET study aimed to better understand the relationship among \u025b4, fitness, and cerebral metabolism in 18 healthy aged women (nine carriers, nine noncarriers) during working memory. Participants were evaluated using maximal level of oxygen consumption, California Verbal Learning Test, and FDG-PET, which were collected at rest and during completion of the Sternberg working memory task. Resting FDG-PET did not differ between carriers and noncarriers. Significant effects of fitness on FDG-PET during working memory were noted in the \u025b4 carriers only. High fit \u025b4 carriers had greater glucose uptake in the temporal lobe than the low fit \u025b4 carriers, but low fit \u025b4 carriers had greater glucose uptake in the frontal and parietal lobes. We demonstrate that fitness differentially affects cerebral metabolism in \u025b4 carriers only, consistent with previous findings that the effects of fitness may be more pronounced in populations genetically at risk for cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22213821", "title": "Evidence for astrocytosis in prodromal Alzheimer disease provided by 11C-deuterium-L-deprenyl: a multitracer PET paradigm combining 11C-Pittsburgh compound B and 18F-FDG.", "content": "Evidence for astrocytosis in prodromal Alzheimer disease provided by 11C-deuterium-L-deprenyl: a multitracer PET paradigm combining 11C-Pittsburgh compound B and 18F-FDG. Astrocytes colocalize with fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques in postmortem Alzheimer disease (AD) brain tissue. It is therefore of great interest to develop a PET tracer for visualizing astrocytes in vivo, enabling the study of the regional distribution of both astrocytes and fibrillar A\u03b2. A multitracer PET investigation was conducted for patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), patients with mild AD, and healthy controls using (11)C-deuterium-L-deprenyl ((11)C-DED) to measure monoamine oxidase B located in astrocytes. Along with (11)C-DED PET, (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB; fibrillar A\u03b2 deposition), (18)F-FDG (glucose metabolism), T1 MRI, cerebrospinal fluid, and neuropsychologic data were acquired from the patients. (11)C-DED PET was performed in MCI patients (n = 8; mean age \u00b1 SD, 62.6 \u00b1 7.5 y; mean Mini Mental State Examination, 27.5 \u00b1 2.1), AD patients (n = 7; mean age, 65.1 \u00b1 6.3 y; mean Mini Mental State Examination, 24.4 \u00b1 5.7), and healthy age-matched controls (n = 14; mean age, 64.7 \u00b1 3.6 y). A modified reference Patlak model, with cerebellar gray matter as a reference, was chosen for kinetic analysis of the (11)C-DED data. (11)C-DED data from 20 to 60 min were analyzed using a digital brain atlas. Mean regional (18)F-FDG uptake and (11)C-PIB retention were calculated for each patient, with cerebellar gray matter as a reference. ANOVA analysis of the regional (11)C-DED binding data revealed a significant group effect in the bilateral frontal and bilateral parietal cortices related to increased binding in the MCI patients. All patients, except 3 with MCI, showed high (11)C-PIB retention. Increased (11)C-DED binding in most cortical and subcortical regions was observed in MCI (11)C-PIB+ patients relative to controls, MCI (11)C-PIB (negative) patients, and AD patients. No regional correlations were found between the 3 PET tracers. Increased (11)C-DED binding throughout the brain of the MCI (11)C-PIB+ patients potentially suggests that astrocytosis is an early phenomenon in AD development."}
{"id": "22196862", "title": "Cerebral metabolism, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and cognitive dysfunction in early multiple sclerosis: an exploratory study.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and cognitive dysfunction in early multiple sclerosis: an exploratory study. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown that cortical cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) is reduced in multiple sclerosis (MS). Quantitative magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) measures of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) normalized to creatine (NAA/Cr) assess neuronal deterioration, and several studies have shown reductions in MS. Furthermore, both PET and MRS reductions correlate with cognitive dysfunction in MS. Our aim was to determine if changes in cortical CMRglc in early MS correlate with NAA/Cr measurements of neuronal deterioration, as well as cognitive dysfunction and neurological disability. We studied 20 recently diagnosed, clinically definite, relapsing-remitting MS patients. Global and cortical CMRglc was estimated using PET with 18-F-deoxyglucose and NAA/Cr ratio was measured using multislice echo-planar spectroscopic imaging. All subjects were neuro-psychologically tested and a cognitive dysfunction factor (CDF) was calculated. Cortical CMRglc correlated with cortical NAA/Cr (r = 0.45; P < 0.05), but there were no correlation between CMRglc and other NAA/Cr measurements, conventional magnetic resonance imaging measurements, or CDF. Stepwise regression analysis showed association between cortical NAA/Cr and CMRglc of the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (P < 0.001), left putamen (P = 0.010), and left hippocampus (P = 0.011). Furthermore, CDF was related to CMRglc in the left cerebellum (P = 0.001) and the left caudate nucleus (P = 0.013). The results of the statistical analysis should be regarded as exploratory, since we did not correct for multiple comparisons. Our findings suggest that reductions in cortical CMRglc are associated with reductions in cortical NAA/Cr in early MS. These changes affect cortical and subcortical neural circuits of importance to cognitive function."}
{"id": "22188720", "title": "Glucose metabolism and gray-matter concentration in apolipoprotein E \u03b54 positive normal subjects.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and gray-matter concentration in apolipoprotein E \u03b54 positive normal subjects. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54 is known as a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigated the prevalence of imaging abnormalities suggestive of AD in cognitively normal ApoE \u03b54 carriers using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Forty-five cognitive normal ApoE \u03b54 allele carriers and 45 noncarriers underwent both FDG positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A total of 90 normal database sets were generated for the individual 45 \u03b54 carriers and 45 noncarriers. Mean z-scores in the predefined AD-specific regions of interest (ROI) were calculated for each \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier using the individually defined normal database. The prevalence of AD-like hypometabolism and atrophy in the \u03b54 carriers was 8.9% and 17.7%, respectively, and did not differ significantly from those in the noncarriers (8.9%, 8.8%). The majority of \u03b54 carriers showed preserved FDG uptake or gray matter concentration."}
{"id": "22184615", "title": "Executive deficits are related to the inferior frontal junction in early dementia.", "content": "Executive deficits are related to the inferior frontal junction in early dementia. Executive functions describe a wide variety of higher order cognitive processes that allow the flexible modification of thought and behaviour in response to changing cognitive or environmental contexts. Their impairment is common in neurodegenerative disorders. Executive deficits negatively affect everyday activities and hamper the ability to cope with other deficits, such as memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease or behavioural disorders in frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Our study aimed to characterize the neural correlates of executive functions by relating respective deficits to regional hypometabolism in early dementia. Executive functions were assessed with two classical tests, the Stroop and semantic fluency test and various subtests of the behavioural assessment of the dysexecutive syndrome test battery capturing essential aspects of executive abilities relevant to daily living. Impairments in executive functions were correlated with reductions in brain glucose utilization as measured by [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and analysed voxelwise using statistical parametric mapping in 54 subjects with early dementia, mainly Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration, and its prodromal stages: subjective and mild cognitive impairment. Although the analysis revealed task-specific frontoparietal networks, it consistently showed that hypometabolism in one region in the left lateral prefrontal cortex-the inferior frontal junction area-was related to performance in the various neuropsychological tests. This brain region has recently been related to the three component processes of cognitive control-working memory, task switching and inhibitory control. Group comparisons additionally showed hypometabolism in this area in Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Our study underlines the importance of the inferior frontal junction area for cognitive control in general and for executive deficits in early dementia."}
{"id": "22173784", "title": "Education and occupation provide reserve in both ApoE \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier patients with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Education and occupation provide reserve in both ApoE \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. According to the reserve hypothesis, a high educational/occupational attainment can modulate Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical expression. The impact of the Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54 allele on the reserve mechanism in AD has not been assessed. Aim of this European multicenter study was to evaluate the metabolic correlates of reserve and ApoE genotype in early probable AD. 51 AD subjects, 27 \u03b54 carriers, and 24 noncarriers, underwent FDG-PET brain imaging. We used the general linear model as implemented in SPM2 to test for the linear correlation of a reserve index, accounting for both educational and occupational level, with brain glucose metabolism, controlling for demographic variables (age and gender) and for cognitive performance. We found an inverse correlation between a reserve index, accounting for educational/occupational level, and metabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus in both \u03b54 carriers and noncarriers, and no significant difference between the groups. We show that education and occupation act as proxies for reserve in \u03b54 carriers, compensating for an unfavorable genetic background; we also show that the degree of compensation does not differ significantly by ApoE \u03b54 status."}
{"id": "22166456", "title": "18F-FDG PET study on the idiopathic Parkinson's disease from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes.", "content": "18F-FDG PET study on the idiopathic Parkinson's disease from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes. To investigate the difference in glucose metabolism on (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) imaging for differential diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes using SPM2 approach. (18)F-FDG PET was performed for 18 IPD patients, 22 multiple system atrophy (MSA) patients, 13 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients, 5 corticobasal degeneration (CBD) patients, 7 dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) patients and 1 normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) patient. Imaging-based diagnosis was obtained by statistical parametric mapping (SPM2) software to analyze the differences and overlaps among these groups. The (18)F-FDG PET images analyzed with SPM2 demonstrated that a reduction in glucose metabolism occurred in bilateral parietal area for IPD, in bilateral putamen for MSA-P, in bilateral cerebellum for MSA-C, in midbrain and the middle frontal cortex for PSP, in asymmetrical metabolism of the cortex and the basal ganglia for CBD, in bilateral occipital and parieto-occipital areas for DLB. The metabolic reductions in a patient of NPH group were observed in the ventricular system. This study identifies different patterns of glucose metabolism in parkinsonism. (18)F-FDG PET imaging may contribute to early differential diagnosis in clinically ambiguous cases of parkinsonism."}
{"id": "22166451", "title": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease.", "content": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease. The objective of this paper is to compare and contrast the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging findings in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) versus Lewy body disease (LBD) pathology. MCI refers to a clinical syndrome with impairment in one or more cognitive domains, with essentially normal performance of activities of daily living. Patients with the amnesic subtype of MCI often develop the dementia syndrome and neuroimaging findings characteristic of AD [e.g., hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), temporoparietal and posterior cingulate hypometabolism on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), positive uptake on amyloid PET, normal striatonigral uptake on dopamine transporter scanning (DAT), etc.]. In contrast, the MCI syndrome associated with LBD pathology regardless of the coexisting presence or absence of parkinsonism is usually characterized by impairment in the executive and/or visuospatial domains, and the cognitive features are often preceded by REM sleep behavior disorder by many years. There is minimal hippocampal atrophy on MRI, minimal if any cortical uptake on amyloid-PET, and one would predict that hypometabolism would be maximal in the occipital cortex on FDG-PET and uptake would be decreased on DAT. The early data suggests that differentiating underlying AD vs LBD in the MCI phase will be feasible."}
{"id": "22115832", "title": "The use of PIB-PET as a dual pathological and functional biomarker in AD.", "content": "The use of PIB-PET as a dual pathological and functional biomarker in AD. Amyloid imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) is presently used in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research. In this study we investigated the possibility to use early frames (ePIB) of the PIB scans as a rough index of CBF by comparing normalised early PIB values with cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc). PIB-PET and FDG-PET were performed in 37 AD patients, 21 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 6 healthy controls (HC). The patients were divided based on their PIB retention (amyloid load) as either PIB positive (PIB+) or PIB negative (PIB-). Data of the unidirectional influx K(1) from a subset of the subjects including 7 AD patients and 3 HC was used for correlative analysis. Data was analysed using regions of interest (ROI) analysis. A strong, positive correlation was observed across brain regions between K(1) and ePIB (r=0.70; p\u22640.001). The ePIB values were significantly lower in the posterior cingulate (p\u22640.001) and the parietal cortices (p=0.002) in PIB+ subjects compared to PIB-, although the group difference were stronger for rCMRglc in cortical areas (p\u22640.001). Strong positive correlations between ePIB and rCMRglc were observed in all cortical regions analysed, especially in the posterior cingulate and parietal cortices (p\u22640.001). A single dynamic PIB-PET scan may provide information about pathological and functional changes (amyloidosis and impaired blood flow). This might be important for diagnosis of AD, enrichment of patients in clinical trials and evaluation of treatment effects. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "22108203", "title": "PET amyloid-beta imaging in preclinical Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET amyloid-beta imaging in preclinical Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, accounting for 60-70% of all cases [Hebert et al., 2003, 1]. The need for effective therapies for AD is great. Current approaches, including cholinesterase inhibitors and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, are symptomatic treatments for AD but do not prevent disease progression. Many diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to AD are currently changing due to the knowledge that underlying pathology starts 10 to 20 years before clinical signs of dementia appear [Holtzman et al., 2011, 2]. New therapies which focus on prevention or delay of the onset or cognitive symptoms are needed. Recent advances in the identification of AD biomarkers now make it possible to detect AD pathology in the preclinical stage of the disease, in cognitively normal (CN) individuals; this biomarker data should be used in the selection of high-risk populations for clinical trials. In vivo visualization of AD neuropathology and biological, biochemical or physiological confirmation of the effects of treatment likely will substantially improve development of novel pharmaceuticals. Positron emission tomography (PET) is the leading neuroimaging tool to detect and provide quantitative measures of AD amyloid pathology in vivo at the early stages and follow its course longitudinally. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "22081102", "title": "Striatal hypermetabolism in limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Striatal hypermetabolism in limbic encephalitis. Striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET scan is a neuroradiological finding that has been described in association with autoimmune disorders such as Sydenham chorea, lupus or antiphospholipid syndrome. Here, we report three patients with non-paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis characterized by 18FDG-PET hypermetabolism of both striata, in contrast with diffuse hypometabolism in the rest of the brain. All patients developed subacute dementia, and antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels were found in all cases. Brain metabolism and neurological status improved within a few months of immunosuppressive therapy. The finding of striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET images could thus be highly indicative of limbic encephalitis associated with anti-neuropil antibodies. It could be of significant help in the diagnosis of this rare and treatable condition, and may also provide a useful marker of disease outcome."}
{"id": "22079258", "title": "Asymmetric loss of parietal activity causes spatial bias in prodromal and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Asymmetric loss of parietal activity causes spatial bias in prodromal and mild Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), loss of effective neuronal activity is reflected by cortical glucose hypometabolism. Hypometabolism in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is among the first in vivo signs of AD; however, its functional impact on large-scale brain mechanisms and behavior is poorly understood. The lateral PPC contributes to spatial attention constituting a basic function of the human brain. We hypothesized 1) that lateral PPC hypometabolism is associated with impaired spatial attention in very early AD and 2) that impaired competition of effective neuronal activity across hemispheres might underlie this deficit in terms of brain mechanisms. A model-based imaging approach was applied to assess patients with prodromal (n = 28) and mild (n = 7) AD. Quantitative attention parameters, derived from performance on simple psychophysical tasks and analyzed by Bundesen's computational theory of visual attention, were related to brain metabolism, measured by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. Patients' left and right lateral PPC metabolism was reduced. Nine patients had significant spatial attentional bias on the left side and two patients on the right. Direction and degree of spatial bias was correlated with direction and degree of an interhemispheric metabolism bias in the inferior parietal lobe and temporoparietal junction. Our data provide evidence that in very early AD, asymmetric hypometabolism of the lateral PPC causes spatial attentional bias. Results are broadly consistent with the model that asymmetrically impaired effective neuronal PPC activity in AD biases the competition of visual objects for cortical representation and access to awareness to one side."}
{"id": "22057028", "title": "The dying of the light: mitochondrial failure in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The dying of the light: mitochondrial failure in Alzheimer's disease. Impaired brain energy production, reflected by reduced cortical glucose metabolism seen on 2-FDG PET scans, has emerged as a robust biomarker of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Progression from MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD) shows further decline of cortical 2-FDG uptake, implying worsening bioenergetics. We characterized respiration, respiratory protein levels, and gene expressions for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), mitochondrial biogenesis, and antioxidative signaling in preparations from postmortem AD and control frontal cortex. Mitochondrial respiration was maintained in frozen brain mitochondria and reduced by approximately two-thirds in AD due to loss of mitochondrial mass. Levels of most respiratory proteins were preserved, but expressions of gene families for mtDNA, mitobiogenesis, and mitochondrial/cytosolic antioxidant enzymes were reduced in AD cortex. None of these changes in AD were related to elevated levels of amyoid-\u03b21-42 peptide. For unclear reasons, mitochondrial biogenesis is suppressed in AD frontal cortex, leading to reduced mitochondrial mass and impaired mitochondrial respiratory capacity. Downregulation of antioxidant proteins further threatens neuronal function. Altering progression of AD appears to require both correction of impaired mitobiogenesis and restoration of antioxidant protection."}
{"id": "22051030", "title": "Right temporal variant frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Right temporal variant frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease. Patterns of atrophy in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) correlate with the clinical subtypes of behavioral variant FTD (bvFTD), semantic dementia, progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) and FTD with motor neuron disease (FTD-MND). Right temporal variant FTD is associated with behavioral dyscontrol and semantic impairment, with tau abnormalities more common in right temporal bvFTD and TDP-43 accumulation in right temporal semantic dementia. However, no clinical and anatomical correlation has been described for patients with predominant right temporal atrophy and FTD-MND. Therefore, we performed a database screen for all patients diagnosed with FTD-MND at Mayo Clinic and reviewed their MRI scans to identify those with striking, dominant, right temporal lobe atrophy. For cases with volumetric MRI we performed voxel based morphometry and for those with brain tissue we performed pathological examination. Of three such patients identified, each patient had different presenting behavioral and/or aphasic characteristics. MRI, including diffusion tensor imaging in one patient, and FDG positron emission tomography revealed striking and dominant right temporal lobe atrophy, right corticospinal tract degeneration, and right temporal hypometabolism. Archived brain tissue was available in two patients; both demonstrating TDP-43 type 3 pathology (Mackenzie scheme) with predominant neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions. In one case, neurofibrillary tangles (Braak V) and neuritic plaques were also present in keeping with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. There appears to be an association between FTD-MND and severe right temporal lobe atrophy. Until further characterization of such cases are determined, they may be best classified as right temporal variant FTD-MND."}
{"id": "22050286", "title": "Glucose metabolism in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a statistical parametric mapping analysis of (18) F-FDG PET.", "content": "Glucose metabolism in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a statistical parametric mapping analysis of (18) F-FDG PET. Reports describing functional neuroimaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) have consistently suggested that these tools are sensitive for the identification of areas of hypoperfusion or hypometabolism, even in the early stages of sCJD. However, there are few reports on the use of [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) PET in sCJD, and most of them are single case reports. Only two small cohort studies based on visual inspection or a region of interest method have been published to date. Using a statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis of (18) F-FDG PET, we investigated whether there are brain regions preferentially affected in sCJD. After controlling for age and gender, using SPM 2, we compared the glucose metabolism between (i) 11 patients with sCJD and 35 controls and (ii) the subset of five patients with the Heidenhain variant of sCJD and 35 controls. The patients with sCJD showed decreased glucose metabolism in bilateral parietal, frontal and occipital cortices. The Heidenhain variant of sCJD showed glucose hypometabolism mainly in bilateral occipital areas. Glucose hypometabolism in sCJD was detected in extensive cortical regions; however, it was not found in the basal ganglia or thalamus, which are frequently reported to be affected on diffusion-weighted images. The medial temporal area, which is possibly resistant to the prion deposits, was also less involved in sCJD."}
{"id": "22047634", "title": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: a review of papers published since its inception.", "content": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: a review of papers published since its inception. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is an ongoing, longitudinal, multicenter study designed to develop clinical, imaging, genetic, and biochemical biomarkers for the early detection and tracking of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study aimed to enroll 400 subjects with early mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 200 subjects with early AD, and 200 normal control subjects; $67 million funding was provided by both the public and private sectors, including the National Institute on Aging, 13 pharmaceutical companies, and 2 foundations that provided support through the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health. This article reviews all papers published since the inception of the initiative and summarizes the results as of February 2011. The major accomplishments of ADNI have been as follows: (1) the development of standardized methods for clinical tests, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in a multicenter setting; (2) elucidation of the patterns and rates of change of imaging and CSF biomarker measurements in control subjects, MCI patients, and AD patients. CSF biomarkers are consistent with disease trajectories predicted by \u03b2-amyloid cascade (Hardy, J Alzheimers Dis 2006;9(Suppl 3):151-3) and tau-mediated neurodegeneration hypotheses for AD, whereas brain atrophy and hypometabolism levels show predicted patterns but exhibit differing rates of change depending on region and disease severity; (3) the assessment of alternative methods of diagnostic categorization. Currently, the best classifiers combine optimum features from multiple modalities, including MRI, [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET, CSF biomarkers, and clinical tests; (4) the development of methods for the early detection of AD. CSF biomarkers, \u03b2-amyloid 42 and tau, as well as amyloid PET may reflect the earliest steps in AD pathology in mildly symptomatic or even nonsymptomatic subjects, and are leading candidates for the detection of AD in its preclinical stages; (5) the improvement of clinical trial efficiency through the identification of subjects most likely to undergo imminent future clinical decline and the use of more sensitive outcome measures to reduce sample sizes. Baseline cognitive and/or MRI measures generally predicted future decline better than other modalities, whereas MRI measures of change were shown to be the most efficient outcome measures; (6) the confirmation of the AD risk loci CLU, CR1, and PICALM and the identification of novel candidate risk loci; (7) worldwide impact through the establishment of ADNI-like programs in Europe, Asia, and Australia; (8) understanding the biology and pathobiology of normal aging, MCI, and AD through integration of ADNI biomarker data with clinical data from ADNI to stimulate research that will resolve controversies about competing hypotheses on the etiopathogenesis of AD, thereby advancing efforts to find disease-modifying drugs for AD; and (9) the establishment of infrastructure to allow sharing of all raw and processed data without embargo to interested scientific investigators throughout the world. The ADNI study was extended by a 2-year Grand Opportunities grant in 2009 and a renewal of ADNI (ADNI-2) in October 2010 through to 2016, with enrollment of an additional 550 participants."}
{"id": "22044023", "title": "Stage-dependent agreement between cerebrospinal fluid proteins and FDG-PET findings in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Stage-dependent agreement between cerebrospinal fluid proteins and FDG-PET findings in Alzheimer's disease. Cerebral hypometabolism and abnormal levels of amyloid beta (A\u03b2), total (t-tau) and phosphorylated tau (ptau) proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are established biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined the agreement between these biomarkers in a single center study of patients with AD of severity extending over a wide range. Forty seven patients (MMSE 21.4 \u00b1 3.6, range 13-28 points) with incipient and probable AD underwent positron emission tomography with [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) and lumbar puncture for CSF assays of A\u03b21-42, p-tau181, and t-tau. All findings were classified as either positive or negative for AD. Statistical analyses were performed for the whole sample (n=47) and for the subgroups stratified as mild (MMSE > 20 points, n=30) and moderate (MMSE < 21 points, n=17) AD. In the whole patient sample, the agreement with the FDG-PET finding was 77% (chance-corrected kappa [\u03ba]=0.34, p=0.016) for t-tau, 68% (\u03ba=0.10, n.s.) for p-tau181, and 68% (\u03ba=0.04, n.s.) for A\u03b21-42. No significant agreement was found in the mild AD subgroup, while there was a strong agreement for t-tau (94%, \u03ba=0.77, p=0.001) and p-tau181 (88%, \u03ba=0.60, p=0.014) in the moderate AD group. A significant agreement between the FDG-PET and CSF tau findings in patients with AD supports the view that both are markers of neurodegeneration. CSF tau proteins and FDG-PET might substitute each other as supportive diagnostic tools in patients with suspected moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's dementia, while this is not the case in subjects at an earlier disease stage."}
{"id": "22041339", "title": "Neuropathological investigation of the hypometabolic regions on positron emission tomography with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Neuropathological investigation of the hypometabolic regions on positron emission tomography with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. We performed a quantitative neuropathological examination of the hypometabolic regions on FDG PET in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control cases. When the DLB cases were divided into two groups according to concomitant AD pathology (ADP), neuronal loss in the temporo-parietal association area was milder in the DLB groups than in the AD group, although there were no differences between the two DLB groups. Tau and A\u03b2 immunoreactivities were observed in the AD group and the DLB group with ADP, but were rare in the DLB group without ADP. Tau and A\u03b2 immunoreactivities as well as numbers of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuritic plaques (NPs) were more common in the AD group than in the DLB group with ADP. There was no difference in neuronal loss in the occipital area among the three groups. \u03b1-Synuclein immunoreactivity was observed in the DLB groups but not in the AD group. There were no differences in \u03b1-synuclein immunoreactivity and number of Lewy bodies (LBs) between the two DLB groups. These findings indicate that the neuropathological bases of the hypometabolic regions in the temporo-parietal association and occipital area in DLB may be AD pathology and Lewy pathology, respectively."}
{"id": "22018896", "title": "Multimodality imaging characteristics of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Multimodality imaging characteristics of dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our objective was to determine whether the (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) retention and regional hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) and regional cortical atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are complementary in characterizing patients with DLB and differentiating them from AD. We studied age-, gender-, and education-matched patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB (n = 21), AD (n = 21), and cognitively normal subjects (n = 42). Hippocampal atrophy, global cortical PiB retention and occipital lobe metabolism in combination distinguished DLB from AD better than any of the measurements alone (area under the receiver operating characteristic = 0.98). Five of the DLB and AD patients who underwent autopsy were distinguished through multimodality imaging. These data demonstrate that magnetic resonance imaging and PiB positron emission tomography contribute to characterizing the distinct pathological mechanisms in patients with AD compared with DLB. Occipital and posterior parietotemporal lobe hypometabolism is a distinguishing feature of DLB and this regional hypometabolic pattern is independent of the amyloid pathology."}
{"id": "21983184", "title": "Quantitative magnetization transfer provides information complementary to grey matter atrophy in Alzheimer's disease brains.", "content": "Quantitative magnetization transfer provides information complementary to grey matter atrophy in Alzheimer's disease brains. Preliminary studies, based on a region-of-interest approach, suggest that quantitative magnetization transfer (qMT), an extension of magnetization transfer imaging, provides complementary information to conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the characterisation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to extend these findings to the whole brain, using a voxel-wise approach. We recruited 19AD patients and 11 healthy subjects (HS). All subjects had an MRI acquisition at 3.0T including a T(1)-weighted volume, 12 MT-weighted volumes for qMT, and data for computing T(1) and B(1) maps. The T(1)-weighted volumes were processed to yield grey matter (GM) volumetric maps, while the other sequences were used to compute qMT parametric maps of the whole brain. qMT maps were warped to standard space and smoothed, and subsequently compared between groups. Of all the qMT parameters considered, only the forward exchange rate, RM(0)(B), showed significant group differences. These images were therefore retained for the multimodal statistical analysis, designed to locate brain regions of RM(0)(B) differences between AD and HS groups, adjusting for local GM atrophy. Widespread areas of reduced RM(0)(B) were found in AD patients, mainly located in the hippocampus, in the temporal lobe, in the posterior cingulate and in the parietal cortex. These results indicate that, among qMT parameters, RM(0)(B) is the most sensitive to AD pathology. This quantity is altered in the hippocampus of patients with AD (as found by previous works) but also in other brain areas, that PET studies have highlighted as involved with both, reduced glucose metabolism and amyloid \u03b2 deposition. RM(0)(B) might reflect, through the measurement of the efficiency of MT exchange, some information with a specific pathological counterpart. Given previous evidence of a strict relationship between RM(0)(B) and intracellular pH, an intriguing speculation is that our findings might reflect metabolic changes related to mitochondrial dysfunction, which has been proposed as a contributor to neurodegeneration in AD."}
{"id": "21907609", "title": "Diffuse cortical hypometabolism on (18)F-FDG-PET scan in a case of an adult variant cerebello-brainstem dominant form of ALD manifesting dementia.", "content": "Diffuse cortical hypometabolism on (18)F-FDG-PET scan in a case of an adult variant cerebello-brainstem dominant form of ALD manifesting dementia."}
{"id": "21879327", "title": "Parkinson's disease showing progressive conduction aphasia.", "content": "Parkinson's disease showing progressive conduction aphasia. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may develop progressive dementia late in their clinical course. Dementia in PD is mostly related to neuropathological findings of extensive Lewy bodies (LBs), with or without the coexistence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Aphasia has been reported in patients with LB diseases with AD pathology; however, there have been no reports of typical PD patients developing progressive aphasia during their clinical course. We describe a female PD patient who later developed progressive conduction aphasia characterized by phonemic paraphasia and disturbance in repetition of short sentences without disturbance in writing or auditory comprehension. No episodes of fluctuations of attention, memory complaints, or planning errors were observed. She experienced episodes of visual hallucination. Her low scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination suggested impairment of orientation and attention, and her scores on Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices test indicated impaired visuospatial functions. However, her cognitive deficits were not sufficiently severe to impair her daily life. Brain magnetic resonance images revealed atrophy of the left superior temporal gyrus and widening of the left sylvian fissure. [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealed glucose hypometabolism in the left cerebral hemisphere. These findings may be related to conduction aphasia. During the progression of PD lesions, the brainstem LB is assumed to take an upward course, extend to the limbic system, and then extend to the neocortex. Conduction aphasia observed in our patient may be associated with an unusual progression of the LB pathology from the brainstem to the left temporoparietal lobe."}
{"id": "21839829", "title": "Structural brain imaging in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Structural brain imaging in frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second commonest young-onset neurodegenerative dementia. The canonical clinical syndromes are a behavioural variant (bvFTD) and two language variants (progressive nonfluent aphasia, PNFA, and semantic dementia, SD) although there is overlap with motor neurone disease and the atypical parkinsonian disorders corticobasal syndrome (CBS) and progressive supranuclear palsy syndrome (PSPS). Characteristic patterns of atrophy or hypometabolism are described in each of the variants but in reality imaging studies are rather heterogeneous. This review attempts to address four key questions in the neuroimaging of FTD: 1) what are the early imaging features of the different FTD syndromes (and how do these change as the disease progresses); 2) what do studies of presymptomatic genetic cases of FTD tell us about the very early stages of the disease; 3) can neuroimaging help to differentiate the different FTD syndromes; and 4) can neuroimaging help to differentiate FTD from other neurodegenerative diseases? This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "21821316", "title": "Blood pressure is associated with higher brain amyloid burden and lower glucose metabolism in healthy late middle-age persons.", "content": "Blood pressure is associated with higher brain amyloid burden and lower glucose metabolism in healthy late middle-age persons. Epidemiological studies suggest that elevated blood pressure (BP) in midlife is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in late life. In this preliminary study, we investigated the extent to which BP measurements are related to positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of fibrillar amyloid-beta burden using Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET measures of cerebral metabolic rate for glucose metabolism (CMRgl) in cognitively normal, late middle-aged to older adult apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 homozygotes, heterozygotes and noncarriers. PiB PET results revealed that systolic BP (SBP) and pulse pressure (PP) were each positively correlated with cerebral-to-cerebellar PiB distribution volume ratio (DVR) in frontal, temporal, and posterior-cingulate/precuneus regions, whereas no significant positive correlations were found between PiB distribution volume ratios and diastolic BP (DBP). FDG PET results revealed significant inverse correlations between each of the BP measures and lower glucose metabolism in frontal and temporal brain regions. These preliminary findings provide additional evidence that higher BP, likely a reflection of arterial stiffness, during late midlife may be associated with increased risk of presymptomatic AD."}
{"id": "21721045", "title": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review.", "content": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) shares common clinical, neuropsychological and pathological features with other dementia subtypes, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), making it difficult to differentiate in clinical practice. Despite the development of consensus diagnostic criteria, many cases are missed, and biomarkers to assist with diagnosis would represent important advances. Our aim was to review the literature to identify potential biomarkers that may distinguish DLB from other dementia subtypes, especially AD. The literature search was performed using Medline up to October 2010 for imaging studies [single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and amyloid imaging] and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers in DLB. Individual articles were examined for additional references. The abstracts of the identified articles were read to determine the most relevant papers, which became the basis for this review. The most robust evidence available was for striatal dopamine transporter activity visualised by (123) I-labelled N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane ((123) I-FP-CIT) SPECT. Several other imaging techniques have also reported promising results, such as [(18) F]fluorodopa PET, which assesses nigrostriatal integrity; [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET, which assesses metabolic deficits; and meta-iodobenzylguanidine imaging, which assesses sympathetic cardiac denervation. Data from studies using CSF measures of amyloid and tau, occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on MRI suggest that they may offer less diagnostic discrimination. Several potential biomarkers have shown good diagnostic accuracy for DLB, but apart from FP-CIT SPECT, there is now a need for larger clinical multi-site studies, as well as for studies with pathological verification of diagnosis, before their use could be recommended for routine clinical practice."}
{"id": "21679929", "title": "Regional expansion of hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease follows amyloid deposition with temporal delay.", "content": "Regional expansion of hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease follows amyloid deposition with temporal delay. Cross-sectional imaging studies suggest that patterns of hypometabolism (measured by [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography [FDG-PET]) and amyloid deposition (measured by [(11)C] Pittsburgh Compound B [PiB]- PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) show some overlap with each other. This indicates that neuronal dysfunction might spread within the anatomical pattern of amyloid deposition. The aim of this study was to examine longitudinal regional patterns of amyloid deposition and hypometabolism in the same population of mild AD subjects and to establish their regional relationship to each other. Twenty patients with mild AD underwent baseline (BL) and follow-up (FU) examination with [(18)F] FDG-PET and [(11)C] PiB-PET. Voxel-by-voxel statistical group comparison (SPM5) was performed between patient BL- and FU-PET data as well as between patients and 15 PiB-negative elderly control subjects, who had undergone identical imaging procedures. To obtain objective measures of regional overlap, Dice similarity coefficients (DSC) between the imaging findings were calculated. Compared with elderly control subjects, AD patients showed typical patterns of BL hypometabolism and BL amyloid deposition, with a similarity of 40% (DSC). Amyloid deposition was more extended than hypometabolism at BL and showed only minor changes over time, whereas significant expansion of hypometabolism was observed, almost exclusively within areas already affected by BL amyloid deposition. Thus, increased similarity of FU hypometabolism with BL amyloid deposition was found (DSC: 47%). Longitudinal regional expansion of cerebral hypometabolism, as a measure of neuronal dysfunction in AD, seems to follow the anatomical pattern of amyloid deposition with temporal delay. This indicates that amyloid-based disruption of neuronal integrity might contribute to the regional expansion of neuronal dysfunction."}
{"id": "21674695", "title": "Disruption of limbic white matter pathways in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a DTI/FDG-PET study.", "content": "Disruption of limbic white matter pathways in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a DTI/FDG-PET study. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) affect the limbic system, causing medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) hypometabolism. Additionally, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have demonstrated that MCI and AD involve alterations in cerebral white matter (WM) integrity. To test if (1) patients with MCI and AD exhibit decreases in the integrity of limbic WM pathways; (2) disconnection between PCC and MTL, manifested as disruption of the cingulum bundle, contributes to PCC hypometabolism during incipient AD. We measured fractional anisotropy (FA) and volume of the fornix and cingulum using DTI in 23 individuals with MCI, 21 with mild-to-moderate AD, and 16 normal control (NC) subjects. We also measured PCC metabolism using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in AD and MCI patients. Fornix FA and volume were reduced in MCI and AD to a similar extent. Descending cingulum FA was reduced in AD while volume was reduced in MCI and even more so in AD. Both FA and volume of the fornix and descending cingulum reliably discriminated between NC and AD. Fornix FA and descending cingulum volume also reliably discriminated between NC and MCI. Only descending cingulum volume reliably discriminated between MCI and AD. In the combined MCI-AD cohort, PCC metabolism directly correlated with both FA and volume of the descending cingulum. Disruption of limbic WM pathways is evident during both MCI and AD. Disconnection of the PCC from MTL at the cingulum bundle contributes to PCC hypometabolism during incipient AD."}
{"id": "21514691", "title": "Maternal age affects brain metabolism in adult children of mothers affected by Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Maternal age affects brain metabolism in adult children of mothers affected by Alzheimer's disease. Cognitively normal (NL) individuals with a maternal history of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (MH) show reduced brain glucose metabolism on FDG-PET as compared to those with a paternal history (PH) and those with negative family history (NH) of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This FDG-PET study investigates whether metabolic deficits in NL MH are associated with advancing maternal age at birth. Ninety-six NL individuals with FDG-PET were examined, including 36 MH, 24 PH, and 36 NH. Regional-to-whole brain gray matter standardized FDG uptake value ratios were examined for associations with parental age across groups using automated regions-of-interest and statistical parametric mapping. Groups were comparable for clinical and neuropsychological measures. Brain metabolism in AD-vulnerable regions was lower in MH compared to NH and PH, and negatively correlated with maternal age at birth only in MH. There were no associations between paternal age and metabolism in any group. Evidence for a maternally inherited, maternal age-related mechanism provides further insight on risk factors and genetic transmission in late-onset AD."}
{"id": "20961663", "title": "Characterization of 7- and 19-month-old Tg2576 mice using multimodal in vivo imaging: limitations as a translatable model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Characterization of 7- and 19-month-old Tg2576 mice using multimodal in vivo imaging: limitations as a translatable model of Alzheimer's disease. With 90% of neuroscience clinical trials failing to see efficacy, there is a clear need for the development of disease biomarkers that can improve the ability to predict human Alzheimer's disease (AD) trial outcomes from animal studies. Several lines of evidence, including genetic susceptibility and disease studies, suggest the utility of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) as a potential biomarker with congruency between humans and animal models. For example, early in AD, patients present with decreased glucose metabolism in the entorhinal cortex and several regions of the brain associated with disease pathology and cognitive decline. While several of the commonly used AD mouse models fail to show all the hallmarks of the disease or the limbic to cortical trajectory, there has not been a systematic evaluation of imaging-derived biomarkers across animal models of AD, contrary to what has been achieved in recent years in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (Miller, 2009). If animal AD models were found to mimic endpoints that correlate with the disease onset, progression, and relapse, then the identification of such markers in animal models could afford the field a translational tool to help bridge the preclinical-clinical gap. Using a combination of FDG-PET and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined the Tg2576 mouse for global and regional measures of brain glucose metabolism at 7 and 19 months of age. In experiment 1 we observed that at younger ages, when some plaque burden and cognitive deficits have been reported, Tg2576 mice showed hypermetabolism as assessed with FDG-PET. This hypermetabolism decreased with age to levels similar to wild type (WT) counterparts such that the 19-month-old transgenic (Tg) mice did not differ from age matched WTs. In experiment 2, using cerebral blood volume (CBV) fMRI, we demonstrated that the hypermetabolism observed in Tg mice at 7 months could not be explained by changes in hemodynamic parameters as no differences were observed when compared with WTs. Taken together, these data identify brain hypermetabolism in Tg2576 mice which cannot be accounted for by changes in vascular compliance. Instead, the hypermetabolism may reflect a neuronal compensatory mechanism. Our data are discussed in the context of disease biomarker identification and target validation, suggesting little or no utility for translational based studies using Tg2576 mice."}
{"id": "20688420", "title": "Dynamic changes in PET amyloid and FDG imaging at different stages of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dynamic changes in PET amyloid and FDG imaging at different stages of Alzheimer's disease. In this study 5 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 9 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients underwent respectively 3- and 5-year follow-up positron emission tomography (PET) studies with N-methyl [(11)C] 2-(4-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiazole ((11)C-PIB) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) to understand the time courses in AD disease processes. Significant increase in PIB retention as well as decrease in regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) was observed at group level in the MCI patients while no significant change was observed in cognitive function. At group level the AD patients showed unchanged high PIB retention at 5-year follow-up compared with baseline. At the individual level, increased, stable, and decreased PIB retention were observed while disease progression was reflected in significant decrease in rCMRglc and cognition. In conclusion, after a long-term follow-up with PET, we observed an increase in fibrillar amyloid load in MCI patients followed by more stable level in clinical AD patients. The rCMRglc starts to decline in MCI patients and became more pronounced in clinical stage which related to continuous decline in cognition."}
{"id": "20417582", "title": "Cognition, glucose metabolism and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognition, glucose metabolism and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease. The authors investigated relationships between glucose metabolism, amyloid load, and measures of cognitive and functional impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients meeting criteria for probable AD underwent (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh Compound-B ([(11)C]PIB) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and were assessed on a set of clinical measures. The Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) Distribution volume ratios and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) scans were spatially normalized and average PIB counts from regions-of-interest (ROI) were used to compute a measure of global PIB uptake. Separate voxel-wise regressions explored local and global relationships between metabolism, amyloid burden, and clinical measures. Regressions reflected cognitive domains assessed by individual measures, with visuospatial tests associated with more posterior metabolism, and language tests associated with metabolism in the left hemisphere. Correlating regional FDG uptake with these measures confirmed these findings. In contrast, no correlations were found between either voxel-wise or regional PIB uptake and any of the clinical measures. Finally, there were no associations between regional PIB and FDG uptake. We conclude that regional and global amyloid burden does not correlate with clinical status or glucose metabolism in AD."}
{"id": "22368970", "title": "Brain FDG-PET changes in ALS and ALS-FTD.", "content": "Brain FDG-PET changes in ALS and ALS-FTD. FDG-PET in ALS most typically demonstrates a primary (and sometimes also supplementary) motor cortex hypometabolism, often associated with more diffuse cortical hypometabolism involving mostly the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the medial and lateral premotor cortices, and the bilateral insular cortex involvement. In ALS-FTD, extensive temporal hypometabolism is seen in addition to severe diffuse frontal hypometabolism. This study analyses FDG-PET findings in 6 ALS patients and 4 ALS-FTD patients. In addition to earlier described areas of hypometabolism in ALS, we found also reduced FDG-PET metabolism in the medial frontal cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex, and the anterior temporal lobe in our ALS patients. The anterolateral area was the best preserved part of the frontal lobe in ALS patients. In ALS-FTD, frontal and temporal hypometabolism was severe (and parietal hypometabolism was often also present) with relatively preserved perirolandic metabolism. In ALS, more diffuse frontal and temporal FDG-PET hypometabolism was seen than earlier reported, with the anterolateral area as the best preserved part of the frontal lobe. In ALS-FTD, relatively preserved perirolandic metabolism was seen, associated with severe frontal and temporal hypometabolism."}
{"id": "22188660", "title": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report.", "content": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) is the rate-limiting enzyme for producing \u03b3-aminobutyric acid, and it has been suggested that antibodies against GAD play a role in neurological conditions and type 1 diabetes. However, it is not known whether dementia appears as the sole neurological manifestation associated with anti-GAD antibodies in the central nervous system. We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroradiological findings of a 73-year-old female with cognitive dysfunction and type 1A diabetes. Observation and neuropsychological studies revealed linguistic problems, short-term memory disturbance, and frontal dysfunction. MRI showed no significant lesion except for confluent small T2-hyperintensity areas localized in the left basal ganglia. \u00b9\u2078F-fluorodeoxy glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine-single photon emission computed tomography (IMP-SPECT) studies showed bifrontal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion. Immunomodulating therapy with intravenous high-dose immunoglobulin resulted in no remission of the cognitive symptoms. Cognitive dysfunction may develop as an isolated neurological manifestation in association with type 1A diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity. A systematic study with extensive neuropsychological assessment is indicated in patients with type 1 diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity."}
{"id": "22188635", "title": "Use of biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer disease: from concept to application.", "content": "Use of biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer disease: from concept to application. Research progress during the last decades has resulted in an unprecedented accumulation of knowledge regarding the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). These important achievements toward clarifying the mechanistic processes underlying AD are being translated into ongoing development of biomarkers and their use in clinical trials. AD biomarkers are biochemical and anatomical variables (e.g. cerebrospinal fluid, positron emission tomography, and structural MRI) that measure AD-related pathologic features (i.e. amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration) in vivo. Biomarkers are utilized as 'diagnostic biomarkers' and/or 'endpoint biomarkers' in symptomatic or disease-modifying clinical trials. Diagnostic biomarkers play an important role in population enrichment by refining selection criteria, stratifying populations, and increasing the statistical power of trials. Endpoint biomarkers may be used as outcome measures to monitor the rate of disease progression and detect treatment effects. AD biomarkers do not reach abnormal levels or peak simultaneously, but do so in a time-dependent order. The choice of biomarkers for a clinical trial must take into consideration the type of therapeutic intervention, the clinical stage of AD, and the time dependence of biomarker changes during disease progression. The combination of amyloid and neurodegeneration biomarkers is highly desirable since they capture different aspects of the disease. Clinical trials for every clinical stage of AD would benefit from quantification and standardization of biomarkers. However, this is still a work in progress."}
{"id": "22106763", "title": "Evaluation of therapeutic response to donepezil by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Evaluation of therapeutic response to donepezil by positron emission tomography. Donepezil hydrochloride (Donepezil) is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) that is used for the symptomatic treatment of Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type (DAT). Recently, the effects of AChEI in patients with DAT have been investigated using positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). This study is to evaluate the usefulness of fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET in assessing the therapeutic response of Donepezil to DAT using Regions of Interest (ROI) analysis. The participants included eleven outpatients diagnosed as having DAT according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). The patients were performed FDG-PET before initiating Donepezil therapy and after 12 weeks of medication. Cognitive change was measured using the Japanese version of the Alzheimer's disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale (ADAS-J cog) and the group was divided into Responders and Non-responders based on these results. We used FDG-PET to investigate glucose metabolism of the brain and measured FDG uptake in the ROI set in each lobe of the brain. Then the ratios of the post-treatment uptake to pre-treatment uptake were determined. In the Responders, the mean ratios in the frontal, temporal, occipital, parietal, and temporoparietal lobes were 2.18, 1.62, 1.15, 1.12, and 1.09 respectively. The mean ratios of the Non-responders were 0.69, 0.88, 0.75, 0.98, and 0.68 respectively. Significant differences were found between the ratios of the Responders and Non-responders in the frontal and occipital lobes (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that FDG-PET could be useful for the evaluation for monitoring response to Donepezil."}
{"id": "22096518", "title": "Abnormal cognition, sleep, EEG and brain metabolism in a novel knock-in Alzheimer mouse, PLB1.", "content": "Abnormal cognition, sleep, EEG and brain metabolism in a novel knock-in Alzheimer mouse, PLB1. Late-stage neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are \u03b2-amyloid (\u03b2A) and hyperphosphorylated tau peptides, aggregated into plaques and tangles, respectively. Corresponding phenotypes have been mimicked in existing transgenic mice, however, the translational value of aggressive over-expression has recently been questioned. As controlled gene expression may offer animal models with better predictive validity, we set out to design a transgenic mouse model that circumvents complications arising from pronuclear injection and massive over-expression, by targeted insertion of human mutated amyloid and tau transgenes, under the forebrain- and neurone-specific CaMKII\u03b1 promoter, termed PLB1(Double). Crossing with an existing presenilin 1 line resulted in PLB1(Triple) mice. PLB1(Triple) mice presented with stable gene expression and age-related pathology of intra-neuronal amyloid and hyperphosphorylated tau in hippocampus and cortex from 6 months onwards. At this early stage, pre-clinical (18)FDG PET/CT imaging revealed cortical hypometabolism with increased metabolic activity in basal forebrain and ventral midbrain. Quantitative EEG analyses yielded heightened delta power during wakefulness and REM sleep, and time in wakefulness was already reliably enhanced at 6 months of age. These anomalies were paralleled by impairments in long-term and short-term hippocampal plasticity and preceded cognitive deficits in recognition memory, spatial learning, and sleep fragmentation all emerging at \u223c12 months. These data suggest that prodromal AD phenotypes can be successfully modelled in transgenic mice devoid of fibrillary plaque or tangle development. PLB1(Triple) mice progress from a mild (MCI-like) state to a more comprehensive AD-relevant phenotype, which are accessible using translational tools such as wireless EEG and microPET/CT."}
{"id": "22094481", "title": "Voxel-level comparison of arterial spin-labeled perfusion MRI and FDG-PET in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Voxel-level comparison of arterial spin-labeled perfusion MRI and FDG-PET in Alzheimer disease. We compared the ability of arterial spin labeling (ASL), an MRI method that measures cerebral blood flow (CBF), to that of FDG-PET in distinguishing patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) from healthy, age-matched controls. Fifteen patients with AD (mean age 72 \u00b1 6 years, Mini-Mental State Examination score [MMSE] 20 \u00b1 6) and 19 age-matched controls (mean age 68 \u00b1 6 years, MMSE 29 \u00b1 1) underwent structural MRI. Participants were injected with 5 mCi of FDG during pseudocontinuous ASL scan, which was followed by PET scanning. Statistical parametric mapping and regions of interest (ROI) analysis were used to compare the ability of the 2 modalities in distinguishing patients from controls. Similarity between the 2 modalities was further assessed with linear correlation maps of CBF and metabolism to neuropsychological test scores. Good agreement between hypoperfusion and hypometabolism patterns was observed, with overlap primarily in bilateral angular gyri and posterior cingulate. ROI results showed similar scales of functional deficit between patients and controls in both modalities. Both ASL and FDG-PET were able to distinguish neural networks associated with different neuropsychological tests with good overlap between modalities. Our voxel-wise results indicated that ASL-MRI provides largely overlapping information with FDG-PET. ROI analysis demonstrated that both modalities detected similar degrees of functional deficits in affected areas. Given its ease of acquisition and noninvasiveness, ASL-MRI may be an appealing alternative for AD studies."}
{"id": "22091601", "title": "Molecular PET imaging in multicenter Alzheimer's therapeutic trials: current trends and implementation strategies.", "content": "Molecular PET imaging in multicenter Alzheimer's therapeutic trials: current trends and implementation strategies. Current therapeutic approaches for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have evolved to target specific molecular biological, metabolic and neuropathologic hallmarks of the disease. Since these approaches are hypothesized to be most effective at the earliest stages of the degenerative process, the ability to accurately detect and monitor progression of AD pathology and metabolic changes in vivo may accelerate the discovery and development of disease-modifying drugs. The use of molecular imaging biomarkers can not only enhance diagnostic accuracy and facilitate patient selection/stratification, but can also serve as key outcomes for clinical trials. In this review, we discuss emerging trends in the use of PET in AD drug development and provide a roadmap for harnessing its promise in multicenter clinical trials."}
{"id": "22087438", "title": "Reduced grey matter metabolism due to white matter edema allows optimal assessment of brain tumors on 18F-FDG-PET.", "content": "Reduced grey matter metabolism due to white matter edema allows optimal assessment of brain tumors on 18F-FDG-PET. The main aim of this research was to demonstrate that the cortical and subcortical grey matter hypometabolism as revealed by fluorine-18 fluorodesoxyglucose-positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET) imaging in brain tumors is related to associated edema as demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This in turn enhances the ability to assess disease activity in the tumor and the degree of loss of cerebral function in the adjacent and distant structures. We evaluated brain T1 and T2 weighted MRI and (18)F-FDG-PET scans of 29 patients (19 adult, 10 pediatric) with history of brain tumor. Tumor histology types included 21 gliomas, 1 melanoma, 1 primitive neuroectodermal tumor, 3 medulloblastomas and 3 ependymomas. The majority of scans were performed within the same week (94% <1 month. The extent of hypo and hypermetabolism was assessed on the (18)F-FDG-PET scans. A template of 12 regions of interest (ROI) was applied and the laterality indices of the regional counts (signal intensity) were computed. Extent of edema, enhancement, and anatomical change were assessed on the MRI scans. Extent of edema in the same ROI was evaluated by a 6-point semiquantitative scale and laterality indices were generated. Metabolic activity of the grey matter was correlated with the extent of edema using these indices. In all cases where edema was present, significant hypometabolism was observed in the adjacent structures. Overall, there was a strong correlation between the extent of edema and severity of hypometabolism (r=0.92, P=0.01). This was true regardless of the location of edema, whether there was history of radiation treatment (r=0.91, P=0.03), or not (r=0.97, P=0.17). In conclusion, edema independent of underlying variables appeared to contribute significantly to cortical and sub-cortical grey matter hypometabolism observed in patients with brain tumors. This would indicate that brain tumors can be successfully assessed by (18)F-FDG-PET and therefore the efforts for utilizing other tracers may not be justified."}
{"id": "22044532", "title": "Dissociating behavioral disorders in early dementia-An FDG-PET study.", "content": "Dissociating behavioral disorders in early dementia-An FDG-PET study. Behavioral impairments occur frequently in dementia. Studies with magnetic resonance imaging, measuring atrophy, have systematically investigated their neural correlates. Such a systematic approach has not yet been applied to imaging with [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), although regional hypometabolism may precede and exceed atrophy in dementia. The present study related all behavioral disorders as assessed with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory to reductions in brain glucose utilization as measured by FDG-PET with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM5). It included 54 subjects mainly with early Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal lobar degeneration, and subjective cognitive impairment. Apathy, disinhibition and eating disorders - most frequent in frontotemporal lobar degeneration - correlated significantly with regional brain hypometabolism. Whereas a single regressor analysis and conjunction analysis revealed largely overlapping frontomedian regions that were associated with all three behavioral domains, a disjunction analysis identified three specific neural networks for each behavioral disorder, independent of dementia severity. Apathy was related to the ventral tegmental area, a component of the motivational dopaminergic network; disinhibition to both anterior temporal lobes including the anterior hippocampi and left amygdala, caudate head, orbitofrontal cortex and insulae; and eating disorders to the right lateral (orbito) frontal cortex/insula. Our study contributes to the understanding of behavioral deficits in early dementia and suggests specific diagnostic and therapeutic approaches."}
{"id": "21987563", "title": "[The logopenic variant of primary progressive aphasia].", "content": "[The logopenic variant of primary progressive aphasia]. The logopenic variant of primary progressive aphasia [also referred to as logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA)] is the most recently identified variant of primary progressive aphasia (PPA). This disorder, characterized by a unique speech and language profile, occurs due to damage to specific anatomical areas. An international panel of experts has established a set of diagnostic criteria for PPA and its clinical variants. The clinical diagnostic criteria for the logopenic variant include core features such as impaired single-word retrieval in spontaneous speech and impaired repetition of sentences and phrases. Additional features, of which at least 3 are essential for diagnosing the logopenic variant, include phonological errors in speech, spared single-word comprehension and object knowledge, spared motor speech, and lack of frank agrammatism. For a next imaging-supported diagnosis, the aforementioned clinical features must be accompanied by imaging findings revealing atrophy, hypoperfusion, or hypometabolism in the left temporo-parietal junction area. Finally, a pathology-confirmed case of the logopenic variant requires a clinical diagnosis of the syndrome accompanied by histopathological data or the presence of a known pathogenic mutation. Studies have clarified the clinical phenotype of this disorder, suggesting a prominent impairment of the phonological working memory. Several studies have provided evidences of a possible link between the logopenic phenotype and the specific pathological and genetic correlates. The diagnostic guidelines will enable a more accurate identification of the individuals with the logopenic variant, thus facilitating the documentation of the course of illness and, ultimately, the underlying pathological substrate in this patient group via the pathology-confirmed series."}
{"id": "21987546", "title": "Role of family history for Alzheimer biomarker abnormalities in the adult children study.", "content": "Role of family history for Alzheimer biomarker abnormalities in the adult children study. To assess whether family history (FH) of Alzheimer disease (AD) alone influences AD biomarker abnormalities. Adult Children Study. Washington University's Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. A total of 269 cognitively normal middle- to older-aged individuals with and without an FH for AD. Clinical and cognitive measures, magnetic resonance imaging-based brain volumes, diffusion tensor imaging-based white matter microstructure, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, and molecular imaging of cerebral fibrillar amyloid with positron emission tomography using the [(11)C] benzothiazole tracer, Pittsburgh compound B. A positive FH for AD was associated with an age-related decrease of cerebrospinal fluid A\u03b242; the \u03b54 allele of apolipoprotein E (APOE4) did not alter this effect. Age-adjusted cerebrospinal fluid A\u03b242 was decreased for individuals with APOE4 compared with the level for those without, and the decrease was larger for individuals with a positive FH compared with the decrease for those without. The variation of cerebrospinal fluid tau and Pittsburgh compound B mean cortical binding potential increased by age. For individuals younger than 55, an age-related increase in mean cortical binding potential was associated with APOE4 but not FH. For individuals older than 55, a positive FH and a positive APOE4 implied the fastest age-related increase in mean cortical binding potential. A positive FH was associated with decreased fractional anisotropy from diffusion tensor imaging in the genu and splenium of the corpus callosum. Independent of APOE4, FH is associated with age-related change of several cerebrospinal fluid, Pittsburgh compound B, and diffusion tensor imaging biomarkers in cognitively normal middle- to older-aged individuals, suggesting that non- APOE susceptibility genes for AD influence AD biomarkers."}
{"id": "21983241", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: emerging roles in the evaluation of putative Alzheimer's disease-modifying treatments.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: emerging roles in the evaluation of putative Alzheimer's disease-modifying treatments. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with characteristic and progressive reductions in flourodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. These reductions begin years before the onset of symptoms, are correlated with clinical severity, and may help predict an affected patient's clinical course and neuropathological diagnosis. Like several other AD biomarkers, FDG PET has the potential to accelerate the evaluation of AD-modifying treatments, particularly in the earliest clinical and preclinical stages. This article considers FDG PET's role in the detection and tracking of AD, its emerging roles in the evaluation of disease-slowing treatments, some of the issues involved in the acquisition, analysis, and interpretation of FDG PET data, and the evidence needed to help qualify FDG PET and other biomarkers for use in the accelerated approval of AD-slowing treatments. It recommends scientific strategies and public policies to further establish the role of FDG PET and other AD biomarkers in therapeutic trials and find demonstrably effective disease-modifying and presymptomatic AD treatments as quickly as possible."}
{"id": "21971479", "title": "Combinatorial markers of mild cognitive impairment conversion to Alzheimer's disease--cytokines and MRI measures together predict disease progression.", "content": "Combinatorial markers of mild cognitive impairment conversion to Alzheimer's disease--cytokines and MRI measures together predict disease progression. Progression of people presenting with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) to dementia is not certain and it is not possible for clinicians to predict which people are most likely to convert. The inability of clinicians to predict progression limits the use of MCI as a syndrome for treatment in prevention trials and, as more people present with this syndrome in memory clinics, and as earlier diagnosis is a major goal of health services, this presents an important clinical problem. Some data suggest that CSF biomarkers and functional imaging using PET might act as markers to facilitate prediction of conversion. However, both techniques are costly and not universally available. The objective of our study was to investigate the potential added benefit of combining biomarkers that are more easily obtained in routine clinical practice to predict conversion from MCI to Alzheimer's disease. To explore this we combined automated regional analysis of structural MRI with analysis of plasma cytokines and chemokines and compared these to measures of APOE genotype and clinical assessment to assess which best predict progression. In a total of 205 people with MCI, 77 of whom subsequently converted to Alzheimer's disease, we find biochemical markers of inflammation to be better predictors of conversion than APOE genotype or clinical measures (Area under the curve (AUC) 0.65, 0.62, 0.59 respectively). In a subset of subjects who also had MRI scans the combination of serum markers of inflammation and MRI automated imaging analysis provided the best predictor of conversion (AUC 0.78). These results show that the combination of imaging and cytokine biomarkers provides an improvement in prediction of MCI to AD conversion compared to either datatype alone, APOE genotype or clinical data and an accuracy of prediction that would have clinical utility."}
{"id": "21971473", "title": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in patients with amnestic MCI and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in patients with amnestic MCI and mild Alzheimer's disease. The effect of cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in AD is largely unexplored. Therefore, we aimed to investigate cognitive parameters and 18FDG PET to test for effects of a cognitive intervention in patients with aMCI or mild AD. Patients with aMCI (N = 24) or mild AD (N = 15) were randomly assigned either to cognitive intervention groups (IGs), receiving weekly sessions of group-based multicomponent cognitive intervention, or active control groups (CGs), receiving pencil-paper exercises for self-study. We obtained resting-state FDG-PET scans and neuropsychological testing at baseline and after six-months. Normalized FDG-PET images were analyzed using voxel-based SPM5 approaches to determine longitudinal changes, group-by-time interactions and correlations with neuropsychological outcome parameters. Primary global cognitive outcome was determined by analyses of covariance with MMSE and ADAS-cog scores as dependent measures. Both, aMCI and AD subgroups of CGs showed widespread bilateral cortical declines in FDG uptake, while the AD subgroup of IGs showed discrete decline or rather no decline in case of the aMCI subgroup. Group by time analyses revealed strongest attenuation of metabolic decline in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs, involving left anterior temporal pole and anterior cingulate gyrus. However, correlation analyses revealed only weak non-significant associations between increased FDG uptake and improvement in primary or secondary outcome parameters. Concurrently, there was significant improvement in global cognitive status in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs. A six-month cognitive intervention imparted cognitive benefits in patients with aMCI, which were concurrent with an attenuated decline of glucose metabolism in cortical regions affected by neurodegenerative AD."}
{"id": "21971457", "title": "Effects of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease. The role of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a vital component to understanding the pathogenesis of this disease. Disrupted perfusion is not only evident throughout disease manifestation, it is also demonstrated during the pre-clinical phase of AD (i.e., mild cognitive impairment) as well as in cognitively healthy persons at high-risk for developing AD due to family history or genetic factors. Studies have used a variety of imaging modalities (e.g., SPECT, MRI, PET) to investigate AD, but with its recent technological advancements and non-invasive use of blood water as an endogenous tracer, arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI has become an imaging technique of growing popularity. Through numerous ASL studies, it is now known that AD is associated with both global and regional cerebral hypoperfusion and that there is considerable overlap between the regions implicated in the disease state (consistently reported in precuneus/posterior cingulate and lateral parietal cortex) and those implicated in disease risk. Debate exists as to whether decreased blood flow in AD is a cause or consequence of the disease. Nonetheless, hypoperfusion in AD is associated with both structural and functional changes in the brain and offers a promising putative biomarker that could potentially identify AD in its pre-clinical state and be used to explore treatments to prevent, or at least slow, the progression of the disease. Finally, given that perfusion is a vascular phenomenon, we provide insights from a vascular lesion model (i.e., stroke) and illustrate the influence of disrupted perfusion on brain structure and function and, ultimately, cognition in AD."}
{"id": "21971455", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. This study used PET with the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) imaging agent 11 C Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) and the glucose metabolic tracer 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to map the relationship of A\u03b2 deposition to regional glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Comparison of 13 AD patients' FDG scans with 11 healthy controls confirmed a typical temporo-parietal hypometabolic pattern in AD. In contrast, PIB distribution-volume-ratios showed a distinct pattern of specific tracer retention in fronto-temporo-parietal regions and striatum in AD with peaks in left frontal cortex, precuneus, temporal cortex, striatum and right posterior cingulate. There were no region-to-region or within region correlations between FDG and PIB uptake in PIB positive AD patients but when the impact of A\u03b2 load on glucose metabolism was assessed via probabilistic maps, increased amyloid burden was coupled with decreased metabolism in temporo-parietal regions and the posterior cingulate. However, importantly, severe A\u03b2 burden was not associated with comparable metabolic decreases in large parts of the frontal lobes, the striatum and the thalamus."}
{"id": "21958648", "title": "Relationship between occupation attributes and brain metabolism in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Relationship between occupation attributes and brain metabolism in frontotemporal dementia. Occupation has been associated with cognitive reserve in healthy aging and Alzheimer's disease. Here we assess the relationship between cerebral metabolic deficits in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and occupation characteristics. Using factor analysis, we derived verbal, physical and visuospatial occupation scores from the US Department of Labor, Occupational Information Network and related these scores to regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose utilization in 31 patients diagnosed with behavioral variant bvFTD, controlling for cognitive status (CERAD neuropsychological assessment battery), gender and education. Regression analyses showed a marked inverse association between glucose metabolism and (a) verbal occupation scores in left prefrontal cortex and, (b) physical occupation characteristics in right supplementary motor area. We concluded that, consistent with the cognitive reserve hypothesis, lifelong occupation characteristics are related to focal cerebral metabolic deficits in bvFTD. Specific occupation demands spanning decades may strengthen cognitive resistance to pathology."}
{"id": "21951958", "title": "Presenile dementia diagnosed as posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Presenile dementia diagnosed as posterior cortical atrophy. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) was originally proposed in 1988 based on five cases of dementia presenting characteristic clinical symptoms. The concept of PCA is still not generally accepted. Herein, we present a case of a presenile female with PCA. A 57-year-old woman was brought to the hospital by her older sister. The patient's chief complaints were that she could not drive a car safely and had caused numerous traffic accidents. Construction apraxia and unilateral spatial agnosia were detected by neuropsychological tests. The patient could not write a coherent the letter even though she was well educated. In addition, she demonstrated slight memory disturbance and she needed her sister's support in daily life. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography examinations confirmed bilateral posterior atrophy and significant hypoperfusion in the occipital regions. The neuropathological background of PCA remains unclear. Therefore, the concept of PCA should be validated by the accumulation of information from more cases."}
{"id": "21940621", "title": "Mild cognitive impairment in drug-naive patients with PD is associated with cerebral hypometabolism.", "content": "Mild cognitive impairment in drug-naive patients with PD is associated with cerebral hypometabolism. To characterize brain metabolic changes associated with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in drug-naive patients with Parkinson disease (PD) using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET (FDG-PET). This cross-sectional study included newly diagnosed patients with PD with MCI in single or multiple domain (PD-MCI; n =12) and without MCI (PD-nMCI; n =12), and healthy controls (n =12). The groups were matched for age. Moreover, the patient groups were matched for motor disability. All subjects underwent a FDG-PET study. Cerebral regional relative metabolic maps were compared in PD-MCI, PD-nMCI, and controls using regions of interest analysis (ROIs) and voxel-based analysis with statistical parametric mapping. ROIs and voxel-based analyses revealed significant relative hypometabolism in the prefrontal, superior/inferior parietal, and associative occipital cortices as well as in the striatum in patients with PD-MCI relative to controls (p < 0.05) and to a lesser extent in patients with PD-nMCI. In contrast, patients with PD-nMCI did not show significant metabolic changes as compared to controls. MCI in patients with PD is associated with cortical hypometabolism since the earliest stage, independent of therapy or motor disability. The early involvement of posterior cortical region, a pattern shared by advanced stages of PD-MCI and PD with dementia, could represent an early marker of dementia. The relevance of this pattern in predicting prodromal dementia has to be evaluated in longitudinal studies."}
{"id": "21914395", "title": "[Clinical features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Clinical features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies]. To investigate the clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and therapeutic features of 33 DLB patients were retrospectively analyzed. There were 25 males and 8 females. The mean course from onset to diagnosis was 3.3 years. Sleep disorder, depression, anxiety and constipation were present at 1 - 10 years prior to DLB onset in 10 patients. Memory impairment (52%) and parkinsonism (21%) were initial symptoms. The mean duration from memory impairment to presence of parkinsonism was 17 months. Pattern of extrapyramidal signs showed bilateral, symmetry and axial muscles bias as postural instability and facial impassivity, tremor was less in DLB. Hallucination (70%), sleep disorder (63%), apathy (56%) and delusion (52%) were the major behavioral and psychological symptoms. Hallucination occurred within a mean of 15 months after presence of initial symptoms. Cognition impairment progressed rapidly in half of patients. Neuropsychological tests of mild patients revealed visuospatial dysfunction and relatively preservation of memory. Severe impairment of all domains of cognition was noticed in moderate-severe patients. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) revealed the preservation of hippocampal structures. And PET (positron emission tomography) showed hypometabolism of occipital lobe. Cholinesterase inhibitors could improve cognitive impairment and behavioral symptoms in a large majority of patients. Neuronal dysfunction may be present at an early stage of DLB. Early presence of hallucination, a high prevalence of sleep disorders, axial rigidity and hypometabolism of occipital lobe on PET may help to distinguish DLB from other types of dementia."}
{"id": "21889117", "title": "Dementia and Alzheimer's disease: a new direction.The 2010 Jay L. Foster Memorial Lecture.", "content": "Dementia and Alzheimer's disease: a new direction.The 2010 Jay L. Foster Memorial Lecture. The modern era of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research began in the early 1980s with the establishment of AD research centers and expanded research programs at the National Institute on Aging. Over the past 30 years, there has been success in defining criteria for AD and dementia, association of important genetic disorders related to premature dementia in families, the association of apolipoprotein-E(4), and measurement of incidence and prevalence and selected risk factors. However, prevention and treatment have been elusive. The development of new technologies, especially magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography to measure amyloid in\u00a0vivo in the brain and glucose metabolism, cerebrospinal fluid examination, better genetic markers, large-scale longitudinal epidemiology studies, and preventive clinical trials has rapidly begun a new era of research that offers opportunities to better understand etiology, that is, determinants of amyloid biology in the brain, neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic loss, and dementia. There are three major hypotheses related to dementia: amyloid deposition and secondary synaptic loss as a unique disease, vascular injury, and \"aging.\" New research must be hypothesis-driven and lead to testable approaches for treatment and prevention."}
{"id": "21876255", "title": "Seizures can precede cognitive symptoms in late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Seizures can precede cognitive symptoms in late-onset Alzheimer's disease. This study describes late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) in the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage, debuting with seizures in a 72 year-old woman. Prodromal AD was consistently diagnosed with four among amyloidosis and neurodegeneration biomarkers about 1 year after onset of seizures. Genetic assessment demonstrated apolipoprotein E \u03b52/\u03b53 genotype and three intronic single nucleotide substitutions, two in presenilin 1 and one in amyloid-\u03b2 protein precursor genes. This case of seizures at onset of LOAD with severe signs of brain amyloidosis and neurodegeneration but with just MCI leads to a re-appraisal of the intriguing relationship between AD pathology and neuron excitability in humans."}
{"id": "21856969", "title": "Cerebral metabolism, cognition, and functional abilities in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism, cognition, and functional abilities in Alzheimer disease. Patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) exhibit profound difficulties in completing instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), such as managing finances, organizing medications, and food preparation. It is unclear which brain areas underlie IADL deficits in AD. To address this question, we used voxel-based analysis to correlate the performance of IADLs with resting cerebral metabolism as measured during [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging in 44 patients with AD. Poorer ability to complete IADLs was associated with hypometabolism in right-sided cortical regions, including the parietal lobe, posterior temporal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and frontal pole. Follow-up path analyses examining anatomically defined regions of interest (ROI) demonstrated that the association between metabolism and IADLs was mediated by global cognition in frontal ROIs, and partially mediated by global cognition in the parietal ROI. Findings suggest that hypometabolism of right sided brain regions involved in executive functioning, visuospatial processing, attention, and working memory underlie functional impairments in patients with AD."}
{"id": "21852199", "title": "Brain damage and IQ in unilateral Sturge-Weber syndrome: support for a \"fresh start\" hypothesis.", "content": "Brain damage and IQ in unilateral Sturge-Weber syndrome: support for a \"fresh start\" hypothesis. We tested the hypothesis that extent of severe hypometabolism measured by fluorodeoxyglucose PET has a U-shaped (nonlinear) relationship to IQ in children with unilateral Sturge-Weber syndrome. Thirty-five consecutive children (age range: 30-153 months) with Sturge-Weber syndrome and unilateral brain involvement were enrolled in the study. Participants underwent cognitive assessment and interictal fluorodeoxyglucose PET scans. Regression analyses tested whether a quadratic model best accounted for the relationship between extent of severe cortical hypometabolism and IQ, controlling for seizure variables. A significant quadratic relationship was found between IQ and extent of severe (but not total) hypometabolism. Seizure variables also contributed significant variance to cognitive functions. Results suggest that intermediate size of severe hemispheric hypometabolism is associated with the worst cognitive outcomes, and small or absent lesions, with the best cognitive outcomes. Children in whom a very large extent of the hemisphere is severely affected are likely to have relatively preserved cognitive function."}
{"id": "21846988", "title": "Clinical course of patients with familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease potentially lacking senile plaques bearing the E693\u0394 mutation in amyloid precursor protein.", "content": "Clinical course of patients with familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease potentially lacking senile plaques bearing the E693\u0394 mutation in amyloid precursor protein. Oligomeric amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2) is currently considered to induce Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined 2 patients with familial AD who possessed the Osaka (E693\u0394) mutation in amyloid precursor protein. To the best of our knowledge, these patients are the first AD cases presumably affected with A\u03b2 oligomers in the absence of senile plaques, and they support the A\u03b2 oligomer hypothesis. We evaluated the clinical course, neuropsychological data, cerebrospinal fluid biomarker levels, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (PET) scans, and Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-PET images of these patients. In the early stages, these patients developed memory disturbances in a similar rate to patients with sporadic AD. Despite their memory disturbances, both patients showed only limited brain atrophy on MRI and little amyloid accumulation on PiB-PET. Subsequent to the development of memory disturbances, both patients suffered from motor dysfunction, probably due to cerebellar ataxia, and, within a few years, the patients fell into an apallic state. Familial AD patients with Osaka (E693\u0394) mutation show severe dementia, cerebellar ataxia, and gait disturbances."}
{"id": "21841458", "title": "Serotonin transporter occupancy and the functional neuroanatomic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression.", "content": "Serotonin transporter occupancy and the functional neuroanatomic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression. The functional neuroanatomic changes associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment have been the focus of positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism in geriatric depression. To evaluate the underlying neurochemical mechanisms, both cerebral glucose metabolism and serotonin transporter (SERT) availability were measured before and during treatment with the SSRI, citalopram. It was hypothesized that SERT occupancy would be observed in cortical and limbic brain regions that have shown metabolic effects, as well as striatal and thalamic regions that have been implicated in prior studies in midlife patients. Psychiatric outpatient clinic. Seven depressed patients who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria for current major depressive episode were enrolled. Patients underwent a 12-week open-label trial of the SSRI, citalopram. Patients underwent high-resolution research tomography PET scans to measure changes in cerebral glucose metabolism and SERT occupancy by citalopram treatment (after 8-10 weeks of treatment). Three different tracer kinetic models were applied to the [\u00b9\u00b9C]-DASB region-of-interest data and yielded similar results of an average of greater than 70% SERT occupancy in the striatum and thalamus during citalopram treatment. Voxel-wise analyses showed significant SERT occupancy in these regions, as well as cortical (e.g., anterior cingulate, superior and middle frontal, precuneus, and limbic (parahippocampal gyrus) areas that also showed reductions in glucose metabolism. The findings suggest that cortical and limbic SERT occupancy may be an underlying mechanism for the regional cerebral metabolic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression."}
{"id": "21813680", "title": "Effects of brain amyloid deposition and reduced glucose metabolism on the default mode of brain function in normal aging.", "content": "Effects of brain amyloid deposition and reduced glucose metabolism on the default mode of brain function in normal aging. Brain \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition during normal aging is highlighted as an initial pathogenetic event in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Many recent brain imaging studies have focused on areas deactivated during cognitive tasks [the default mode network (DMN), i.e., medial frontal gyrus/anterior cingulate cortex and precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex], where the strength of functional coordination was more or less affected by cerebral A\u03b2 deposits. In the present positron emission tomography study, to investigate whether regional glucose metabolic alterations and A\u03b2 deposits seen in nondemented elderly human subjects (n = 22) are of pathophysiological importance in changes of brain hemodynamic coordination in DMN during normal aging, we measured cerebral glucose metabolism with [(18)F]FDG, A\u03b2 deposits with [(11)C]PIB, and regional cerebral blood flow during control and working memory tasks by H(2)(15)O on the same day. Data were analyzed using both region of interest and statistical parametric mapping. Our results indicated that the amount of A\u03b2 deposits was negatively correlated with hemodynamic similarity between medial frontal and medial posterior regions, and the lower similarity was associated with poorer working memory performance. In contrast, brain glucose metabolism was not related to this medial hemodynamic similarity. These findings suggest that traceable A\u03b2 deposition, but not glucose hypometabolism, in the brain plays an important role in occurrence of neuronal discoordination in DMN along with poor working memory in healthy elderly people."}
{"id": "21801803", "title": "Biomarkers and evolution in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Biomarkers and evolution in Alzheimer disease. Brain regions and their highly neuroplastic long axonal connections that expanded rapidly during hominid evolution are preferentially affected by Alzheimer disease. There is no natural animal model with full disease pathology (neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic amyloid plaques of a severity seen in Alzheimer's disease brains). Biomarkers such as reduced glucose metabolism in association neocortex, defects in long white matter tracts, RNA neurochemical changes, and high CSF levels of total and phosphorylated tau protein, which are helpful to identify MCI and preclinical Alzheimer disease patients, may also provide insights into what brain changes led to this disease being introduced during hominid evolution."}
{"id": "21795034", "title": "Brain and systemic glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly following fish oil supplementation.", "content": "Brain and systemic glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly following fish oil supplementation. Cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRg) is lower in individuals affected by cognitive decline and dementia, especially in Alzheimer's disease. However, as yet there is no consensus as to whether CMRg decreases during healthy aging. Epidemiological studies show that weekly consumption of fish abundant in \u03c93 fatty acids has a protective effect on cognition during aging. Thus, the primary objective of this human study was to use positron emission tomography analysis with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose to evaluate whether supplementation with a fish oil rich in \u03c93 fatty acids increases cerebral glucose metabolism in young or elderly adults. Healthy young (23\u00b15y old; n=5) and elderly (76\u00b13y old; n=6) women and men were included in the study. Semi-quantitative expression of the data as 'standardized uptake values' showed that elderly participants had significantly lower cerebral glucose metabolism compared with the young group. However, when expressed quantitatively a CMRg, there was no effect of age or \u03c93 supplementation on glucose metabolism in any of the brains regions studied. Higher plasma triglyceride levels and higher plasma insulin levels were associated with lower CMRg in several regions, suggesting that a trend towards the metabolic syndrome may be associated with cerebral hypometabolism. We conclude that under these experimental conditions, \u03c93 supplementation did not affect brain glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly. Future studies in this area should address whether glucose intolerance or other conditions linked to the metabolic syndrome impact negatively on brain glucose metabolism and cognition."}
{"id": "21792570", "title": "Functional implications of hippocampal degeneration in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined DTI and PET study.", "content": "Functional implications of hippocampal degeneration in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined DTI and PET study. Hypometabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) is thought to arise in part due to AD-specific neuronal damage to the hippocampal formation. Here, we explored the association between microstructural alterations within the hippocampus and whole-brain glucose metabolism in subjects with AD, also in relation to episodic memory impairment. Twenty patients with early AD (Mini-Mental State Examination 25.7 \u00b1 1.7) were studied with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography and diffusion tensor imaging. Episodic memory performance was assessed using the free delayed verbal recall task (DVR). Voxel-wise relative FDG uptake was correlated to diffusivity indices of the hippocampus, followed by extraction of FDG uptake values from significant clusters. Linear regression analysis was performed to test for unique contributions of diffusivity and metabolic indices in the prediction of memory function. Diffusivity in the left anterior hippocampus negatively correlated with FDG uptake primarily in the left anterior hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus and the PCC (p < 0.005). The same correlation pattern was found for right hippocampal diffusivity (p < 0.05). In linear regression analysis, left anterior hippocampal diffusivity and FDG uptake from the PCC cluster were the only significant predictors for performance on DVR, together explaining 60.6% of the variance. We found an inverse association between anterior hippocampal diffusivity and PCC glucose metabolism, which was in turn strongly related to episodic memory performance in subjects with early AD. These findings support the diaschisis hypothesis of AD and implicate a dysfunction of structures along the hippocampal output pathways as a significant contributor to the genesis of episodic memory impairment."}
{"id": "21764801", "title": "Evaluation of a calibrated (18)F-FDG PET score as a biomarker for progression in Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Evaluation of a calibrated (18)F-FDG PET score as a biomarker for progression in Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment. Increasingly, clinical trials are being planned in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to prevent or delay the onset of dementia in Alzheimer disease (AD) by disease-modifying intervention. Inclusion of imaging techniques as biomarkers for patient selection and assessment of outcome is expected to increase trial efficacy. PET using (18)F-FDG provides objective information about the impairment of synaptic function and could, with appropriate standardization, qualify as a biomarker. We evaluated a predefined quantitative measure (PET score) that is extracted automatically from (18)F-FDG PET scans using a sample of controls (n = 44), patients with MCI (n = 94), and patients with mild AD (n = 40) from the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Subjects received 4 scans and clinical assessments over 2 y. PET scores provide much higher test-retest reliability than standard neuropsychologic test scores (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive [ADAS-cog] and Mini-Mental State Examination) and superior signal strength for measuring progression. At the same time, they are related linearly to ADAS-cog scores, thus providing a valid measure of cognitive impairment. In addition, PET scores at study entry in MCI patients significantly predict clinical progression to dementia with a higher accuracy than Mini-Mental State Examination and ADAS-cog. (18)F-FDG PET scores are a valid imaging biomarker to monitor the progression of MCI to AD. Their superior test-retest reliability and signal strength will allow the reduction in the number of subjects needed or shortening of study duration substantially."}
{"id": "21762928", "title": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD).", "content": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD). A subtle cognitive impairment can be detected early in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD). Executive, memory and visuospatial functions are specifically affected, but the underlying pathophysiological basis is not well elucidated yet and may be heterogeneous. The recent identification of a PD-related cognitive metabolic pattern (PDCP), including hypometabolism in associative frontal, parietal and posterior limbic structures, has integrated the classical notion of a striato-frontal syndrome at the basis of cognitive dys-function. Recent evidence suggests that whilst executive dys-function is seen in virtually all PD patients, visuospatial and memory impairment may share a higher risk for the subsequent development of dementia. By means of perfusion SPECT and [18F]FDG-PET, cortical dys-function may be highlighted since the early stages, it is more evident in PD patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and reaches the maximum in PD dementia (PDD). Posterior temporo-parieto-occipital dys-function in associative and limbic cortex, closely resembling that found in Alzheimer's disease patients, is found in PDD, with a more severe occipital hypometabolism and a relatively milder hypometabolism in medial temporal lobe structures. Furthermore, deficit of acetylcholinesterase (AchE) can be found by means of [11C]MP4A-PET already in early stage of PD, especially in posterior regions, then becoming more severe in PDD and in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Administration of AchE inhibitors to PDD patients increased brain metabolism in bilateral frontal and left parietal regions, and left posterior cingulate. Finally, the recent availability of radiopharmaceuticals able to disclose amyloid brain deposition has allowed to demonstrate amyloid load in a part of patients with PDD, possibly due to diffuse rather than neuritic plaques. Brain PET and SPECT have strongly contributed to the understanding of the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in PD and may serve as probes to monitor the effects of therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "21741446", "title": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease: a pilot study with the Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan.", "content": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease: a pilot study with the Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of fuzhisan (FZS, 10mg/day), a Chinese herbal medicine, on cerebral glucose metabolism and neuropsychological metrics in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). This was a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study. Twenty-two subjects were randomly assigned to groups that received FZS (n=12) or placebo (n=10). Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to study the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption (rCMRglc) at baseline and week 12. We evaluated the clinical efficacy of FZS on cognition and behavioral functions using the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) and the Neuropsychiatric Index (NPI), respectively. Compared with placebo, FZS significantly improved ADAS-Cog scores and NPI scores at week 12. Moreover, FZS treatment favorably improved rCMRglc in the bilateral temporal and parietal cortices, hippocampus, and posterior cingulate gyrus. These results suggest that FZS treatment may have a positive effect on cognition, behavioral functions, and rCMRglc in mild-to-moderate AD patients."}
{"id": "21737797", "title": "Synergistic memory impairment through the interaction of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and amlyloid toxicity in a rat model.", "content": "Synergistic memory impairment through the interaction of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and amlyloid toxicity in a rat model. Vascular pathology and Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology have been shown to coexist in the brains of dementia patients. We investigated how cognitive impairment could be exacerbated in a rat model of combined injury through the interaction of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and amyloid beta (A\u03b2) toxicity. In Wistar rats, chronic cerebral hypoperfusion was modeled by permanent occlusion of bilateral common carotid arteries (BCCAo). Further, AD pathology was modeled by bilateral intracerebroventricular A\u03b2 (A\u03b2 toxicity) using a nonphysiological A\u03b2 peptide (A\u03b2 25 to 35). The experimental animals were divided into 4 groups, including sham, single injury (A\u03b2 toxicity or BCCAo), and combined injury (BCCAo-A\u03b2 toxicity) groups (n=7 per group) . Cerebral blood flow and metabolism were measured using small animal positron emission tomography. A Morris water maze task, novel object location and recognition tests, and histological investigation, including neuronal cell death, apoptosis, neuroinflammation, and AD-related pathology, were performed. Spatial memory impairment was synergistically exacerbated in the BCCAo-A\u03b2 toxicity group as compared to the BCCAo or A\u03b2 toxicity groups (P<0.05). Compared to the sham group, neuroinflammation with microglial or astroglial activation was increased both in multiple white matter lesions and the hippocampus in other experimental groups. AD-related pathology was enhanced in the BCCAo-A\u03b2 toxicity group compared to the A\u03b2 toxicity group. Our experimental results support a clinical hypothesis of the deleterious interaction between chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and A\u03b2 toxicity. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion-induced perturbation in the equilibrium of AD-related pathology may exacerbate cognitive impairment in a rat model of combined injury."}
{"id": "21722919", "title": "P11 expression and PET in bipolar disorders.", "content": "P11 expression and PET in bipolar disorders. Bipolar disorder (BD) is a common mental disorder, subdivided into BD-I and BD-II. Currently, few biomarkers differentiate BD-I from BD-II. However, it is suggested that peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) mRNA levels of p11 and positron emission tomography (PET) might be potential biomarkers for BD. Healthy controls (HCs), BD-I, and BD-II patients in remission (n\u00a0=\u00a020 in each group) underwent a resting PET study with the radiotracer [(18)F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose ((18)F-FDG). PBMC p11 mRNA levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Comparing BD patients to HCs, normalized glucose metabolism (NGM) was higher in the hippocampus, parahippocampus, and amygdala, but lower in the anterior cingulate cortex (aCC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), insula and thalamus. Compared to BD-II, BD-I had hypometabolism of glucose in the aCC, bilateral middle and inferior gyrus, insula and striatum, and hypermetabolism of glucose in the left parahippocampus. PBMC p11 mRNA was over-expressed in both BD-I and BD-II, although there was no significant difference in its expression levels between BD-I and B-II patients. Further, there were significant positive correlations between PBMC p11 mRNA and NGM in the mPFC, aCC, left insula, bilateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and left middle, inferior and superior temporal gyri. Also, PBMC p11 mRNA was positively correlated to the number of depressive episodes in BD patients, especially in BD-I patients. This study demonstrates that PBMC p11 mRNA expression is associated with neural activation in the brain of BD patients and warrants a larger translational study to determine its clinical utility."}
{"id": "21718750", "title": "Staging Alzheimer's disease progression with multimodality neuroimaging.", "content": "Staging Alzheimer's disease progression with multimodality neuroimaging. Rapid developments in medical neuroimaging have made it possible to reconstruct the trajectory of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as it spreads through the living brain. The current review focuses on the progressive signature of brain changes throughout the different stages of AD. We integrate recent findings on changes in cortical gray matter volume, white matter fiber tracts, neuropathological alterations, and brain metabolism assessed with molecular positron emission tomography (PET). Neurofibrillary tangles accumulate first in transentorhinal and cholinergic brain areas, and 4-D maps of cortical volume changes show early progressive temporo-parietal cortical thinning. Findings from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) for assessment fiber tract integrity show cortical disconnection in corresponding brain networks. Importantly, the developmental trajectory of brain changes is not uniform and may be modulated by several factors such as onset of disease mechanisms, risk-associated and protective genes, converging comorbidity, and individual brain reserve. There is a general agreement between in vivo brain maps of cortical atrophy and amyloid pathology assessed through PET, reminiscent of post mortem histopathology studies that paved the way in the staging of AD. The association between in vivo and post mortem findings will clarify the temporal dynamics of pathophysiological alterations in the development of preclinical AD. This will be important in designing effective treatments that target specific underlying disease AD mechanisms."}
{"id": "21718326", "title": "PET/CT in diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "PET/CT in diagnosis of dementia. Clinical use of positron emission tomography (PET) is now well established in neurodegenerative disorders, especially in the diagnosis of dementia. Measurement of cerebral glucose metabolism is of significant value, and it facilitates early diagnosis, appropriate differential diagnosis, and the evaluation of drug treatment in patients with dementia. In addition, tracers offer new perspectives for studying the neuropathology of underlying dementia, such as the accumulation of amyloid proteins, tau-proteins, or the presence of neuroinflammation. Finally, PET tracer studies of different neurotransmitter systems in dementia may not only increase the understanding of pathophysiologic mechanisms of the different disorders, but also improve diagnostic accuracy. In conclusion, PET imaging with different tracers offers reliable biomarkers in dementia, which can assist clinicians in the diagnosis of different dementing disorders, especially in the situation of overlapping phenotypes."}
{"id": "21716034", "title": "Cerebral hypermetabolism demonstrated by FDG PET in familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Cerebral hypermetabolism demonstrated by FDG PET in familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Right cerebral and contralateral cerebellar hypermetabolism were observed on FDG PET in a 68-year-old woman with familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) at an early stage before seizures occurred. The disease progressed with frequent seizures, myoclonus, and a startle reaction. In all past reports, FDG PET studies demonstrated hypometabolism in the cerebrum, cerebellum, and thalamus in patients with CJD. Focal hypermetabolism corresponding with epileptic foci is a common finding in ictal epilepsy patients, and hypometabolism is common in patients with myoclonus or the startle reaction. This finding may reflect a prodromal pathophysiology of epilepsy. Attention should be paid to the diagnosis of CJD while using FDG PET."}
{"id": "21677252", "title": "Huntington's disease: effect of memantine on FDG-PET brain metabolism?", "content": "Huntington's disease: effect of memantine on FDG-PET brain metabolism? In this open-label pilot study, the authors evaluated the effect of memantine on the distribution of brain glucose metabolism in four Huntington's disease (HD) patients as determined by serial 18-fluoro-deoxyglucose [F(18)]FDG-PET scans over a period of 3-4 months (90-129 days, with one patient choosing to continue treatment over the 18-month follow-up period). The treatment regimen was well tolerated. No significant differences on neuropsychological parameters before and after treatment were detected; but the patient who continued treatment did not deteriorate at 18 months' reevaluation, whereas the three patients who had stopped treatment after 3 to 4 months had minor progression in all cognitive domains on re-evaluation 12 months after the end of treatment."}
{"id": "21675596", "title": "Bihemispheric cerebral FDG PET correlates of cognitive dysfunction as assessed by the CERAD in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Bihemispheric cerebral FDG PET correlates of cognitive dysfunction as assessed by the CERAD in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a variety of cognitive deficits which can be reliably assessed by the neuropsychological test battery of the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD), but the cerebral changes underlying the respective cognitive deficits are only partly understood. Measures of severity of dementia in AD as well as delayed episodic memory performance in mild cognitive impairment significantly correlated with bihemispheric cerebral glucose hypometabolism. We therefore hypothesized that the CERAD cognitive battery may represent cerebral dysfunction of both hemispheres in patients with AD. In 32 patients with AD, cerebral glucose metabolism was investigated using positron-emission-tomography with 18Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG PET) and associated with the test scores of the CERAD cognitive battery by statistical parametric mapping. Episodic memory scores significantly correlated with temporopari etal glucose metabolism of both hemispheres while delayed episodic memory significantly was correlated with the right frontotemporal cortices. Verbal fluency and naming scores significantly correlated with glucose metabolism in left temporoparietal and right frontal cortices, whereas constructional praxis predominantly correlated significantly with the bilateral precuneus. In conclusion, the results of our study demonstrate that not only memory function but also functions of language and constructional praxis in AD are associated with glucose metabolism as revealed by FDG PET in subsets of uni- and bilateral brain areas. The findings of our study for the first time demonstrate that in AD neuropsychological deficits as assessed by the CERAD refer to different cerebral sites of both hemispheres."}
{"id": "21670386", "title": "Longitudinal change of biomarkers in cognitive decline.", "content": "Longitudinal change of biomarkers in cognitive decline. To delineate the trajectories of A\u03b242 level in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), fludeoxyglucose F18 (FDG) uptake using positron emission tomography, and hippocampal volume using magnetic resonance imaging and their relative associations with cognitive change at different stages in aging and Alzheimer disease (AD). Cohort study. The 59 study sites for the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. A total of 819 participants 55 to 90 years of age with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment, and AD who were followed up during the period from 2005 to 2007. Rates of change in level of A\u03b242 in CSF, FDG uptake, hippocampal volume, and the Alzheimer Disease's Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale score during up to 36 months of follow-up by diagnostic group as well as prediction of cognitive change by each biomarker. Reductions in the level of A\u03b242 in CSF were numerically greater in participants with normal cognition than in participants with mild cognitive impairment or AD; whereas both glucose metabolic decline and hippocampal atrophy were significantly slower in participants with normal cognition than in participants with mild cognitive impairment or AD. Positive APOE4 status accelerated hippocampal atrophic changes in participants with mild cognitive impairment or AD, but did not modify rates of change in level of A\u03b242 in CSF or FDG uptake. The Alzheimer Disease's Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores were related only to the baseline level of A\u03b242 in CSF and the baseline FDG uptake in participants with normal cognition, which were about equally associated with change in FDG uptake and hippocampal volume in participants with mild cognitive impairment and best modeled by change in FDG uptake in participants with AD. Trajectories of A\u03b242 level in CSF, FDG uptake, and hippocampal volume vary across different cognitive stages. The longitudinal patterns support a hypothetical sequence of AD pathology in which amyloid deposition is an early event before hypometabolism or hippocampal atrophy, suggesting that biomarker prediction for cognitive change is stage dependent."}
{"id": "21646331", "title": "Atrophy, hypometabolism and white matter abnormalities in semantic dementia tell a coherent story.", "content": "Atrophy, hypometabolism and white matter abnormalities in semantic dementia tell a coherent story. Semantic dementia, in which there is progressive deterioration of semantic knowledge, is associated with focal, typically asymmetric, temporal lobe degeneration. The ventrorostral temporal lobe is most severely affected and there is concordance between atrophy and reduced metabolic activity. In this study, we confirmed the veracity of this claim using \u00b9\u2078F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and anatomical magnetic resonance images. The principal aim, however, was to understand the impact on neuronal projections from the ventrorostral temporal cortex lesion by studying the full extent of white matter changes, with no a priori assumptions about the nature or spatial location of the tracts involved. Using an unbiased voxel-wise approach known as tract-based spatial statistics, we compared results of whole-brain diffusion tensor imaging--absolute metrics of axial, radial and mean diffusion as well as fractional anisotropy--from 10 patients with mild/moderate semantic dementia and 21 matched controls. Distributions of increased absolute diffusivity and reduced fractional anisotropy for patients with semantic dementia were spatially concordant with each other. Abnormalities in all metrics were highly statistically significant in ventrorostral temporal white matter, more extreme on the left side, thus closely matching results from structural and functional imaging of grey matter. The most sensitive marker of change was radial diffusion. Local white matter tract abnormalities extended rostrally towards the frontal lobe and dorsocaudally towards the superior temporal and supramarginal gyri. To examine more remote changes, we performed a skeletonized probabilistic tractography analysis--'seeding' the rostral temporal voxels identified as abnormal in the patient group--in a healthy control group. Three major neural pathways were found to emanate from this 'seed region': uncinate, arcuate and inferior longitudinal fasciculi. At a less conservative threshold, tensor abnormalities in the semantic dementia group mapped onto the tractographies for the uncinate and arcuate bundles well beyond the rostral temporal lobe; this was not the case for the inferior longitudinal bundle, where abnormalities in semantic dementia did not extend caudal to the atrophic/hypometabolic zone. The results offer direct evidence for how the ventrorostral temporal lesion, proposed to be responsible for deteriorating semantic knowledge in semantic dementia and separate from 'classic' language areas, is associated with degeneration of efferent white matter projections to such language areas."}
{"id": "21640440", "title": "[Molecular neuroimaging in the study of cognitive impairment: contribution of the cerebral blood flow SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO and 18F-FDG PET/CT scan].", "content": "[Molecular neuroimaging in the study of cognitive impairment: contribution of the cerebral blood flow SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO and 18F-FDG PET/CT scan]. The aim of this study was to analyze cerebral perfusion and glucose metabolism in patients with cognitive impairment using cerebral blood flow (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans. Twenty-two patients with cognitive impairment were included: 4 subjective memory complaints (SMC), 8 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 5 prodromic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 5 AD. In each clinical group, (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans were performed. (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT showed regions of cerebral hypoperfusion in 15 patients and was normal in 7 of the 22 patients. (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan showed cerebral regional hypometabolism in 19 patients and was normal in the other 3 patients. The distribution of abnormalities on (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans was similar in 9 patients (2 SMC, 2 amnestic MCI, 2 prodromic AD, and 3 AD). In 6 patients (1 amnestic MCI, 2 prodromic AD, and 3 AD), FDG hypometabolism was more extensive than the cerebral hypoperfusion. Four patients (1SMC, 3 amnestic MCI) had an abnormal (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan and normal (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT. There were 3 patients (1 SMC 2, amnestic MCI) with normal (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans. (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans showed cerebral hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in patients with cognitive impairment, even in patients with clinical diagnosis of SMC. In patients with a normal cerebral blood flow SPECT, brain glucose cerebral hypometabolism can be detected. In some patients, the extension of FDG hypometabolism is more pronounced than that corresponding to the hypoperfusion area."}
{"id": "21630036", "title": "The concept of FDG-PET endophenotype in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The concept of FDG-PET endophenotype in Alzheimer's disease. Often viewed as a potential tool for preclinical diagnosis in early asymptomatic stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the term \"endophenotype\" has acquired a recent popularity in the field. In this review, we analyze the construct of endophenotype-originally designed to discover genes, and examine the literature on potential endophenotypes for the late-onset form of AD (LOAD). We focus on the [18F]-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET technique, which shows a characteristic pattern of hypometabolism in AD-related regions in asymptomatic carriers of the ApoE E4 allele and in children of AD mothers. We discuss the pathophysiological significance and the positive predictive accuracy of an FDG-endophenotype for LOAD in asymptomatic subjects, and discuss several applications of this endophenotype in the identification of both promoting and protective factors. Finally, we suggest that the term \"endophenotype\" should be reserved to the study of risk factors, and not to the preclinical diagnosis of LOAD."}
{"id": "21629258", "title": "Cerebral glucose utilisation in hepatitis C virus infection-associated encephalopathy.", "content": "Cerebral glucose utilisation in hepatitis C virus infection-associated encephalopathy. Patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection frequently show neuropsychiatric symptoms. This study aims to help clarify the neurochemical mechanisms behind these symptoms and to add further proof to the hypothesis that HCV may affect brain function. Therefore, 15 patients who reported increasing chronic fatigue, mood alterations, and/or cognitive decline since their HCV infection underwent neurologic and neuropsychological examination, magnetic resonance imaging, (18)F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography of the brain, and single photon emission tomography of striatal dopamine and midbrain serotonin transporter (SERT) availability. None of the patients had liver cirrhosis. Patients' data were compared with data of age-matched controls. In addition, regression analysis was performed between cognitive deficits, and mood and fatigue scores as dependent variables, and cerebral glucose metabolism, dopamine, or SERT availability as predictors. Patients showed significant cognitive deficits, significantly decreased striatal dopamine and midbrain SERT availability, and significantly reduced glucose metabolism in the limbic association cortex, and in the frontal, parietal, and superior temporal cortices, all of which correlated with dopamine transporter availability and psychometric results. Thus, the study provides further evidence of central nervous system affection in HCV-afflicted patients with neuropsychiatric symptoms. Data indicate alteration of dopaminergic neurotransmission as a possible mechanism of cognitive decline."}
{"id": "21619913", "title": "Latrepirdine increases cerebral glucose utilization in aged mice as measured by [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography.", "content": "Latrepirdine increases cerebral glucose utilization in aged mice as measured by [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. Latrepirdine is hypothesized to exert a unique mechanism of action involving stabilization of mitochondria that may have utility in treating Alzheimer's disease. However, the ability of latrepirdine to improve cognition in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is controversial due to a discrepancy between the positive signal reported in the multi-site phase II clinical trial where latrepirdine met all primary and secondary endpoints [Doody et al. (2008) Lancet 372:207-215], and the subsequent null effect observed in a multicenter, phase III trial. While dysfunction of mitochondria and abnormal energy metabolism has been linked to AD pathology, no studies have been reported that investigate latrepirdine's effect on cerebral glucose utilization (CGU). Glucose metabolism, following acute latrepirdine administration, can be used to help dose selection in Phase I dose-ranging studies. The aim of the current study was to assess changes in CGU in young and aged mice in vivo using [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) after acute treatment with latrepirdine. Two ages of B6SJLF2 mice (5 and 20 months old) were tested. Three test-retest FDG-PET baseline scans were assessed across all subjects. As CGU was heterogeneous in aged mice, compared to young mice, aged subjects were rank ordered and then counterbalanced into two CGU homogenous groups. In Studies 1 and 2, latrepirdine (1.0 mg/kg) significantly enhanced CGU in aged mice. In contrast, Study 3 revealed that latrepirdine did not modulate CGU in young mice. Monitoring changes in CGU in response to acute drug administration may represent an imaging biomarker for dose selection in AD. Further studies that would establish the translation from mice to non-human primates to humans need to be investigated to confirm the utility of FDG-PET in dose-selection for mitochondrial modulators."}
{"id": "21596699", "title": "Novel FDG-PET findings in anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis: a case based report.", "content": "Novel FDG-PET findings in anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis: a case based report. The clinical manifestation and nuclear imaging findings in a 15-year-old boy with anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis are described in this case report. The previously healthy patient presented with new onset hallucinations, seizure, and within a week, his mental status rapidly deteriorated to nonverbal with oro-lingual-facial dyskinesias. An extensive laboratory work-up for encephalopathy was negative. Repeated brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were normal. On day 26 of admission, nuclear imaging using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed global hypometobolism with a prominent focally intense hypermetabolic lesion in the right cerebellar cortex. Diagnosis of anti-NMDAR encephalitis was confirmed with quantitative serology. The patient showed clinical signs of improvement after 2 courses of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy over 4 weeks. On day 46, repeat brain FDG-PET showed overall improvement but in contrast to the previous, the right cerebellar cortex showed focal hypometabolism. This is the first reported case of such findings using FDG-PET in anti-NMDAR encephalitis."}
{"id": "21590591", "title": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea].", "content": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea]. We report about a woman of 60 years who received psychiatric inpatient treatment for an affective disorder with psychotic symptoms on several occasions. As time elapsed symptoms of dementia became more and more obvious. Despite a comprehensive workup with neuroimaging methods (SPECT, PET) the correct diagnosis of Huntington's Chorea was not attained until the characteristic movements appeared. Up till then pathologic movements had hardly occurred and there were no known cases of Huntington's Chorea in the family. This case is remarkable as the patient was not only treated with different antidepressants and antipsychotics but with a course of ECT too. Beyond this it shows the enormous stress this illness imposes on patients and their caregivers."}
{"id": "21585059", "title": "[Characteristics of PET cerebral functional imaging during \"Deqi\" of acupuncture in healthy volunteers].", "content": "[Characteristics of PET cerebral functional imaging during \"Deqi\" of acupuncture in healthy volunteers]. To observe the characteristics of needling sensation of \"Deqi\" (feelings of soreness, numbness, distending and heaviness, SNDH) by using positron emission tomography (PET) based on changes of glucose metabolism in different functional brain areas. Eighteen normal volunteers [9 men and 9 women, mean age (23.23-1- 3. 32) years] were randomly divided into control, Waiguan (SJ 5) and non-acupoint groups (n=6 in each group). SJ 5 and non-acupoint (the midpoint between SJ 5 and the running course of the Small Intestine Meridian on the right forearm) were punctured by using a sterilized filiform needle. PET scan of the brain began 40 min after intravenous 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) injection (0. 11 mCi/kg body weight, left opisthenar vein). Needling sensations including \"Deqi\"(n= 5), tingling (n 5) and no-apparently-specific-feeling (NASF) were acquired by acupuncture stimulation and grouped. The needling sensations were evaluated by using Visual Analog Scale(VAS). The acquired image data of different needling-sensation groups were analyzed using SPM 2. 0 software in the Matlab Platform. After receiving acupuncture stimulation of SJ 5, 5 volunteers in the Waiguan (SJ 5) group experienced fee- lings of SNDH, with the mean VAS score being 4.23 +/- 1. 50, and 5 volunteers of the non-acupoint group had a tingling feeling, with the mean VAS score being 5.73 2.40. The VAS score of the tingling group was significantly higher than that of SNDH group (P<0. 05). Compared with the NASF control group, the activated cerebral areas were Brodmann area (BA) 7, 13, 20, 22, 39, 42 and BA 45 in the SNDH group, mainly involving the left temporal lobe, superior temporal gyrus, etc. and being obviously different to those of the control group (P<0. 001,k>10 voxels). The activated cerebral areas in the tingling group were BA 18, 19, 22, 24, 25, 32, 36, 40 and BA 45, predominantly involving the left limbic lobe, hippocampal gyrus, etc. and being apparently different to those of the control group (P<0. 001,k> 10 voxels). Acupuncture of Waiguan (SJ 5) mainly produces feelings of soreness, numbness, distending and heaviness, and the activated cerebral areas mainly involve the left temporal lobe, superior temporal gyrus, etc. ; while acupuncture of its neighboring non-acupoint chiefly induces a feeling of tingling in the healthy subjects, and the activated regions predominately involve the left limbic lobe, hippocampal gyrus, etc."}
{"id": "21571793", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolic features of Parkinson disease and incident dementia: longitudinal study.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolic features of Parkinson disease and incident dementia: longitudinal study. Longitudinal studies in nondemented Parkinson disease (PD) subjects offer an opportunity to study the earliest regional cerebral subcortical and cortical metabolic changes underlying incident dementia in this disorder. Twenty-three PD subjects without dementia (Hoehn and Yahr stages I-III; age, 61.8 \u00b1 9.7 y; Mini-Mental State Examination, 28.0 \u00b1 1.4) and 27 controls (age, 59.8 \u00b1 11.5 y) underwent (18)F-FDG PET at study entry. PD subjects underwent yearly clinical assessment to determine conversion to dementia. The mean duration of follow-up was 3.9 \u00b1 1.2 y (range, 2.0-6.8 y). Follow-up (18)F-FDG PET was available in a subset of subjects at 2 or more years. Both volume-of-interest and 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) analyses were performed. Six subjects became demented (PDD), with a mean time of 3.8 \u00b1 1.7 y (range, 1.9-6.0 y) to development of dementia. Mean duration of disease before onset of dementia was 9.7 \u00b1 4.2 y (range, 3.1-14 y). There were significant metabolic reductions in the occipital (-11.8% vs. controls, F((2,22)) = 7.0, P = 0.002) and posterior cingulate (-12.1% vs. controls, F((2,22)) = 5.2, P = 0.009) cortices in PDD subjects at baseline, before diagnosis of dementia, compared with controls. Metabolism was most diminished in the visual association cortex (Brodmann area [BA] 18; -20.0% vs. control, F((2,22)) = 8.45, P = 0.0007) of PDD subjects. There was mild hypometabolism in the caudate nucleus (-8.4% vs. control, F((2,22)) = 3.2, P < 0.05). There was no significant hypometabolism in the temporal or frontal lobes. PD subjects who did not become demented (non-PDD), compared with controls, had reduced cerebral metabolism in the primary occipital cortex (BA 17) that was revealed only by 3D-SSP analysis. Follow-up scans in 5 PDD subjects at 2 y after study entry demonstrated a significant interval within-subject change in the thalamus (-11.4%), posterior cingulate (-9%), occipital (-7%), parietal (-7%), and frontal cortices (-7%) and mild reductions in the temporal cortex (-5%) and hippocampus (-3%), compared with study entry scans. Incident dementia in idiopathic PD is heralded by decreased metabolism in the visual association (BA 18) and posterior cingulate cortices, with mild involvement also of the caudate nucleus. Two-year follow-up data from 5 PDD converters show that progression to dementia is associated with mixed subcortical and cortical changes that involve the mesiofrontal lobes also. These findings provide insights into early metabolic features of parkinsonian dementia."}
{"id": "21571787", "title": "90Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan as consolidation therapy after autologous stem cell transplantation in aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma.", "content": "90Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan as consolidation therapy after autologous stem cell transplantation in aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Targeted radioimmunotherapy with (90)Y-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan is a novel therapeutic approach for CD20-positive relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Seven consecutive patients with CD20-positive aggressive NHL who did not fully respond to prior myeloablative chemotherapy were enrolled. A 14.8 MBq (0.4 mCi)/kg dose of (90)Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan was administered to all patients, and approximately 100 d afterward (18)F-FDG PET/CT was performed to assess response. PET/CT showed a complete response in 5 of 7 patients. Of the 2 nonresponsive patients, 1 showed persistent disease and the other progression. Toxicity included thrombocytopenia in all 7 patients and grade IV neutropenic fever in 1 patient. Despite the small series studied, we suggest that radioimmunotherapy is safe for consolidation in patients treated with high-dose chemotherapy for aggressive NHL and may provide clinical benefit in extensively pretreated patients."}
{"id": "21568913", "title": "Regional grey matter loss and brain disconnection across Alzheimer disease evolution.", "content": "Regional grey matter loss and brain disconnection across Alzheimer disease evolution. It is becoming increasingly clearer that the clinical manifestations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not only associated with regional grey matter (GM) damage, but also with abnormal integration between cortical brain regions by disconnection mechanism. This concept comes from the evidence that white matter (WM) damage (as assessed by diffusion MR imaging) can be observed in patients with AD since the early clinical stages, and it correlates with clinical measures of cognitive disability. In this perspective, several functional imaging studies, based on PET and resting state fMRI, have provided evidence that brain hypometabolism/disconnection may precede the occurrence of GM atrophy in certain regions of AD brains, such as the cingulate cortex. The cingulum represents the most prominent WM tract of the limbic system, being directly connected to the medial temporal lobe structures. Therefore, this structure likely contributes to changes in functional connectivity observed within the so called default-mode network of AD patients, and its damage is likely to play a remarkable role in the conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. Nowadays, the combination of several neuroimaging techniques that provide both, measures of regional GM loss and measures of functional and structural connectivity offer the opportunity to investigate in vivo the pathophysiological changes of brain tissue modifications across the clinical evolution of AD. This paper reviews the main MR based methods of investigation of brain tissue involvement in patients with AD and MCI, and the role they have played in clarifying the differential contribution of GM damage and brain disconnection to AD pathophysiology. This subject seems to be relevant for both, speculative aspects of neurology and application to clinical trials."}
{"id": "21543189", "title": "Improved social interaction and increased anterior cingulate metabolism after group reminiscence with reality orientation approach for vascular dementia.", "content": "Improved social interaction and increased anterior cingulate metabolism after group reminiscence with reality orientation approach for vascular dementia. A group reminiscence approach (GRA) with reality orientation (RO) is widely used as a psychosocial intervention for dementia. Since clinical effectiveness was reported for the intervention, interest has been directed toward areas of the neuronal network that might be being stimulated. We hypothesized that the frontal lobe associated with social interaction was being stimulated. To test this hypothesis, we studied 24 patients with vascular dementia. In addition to conventional care, a 1-h session of GRA with RO was provided once a week for 3 months in the GRA-RO arm (n=12). Only supportive care was provided in the control arm (n=12). Before and after the interventions, cognitive function, depressive state, and social activities were assessed. Since glucose metabolism is associated with brain function, cerebral glucose metabolism was measured by positron emission tomography (PET). Regarding behavioral improvement, 10 patients in the GRA-RO arm showed improvement compared with only two patients in the control arm, a significant difference. PET demonstrated that metabolism in the anterior cingulate was increased in the GRA-RO arm, whereas no significant changes were observed in the control arm. These results suggest that GRA-RO stimulates the anterior cingulate and has a positive effect on social interaction."}
{"id": "21532538", "title": "The dynamic marker hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease and its implications for clinical imaging.", "content": "The dynamic marker hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease and its implications for clinical imaging. In the last ten years the literature on Alzheimer's disease has focused on in vivo neurobiological changes. Extracellular beta-amyloid and intracellular hyperphosphorilated tau deposition are pivotal features and several authors have described their progression over time in pathological specimens. The revised criteria for Alzheimer's disease suggest that in vivo biomarkers reflecting neurobiological changes are useful for early diagnosis in the clinical practice. The most widely used biomarkers for the Alzheimer's disease are: Abeta42 and Tau levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); brain glucose hypometabolism detected by positron emission tomography (PET) using the 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose ([18F]FDG); brain structural and functional changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging and amyloid burden by PET using Carbon-11-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B [(11)C]PiB). In order to explain the latest in vivo observations, the dynamic biomarker hypothesis has been recently developed, integrating both pathological and clinical knowledge, and indicating which biomarkers might be more sensitive to disease state and progression at different stages. In this review, we will outline studies that support the dynamic hypothesis by: 1) testing slope differences among biomarkers; 2) describing how biomarkers map all neuropathological and clinical changes starting from the detection of amyloid burden, to neurodegeneration, and symptoms; and finally 3) identifying the best combination of biomarkers sensitive to prodromal AD in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21529844", "title": "Autonomic dysfunction in PD: a window to early detection?", "content": "Autonomic dysfunction in PD: a window to early detection? It has been suggested that autonomic dysfunction constitutes a biomarker for early detection of the disease process in Parkinson disease (PD). Recent findings based on cardiac sympathetic and striatal dopaminergic imaging in the same patients indicate that this view is overly simple. Although evidence of cardiac sympathetic denervation is associated with other non-motor manifestations such as anosmia, REM behavior disorder, dementia, baroreflex failure, and orthostatic hypotension (OH), across individual patients the severities of OH and of the cardiac sympathetic lesion (indicated by thoracic 6-[(18)F]fluorodopamine PET scanning) are unrelated to the severity of the putamen dopaminergic lesion (indicated by brain 6-[(18)F]fluorodopa PET scanning). Moreover, whereas cases have been reported with neuroimaging evidence of cardiac sympathetic denervation several years before motor onset of PD, in other cases loss of cardiac sympathetic innervation progresses approximately concurrently with the movement disorder or can even occur as a late finding. Bases for independent sympathetic noradrenergic and striatal dopaminergic lesions in Lewy body diseases remain poorly understood. In elderly patients with unexplained OH or other evidence of autonomic failure, it is reasonable for clinicians to look for subtle signs of parkinsonism, such as masked facies, cogwheel rigidity, and shuffling gate."}
{"id": "21525424", "title": "Distinct clinical and metabolic deficits in PCA and AD are not related to amyloid distribution.", "content": "Distinct clinical and metabolic deficits in PCA and AD are not related to amyloid distribution. Patients with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) often have Alzheimer disease (AD) at autopsy, yet are cognitively and anatomically distinct from patients with clinical AD. We sought to compare the distribution of \u03b2-amyloid and glucose metabolism in PCA and AD in vivo using Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and FDG-PET. Patients with PCA (n = 12, age 57.5 \u00b1 7.4, Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] 22.2 \u00b1 5.1), AD (n = 14, age 58.8 \u00b1 9.6, MMSE 23.8 \u00b1 6.7), and cognitively normal controls (NC, n = 30, age 73.6 \u00b1 6.4) underwent PiB and FDG-PET. Group differences in PiB distribution volume ratios (DVR, cerebellar reference) and FDG uptake (pons-averaged) were assessed on a voxel-wise basis and by comparing binding in regions of interest (ROIs). Compared to NC, both patients with AD and patients with PCA showed diffuse PiB uptake throughout frontal, temporoparietal, and occipital cortex (p < 0.0001). There were no regional differences in PiB binding between PCA and AD even after correcting for atrophy. FDG patterns in PCA and AD were distinct: while both groups showed hypometabolism compared to NC in temporoparietal cortex and precuneus/posterior cingulate, patients with PCA further showed hypometabolism in inferior occipitotemporal cortex compared to both NC and patients with AD (p < 0.05). Patients with AD did not show areas of relative hypometabolism compared to PCA. Fibrillar amyloid deposition in PCA is diffuse and similar to AD, while glucose hypometabolism extends more posteriorly into occipital cortex. Further studies are needed to determine the mechanisms of selective network degeneration in focal variants of AD."}
{"id": "21502595", "title": "Frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome: an SIH-like presentation mimicking FTD.", "content": "Frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome: an SIH-like presentation mimicking FTD. Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) is a relatively well-defined clinical syndrome. It is associated with frontal and temporal lobe structural/metabolic changes and pathologic findings of a neurodegenerative disease. We have been evaluating patients with clinical and imaging features partially consistent with bvFTD but with evidence also suggestive of brain sagging, which we refer to as frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome (FBSS). Retrospective medical chart review to identify all patients seen at our institution between 1996 and 2010, who had a clinical diagnosis of FTD and imaging evidence of brain sag. Eight patients, 7 male and 1 female, were diagnosed with FBSS. The median age at symptom onset was 53 years. All patients had insidious onset and slow progression of behavioral and cognitive dysfunction accompanied by daytime somnolence and headache. Of the 5 patients with functional imaging, all showed evidence of hypometabolism of the frontotemporal regions. On brain MRI, all patients had evidence of brain sagging with distortion of the brainstem; 3 patients had diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement. CSF opening pressure was varied and CSF protein was mildly elevated. A definite site of CSF leak was not identified by myelogram or cisternography, except in one patient with a site highly suggestive of leak who subsequently underwent surgery confirming a CSF leak. In 2 patients with a neuropathologic examination, there was no evidence of a neurodegenerative disease. This case series demonstrates that FBSS may mimic typical bvFTD but should be recognized as an unusual presentation that is potentially treatable."}
{"id": "21498904", "title": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention program on brain metabolism in amnestic mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention program on brain metabolism in amnestic mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheimer's disease. The effect of cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is largely unexplored. Therefore, we aimed to investigate clinical cognitive parameters and 18FDG PET to test for effects of a cognitive intervention in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) or mild AD. Patients with aMCI (n = 24) or mild AD (n = 15) were randomly assigned either to cognitive intervention groups (IGs), receiving weekly sessions of group-based multicomponent cognitive intervention, or active control groups (CGs), receiving pencil-paper exercises for self-study. We obtained resting-state FDG-PET scans and neuropsychological testing at baseline and after six-months. Normalized FDG-PET images were analyzed using voxel-based SPM5 approaches to determine longitudinal changes, group-by-time interactions, and correlations with neuropsychological outcome parameters. Primary global cognitive outcome was determined by analyses of covariance with MMSE and ADAS-cog scores as dependent measures. Both, aMCI and AD subgroups of CGs showed widespread bilateral cortical declines in FDG uptake, while the AD subgroup of IGs showed discrete decline or rather no decline in case of the aMCI subgroup. Group by time analyses revealed strongest attenuation of metabolic decline in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs, involving left superior temporal- and anterior cingulate gyrus. However, correlation analyses revealed only weak non-significant associations between increased FDG uptake and improvement in primary or secondary outcome parameters. Concurrently, there was significant improvement in global cognitive status in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs. A six-month cognitive intervention imparted cognitive benefits in patients with aMCI, which were concurrent with an attenuated decline of glucose metabolism in cortical regions affected by neurodegenerative AD."}
{"id": "21490054", "title": "Neuronal dysfunction and disconnection of cortical hubs in non-demented subjects with elevated amyloid burden.", "content": "Neuronal dysfunction and disconnection of cortical hubs in non-demented subjects with elevated amyloid burden. Disruption of functional connectivity between brain regions may represent an early functional consequence of \u03b2-amyloid pathology prior to clinical Alzheimer's disease. We aimed to investigate if non-demented older individuals with increased amyloid burden demonstrate disruptions of functional whole-brain connectivity in cortical hubs (brain regions typically highly connected to multiple other brain areas) and if these disruptions are associated with neuronal dysfunction as measured with fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography. In healthy subjects without cognitive symptoms and patients with mild cognitive impairment, we used positron emission tomography to assess amyloid burden and cerebral glucose metabolism, structural magnetic resonance imaging to quantify atrophy and novel resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging processing methods to calculate whole-brain connectivity. Significant disruptions of whole-brain connectivity were found in amyloid-positive patients with mild cognitive impairment in typical cortical hubs (posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus), strongly overlapping with regional hypometabolism. Subtle connectivity disruptions and hypometabolism were already present in amyloid-positive asymptomatic subjects. Voxel-based morphometry measures indicate that these findings were not solely a consequence of regional atrophy. Whole-brain connectivity values and metabolism showed a positive correlation with each other and a negative correlation with amyloid burden. These results indicate that disruption of functional connectivity and hypometabolism may represent early functional consequences of emerging molecular Alzheimer's disease pathology, evolving prior to clinical onset of dementia. The spatial overlap between hypometabolism and disruption of connectivity in cortical hubs points to a particular susceptibility of these regions to early Alzheimer's-type neurodegeneration and may reflect a link between synaptic dysfunction and functional disconnection."}
{"id": "21471644", "title": "Spatial distribution of glucose hypometabolism induced by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin in monkeys.", "content": "Spatial distribution of glucose hypometabolism induced by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin in monkeys. Intracerebroventricular injection of streptozotocin (icv-STZ) in rodents induces cellular and behavioral features mimicking Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the effect of icv-STZ in terms of regional cerebral glucose metabolism has not yet been examined in vivo. Given that regionally specific hypometabolism of glucose is a consistent neuroimaging marker in early AD, we monitored 18F-deoxyglucose uptake using a high-resolution micro-PET after icv-STZ in non-human primates. Two cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) received STZ (2 mg/kg), and another two were given normal saline as controls, at the cerebellomedullary cistern (CM) three times (day 1, 7, and 14). FDG-PET, as well as MRI for structural evaluation, was performed immediately before, six weeks after, and 12 weeks after the first icv injection. In the STZ group, FDG uptake decreased significantly in comparison to the pre-injection baseline, at the precuneus, the posterior cingulate, and medial temporal cortices. Increase in sulcal markings suggesting brain atrophy was observed by MRI at six weeks post-injection. The structural changes normalized at 12 weeks, but the reduced FDG uptake persisted at the same loci. The cortical distribution of glucose hypometabolism was similar to that at early stages of AD patients. The findings demonstrate that the effect of icv-STZ is regionally specific, lending further support for the method as a model of AD pathogenesis."}
{"id": "21459091", "title": "Metabolic and type 1 cannabinoid receptor imaging of a transgenic rat model in the early phase of Huntington disease.", "content": "Metabolic and type 1 cannabinoid receptor imaging of a transgenic rat model in the early phase of Huntington disease. Several lines of evidence imply early alterations in metabolic and endocannabinoid neurotransmission in Huntington disease (HD). Using [(18)F]MK-9470 and small animal PET, we investigated for the first time cerebral changes in type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor binding in vivo in pre-symptomatic and early symptomatic rats of HD (tgHD), in relation to glucose metabolism, morphology and behavioral testing for motor and cognitive function. Twenty-three Sprague-Dawley rats (14 tgHD and 9 wild-types) were investigated between the age of 2 and 11 months. Relative glucose metabolism and parametric CB1 receptor images were anatomically standardized to Paxinos space and analyzed voxel-wise. Volumetric microMRI imaging was performed to assess HD neuropathology. Within the first 10 months, bilateral volumes of caudate-putamen and lateral ventricles did not significantly differ between genotypes. Longitudinal- and genotype evolution showed that relative [(18)F]MK-9470 binding progressively decreased in the caudate-putamen and lateral globus pallidus of tgHD rats (-8.3%, p\u22641.1\u00d710(-5) at 5 months vs. -10.9%, p<1.5\u00d710(-5) at 10 months). In addition, relative glucose metabolism increased in the bilateral sensorimotor cortex of 2-month-old tgHD rats (+8.1%, p\u22641.5\u00d710(-5)), where it was positively correlated to motor function at that time point. TgHD rats developed cognitive deficits at 6 and 11 months of age. Our findings point to early regional dysfunctions in endocannabinoid signalling, involving the lateral globus pallidus and caudate-putamen. In vivo CB1 receptor measurements using [(18)F]MK-9470 may thus be a useful early biomarker for HD. Our results also provide evidence of subtle motor and cognitive deficits at earlier stages than previously described."}
{"id": "21448943", "title": "Posterior hypoperfusion in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia measured with arterial spin labeling MRI.", "content": "Posterior hypoperfusion in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia measured with arterial spin labeling MRI. To determine whether quantitative arterial spin labeling (ASL) can be used to evaluate regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and without dementia (PD). Thirty-five PD patients, 11 PDD patients, and 35 normal controls were scanned by using a quantitative ASL method with a 3 Tesla MRI unit. Regional cerebral blood flow was compared in the posterior cortex using region-of-interest analysis. PD and PDD patients showed lower regional cerebral blood flow in the posterior cortex than normal controls (P = 0.002 and P = 0.001, respectively, analysis of variance with a Bonferroni post hoc test). This is the first study to detect hypoperfusion in the posterior cortex in PD and PDD patients using ASL perfusion MRI. Because ASL perfusion MRI is completely noninvasive and can, therefore, safely be used for repeated assessments, this method can be used to monitor treatment effects or disease progression in PD."}
{"id": "21429865", "title": "Spatial patterns of brain amyloid-beta burden and atrophy rate associations in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Spatial patterns of brain amyloid-beta burden and atrophy rate associations in mild cognitive impairment. Amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation in the brain is thought to be one of the earliest events in Alzheimer's disease, possibly leading to synaptic dysfunction, neurodegeneration and cognitive/functional decline. The earliest detectable changes seen with neuroimaging appear to be amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation detected by (11)C-labelled Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography imaging. However, some individuals tolerate high brain amyloid-\u03b2 loads without developing symptoms, while others progressively decline, suggesting that events in the brain downstream from amyloid-\u03b2 deposition, such as regional brain atrophy rates, play an important role. The main purpose of this study was to understand the relationship between the regional distributions of increased amyloid-\u03b2 and the regional distribution of increased brain atrophy rates in patients with mild cognitive impairment. To simultaneously capture the spatial distributions of amyloid-\u03b2 and brain atrophy rates, we employed the statistical concept of parallel independent component analysis, an effective method for joint analysis of multimodal imaging data. Parallel independent component analysis identified significant relationships between two patterns of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition and atrophy rates: (i) increased amyloid-\u03b2 burden in the left precuneus/cuneus and medial-temporal regions was associated with increased brain atrophy rates in the left medial-temporal and parietal regions; and (ii) in contrast, increased amyloid-\u03b2 burden in bilateral precuneus/cuneus and parietal regions was associated with increased brain atrophy rates in the right medial temporal regions. The spatial distribution of increased amyloid-\u03b2 and the associated spatial distribution of increased brain atrophy rates embrace a characteristic pattern of brain structures known for a high vulnerability to Alzheimer's disease pathology, encouraging for the use of (11)C-labelled Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography measures as early indicators of Alzheimer's disease. These results may begin to shed light on the mechanisms by which amyloid-\u03b2 deposition leads to neurodegeneration and cognitive decline and the development of a more specific Alzheimer's disease-specific imaging signature for diagnosis and use of this knowledge in the development of new anti-therapies for Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21382329", "title": "[Neuroimaging Alzheimer's disease: early diagnosis, monitoring, and mechanism understanding].", "content": "[Neuroimaging Alzheimer's disease: early diagnosis, monitoring, and mechanism understanding]. Neuroimaging offers a promising tool for the priority goals of current researches in Alzheimer's disease (AD) including early diagnosis, monitoring the progression of the disease and understanding the underlying mechanisms. The brain profiles of atrophy and hypometabolism associated with AD are well known and they can be used as support for early diagnosis, although the accuracy of each of these biomarkers on its own is not sufficient. An increasing number of studies highlights the relevance of disconnection processes in the development and progression of AD. The recent development of PET tracers such as the Pittsburg compound (PiB) allowing to visualize in vivo one of the neuropathological lesions characterizing AD (i.e. beta-amyloid depositions) offers a unique opportunity to better understand the mechanisms underlying this multifaceted disease."}
{"id": "21370274", "title": "Caudate glucose hypometabolism in a subject carrying an unstable allele of intermediate CAG(33) repeat length in the Huntington's disease gene.", "content": "Caudate glucose hypometabolism in a subject carrying an unstable allele of intermediate CAG(33) repeat length in the Huntington's disease gene."}
{"id": "21329844", "title": "Positron emission tomography measurement of periodontal 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake is associated with histologically determined carotid plaque inflammation.", "content": "Positron emission tomography measurement of periodontal 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake is associated with histologically determined carotid plaque inflammation. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that metabolic activity within periodontal tissue (a possible surrogate for periodontal inflammation) predicts inflammation in a remote atherosclerotic vessel, utilizing (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Several lines of evidence establish periodontal disease as an important risk factor for atherosclerosis. FDG-PET imaging is an established method for measuring metabolic activity in human tissues and blood vessels. One hundred twelve patients underwent FDG-PET imaging 92 \u00b1 5 min after FDG administration (13 to 25 mCi). Periodontal FDG uptake was measured by obtaining standardized uptake values from the periodontal tissue of each patient, and the ratio of periodontal to background (blood) activity was determined (TBR). Standardized uptake value measurements were obtained in the carotid and aorta as well as in a venous structure. Localization of periodontal, carotid, and aortic activity was facilitated by PET coregistration with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. A subset of 16 patients underwent carotid endarterectomy within 1 month of PET imaging, during which atherosclerotic plaques were removed and subsequently stained with anti-CD68 antibodies to quantify macrophage infiltration. Periodontal FDG uptake was compared with carotid plaque macrophage infiltration. Periodontal FDG uptake (TBR) is associated with carotid TBR (R = 0.64, p < 0.0001), as well as aortic TBR (R = 0.38; p = 0.029). Moreover, a strong relationship was observed between periodontal TBR and histologically assessed inflammation within excised carotid artery plaques (R = 0.81, p < 0.001). FDG-PET measurements of metabolic activity within periodontal tissue correlate with macrophage infiltration within carotid plaques. These findings provide direct evidence for an association between periodontal disease and atherosclerotic inflammation."}
{"id": "21325773", "title": "Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and occipital hypoperfusion in a patient with DLB.", "content": "Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and occipital hypoperfusion in a patient with DLB. A 76-year-old woman presented with catatonia, refusal to eat due to delusion, and visual hallucination. Single photon emission computed tomography showed remarkable occipital hypoperfusion and frontal hyperperfusion. (123)I metaiodobenzyl guanidine myocardial scintigraphy revealed decreased uptake. She was diagnosed as probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Intravenous or oral L-dopa had no effect on catatonia. Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and visual hallucination. Cerebral blood flow of the frontal and occipital lobes seemed to be normalized. Occipital hypoperfusion is one of the features of DLB. Although the mechanism of perfusion abnormality in DLB remains to be clarified, our case suggested that it might be reversible."}
{"id": "21325653", "title": "Amyloid PET imaging in patients with mild cognitive impairment: a 2-year follow-up study.", "content": "Amyloid PET imaging in patients with mild cognitive impairment: a 2-year follow-up study. Patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have greater risk of conversion to Alzheimer disease (AD). Increased brain amyloid burden in AD and MCI has been demonstrated with PET using [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) as a tracer. To evaluate change in \u03b2-amyloid deposition in with MCI during 2-year follow-up. Patients with MCI and controls were studied with [(11)C] PiB PET, MRI, and neuropsychometry at baseline and these investigations were repeated in patients with MCI after follow-up. Those patients with MCI converting to AD during follow-up had greater [(11)C] PiB retention in the posterior cingulate (p=0.020), in the lateral frontal cortex (p=0.006), in the temporal cortex (p=0.022), in the putamen (p=0.041), and in the caudate nucleus (p=0.025) as compared to nonconverters. In converters, there was no significant change in [(11)C] PiB uptake, whereas an increase was seen as compared to baseline in nonconverters in the anterior and posterior cingulate, temporal and parietal cortices, and putamen. Hippocampal atrophy was greater in converters at baseline than in nonconverters, but increased significantly in both groups during follow-up. Hippocampal atrophy and amyloid deposition seem to dissociate during the evolution of MCI, the atrophy increasing clearly and [(11)C] PiB retention changing modestly when conversion to AD occurs. Longer follow-up is needed to determine whether nonconverters would convert to AD later, which would suggest accelerated [(11)C] PiB retention preceding clinical conversion."}
{"id": "21321269", "title": "Dual-biomarker imaging of regional cerebral amyloid load and neuronal activity in dementia with PET and 11C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B.", "content": "Dual-biomarker imaging of regional cerebral amyloid load and neuronal activity in dementia with PET and 11C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B. PET studies with biomarkers of regional neuronal activity (cerebral glucose metabolism or blood flow [CBF]) and amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) depositions provide complementary information for the early diagnosis of dementia and follow-up of patients with dementia. We investigated the validity of relative regional CBF estimates (R(1)) gained from pharmacokinetic analyses of (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB) PET studies as a marker of neuronal activity and neurodegeneration. Twenty-two patients with cognitive impairment (16 patients with early Alzheimer disease) underwent (18)F-FDG and (11)C-PIB PET studies for the assessment of regional glucose metabolism and A\u03b2 load. Parametric images of R(1) (relative CBF) and binding potential (BP(ND); A\u03b2 load) were generated by 2-step simplified reference tissue model (SRTM2) analyses of dynamic (11)C-PIB data. Volume-of-interest and voxel-based statistical analyses were performed to investigate the association between normalized (18)F-FDG uptake and (11)C-PIB R(1) and the correlation of these measures with symptom severity (Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] scores) in patients with Alzheimer disease. SRTM2 analyses provided high-quality (11)C-PIB R(1) images that were comparable to (18)F-FDG PET images. Regional (11)C-PIB R(1) values strongly correlated with normalized regional (18)F-FDG uptake when correlations were calculated separately for each patient (R(2) [mean \u00b1 SD], 0.73 \u00b1 0.11) or across all regions of all patients (R(2), 0.62). A regression model including (18)F-FDG uptake, subject identification, and region grouping (into cortical, subcortical, and limbic regions to allow for possible differences in flow/metabolism coupling) accounted for 86% of total (11)C-PIB R(1) variability. Voxel-based correlation analyses of (18)F-FDG uptake and (11)C-PIB R(1) with MMSE scores revealed similar core findings of positive correlations in the posterior cingulate gyrus/precuneus and negative correlations (preserved activity) in the bilateral sensorimotor cortex. There was no correlation between A\u03b2 load (BP(ND)) and MMSE scores. These results strongly suggest that (11)C-PIB R(1) can serve as a complementary biomarker of neuronal activity and, thus, neurodegeneration in addition to A\u03b2 load given by (11)C-PIB BP(ND). Further studies are needed to validate the diagnostic value of dual-biomarker (11)C-PIB PET studies in comparison with combined (18)F-FDG and (11)C-PIB PET studies. Compared with the latter, dual-biomarker (11)C-PIB PET greatly reduces costs and burden for patients."}
{"id": "21318476", "title": "Relationships between hippocampal microstructure, metabolism, and function in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationships between hippocampal microstructure, metabolism, and function in early Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal microstructural integrity and glucose metabolism of the hippocampus are common in subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) that typically manifest as episodic memory impairment. The above-tissue alterations can be captured in vivo using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET). Here, we explored relationships between the above neuroimaging and cognitive markers of early AD-specific hippocampal damage. Twenty patients with early AD (MMSE 25.7\u00a0\u00b1\u00a01.7) were studied using DTI and FDG-PET. Episodic memory performance was assessed using the free delayed verbal recall task (DVR). In the between-modality correlation analysis, FDG uptake was strongly associated with diffusivity in the left anterior hippocampus only (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.81, p\u00a0<\u00a00.05 Bonferroni's corrected for multiple tests). Performance on DVR significantly correlated with left anterior (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.80, p\u00a0<\u00a00.05) and left mean (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.72, p\u00a0<\u00a00.05) hippocampal diffusivity, while the correlation with left anterior FDG uptake did not reach statistical significance (r\u00a0=\u00a00.52, n.s.). DTI-derived diffusivity of the anterior hippocampus might be a sensitive early marker of hippocampal dysfunction as reflected at the synaptic and cognitive levels. This neurobiological distinction of the anterior hippocampus might be related to the disruption of the perforant pathway that is known to occur early in the course of AD."}
{"id": "21297272", "title": "Time course of glucose metabolism in relation to cognitive performance and postmortem neuropathology in Met146Val PSEN1 mutation carriers.", "content": "Time course of glucose metabolism in relation to cognitive performance and postmortem neuropathology in Met146Val PSEN1 mutation carriers. Studies in carriers of mutations that cause early-onset familial Alzheimer\u2019s disease (eoFAD) are of significant interest.We showed previously that regional glucose hypometabolism could be detected many years before disease onset in presenilin 1(PSEN1) mutation carriers. Here we studied four members of a family with a Met146Val PSEN1 mutation, two symptomatic carriers and two non-carriers, longitudinally with 18F-FDG PET over a period of about two and four years, respectively. The two mutation carriers showed global cortical glucose hypometabolism over time with the most distinct decline occurring in the posterior cingulate, the parietal and parietotemporal cortex, which was also observed when compared with a group of 23 healthy controls and a group of 27 sporadic Alzheimer\u2019s disease (sAD) patients. This decline correlated with cognitive deterioration overtime as measured by neuropsychological tests. Postmortem examination of brain tissue revealed substantially elevated levels of AD type neuropathology in terms of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the two mutation carriers compared with a reference group of 249 sAD patients. In the mutation carriers, the amount of neuritic plaques but not neurofibrillary tangles correlated hereby significantly with regional glucose metabolism as measured by 18F-FDG on the last scanning occasions, which were performed four and approximately five years before death, respectively. We here show that FDG PET can depict in vivo the aggressive disease progression in eoFAD mutation carriers in relationship to neuropathology."}
{"id": "21284041", "title": "Association of olfactory dysfunction and brain. Metabolism in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Association of olfactory dysfunction and brain. Metabolism in Parkinson's disease. Hyposmia is one of the cardinal early symptoms of Parkinson disease (PD). Accumulating clinical and pathological evidence suggests that dysfunction of the olfactory-related cortices may be responsible for the impaired olfactory processing observed in PD; however, there are no clear data showing a direct association between altered brain metabolism and hyposmia in PD. In this study, we evaluated brain glucose metabolism and smell-identification ability in 69 Japanese patients with nondemented PD. Olfactory function was assessed using the Odor Stick Identification Test for Japanese. The regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption at rest was measured using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and was analyzed using SPM-based group comparisons and the brain-behavior partial least-squares method. We found that olfactory dysfunction was closely related to cognitive dysfunction, including memory impairment. Moreover, brain-behavior partial least-squares analysis revealed that odor-identification performance was closely associated with broad cortical dysfunction, including dysfunction of the piriform cortex and amygdala. Our results suggest that the cognitive deficit in olfactory perception is an important aspect of hyposmia in PD and that this deficit is caused by altered brain metabolism in the amygdala and piriform cortex."}
{"id": "21280088", "title": "Longitudinal assessment of A\u03b2 and cognition in aging and Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Longitudinal assessment of A\u03b2 and cognition in aging and Alzheimer disease. Assess A\u03b2 deposition longitudinally and explore its relationship with cognition and disease progression. Clinical follow-up was obtained 20 \u00b1 3 months after [\u00b9\u00b9C]Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-positron emission tomography in 206 subjects: 35 with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), 65 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 106 age-matched healthy controls (HCs). A second PiB scan was obtained at follow-up in 185 subjects and a third scan after 3 years in 57. At baseline, 97% of DAT, 69% of MCI, and 31% of HC subjects showed high PiB retention. At 20-month follow-up, small but significant increases in PiB standardized uptake value ratios were observed in the DAT and MCI groups, and in HCs with high PiB retention at baseline (5.7%, 2.1%, and 1.5%, respectively). Increases were associated with the number of apolipoprotein E \u03b54 alleles. There was a weak correlation between PiB increases and decline in cognition when all groups were combined. Progression to DAT occurred in 67% of MCI with high PiB versus 5% of those with low PiB, but 20% of the low PiB MCI subjects progressed to other dementias. Of the high PiB HCs, 16% developed MCI or DAT by 20 months and 25% by 3 years. One low PiB HC developed MCI. A\u03b2 deposition increases slowly from cognitive normality to moderate severity DAT. Extensive A\u03b2 deposition precedes cognitive impairment, and is associated with ApoE genotype and a higher risk of cognitive decline in HCs and progression from MCI to DAT over 1 to 2 years. However, cognitive decline is only weakly related to change in A\u03b2 burden, suggesting that downstream factors have a more direct effect on symptom progression."}
{"id": "21276863", "title": "Impact of EEG-vigilance on brain glucose uptake measured with [(18)F]FDG and PET in patients with depressive episode or mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Impact of EEG-vigilance on brain glucose uptake measured with [(18)F]FDG and PET in patients with depressive episode or mild cognitive impairment. [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ([(18)F]FDG-PET) is a well-established method for the examination of the cerebral glucose metabolism of patients with affective disorder or memory impairment. An understudied question is how far results are influenced by interindividual differences in central nervous arousal as assessed with electroencephalogram (EEG-vigilance) during the PET recording. Building upon previous neuroimaging studies, we supposed an association between EEG-vigilance and normalized brain [(18)F]FDG-uptake (nFDGu) as measured by [(18)F]FDG-PET. For the first time, the present study exploratively investigated this association in a routine diagnostic work-up. Simultaneous 31-channel EEG and [(18)F]FDG-PET under resting conditions were acquired from 14 patients with depressive episode or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). EEG-vigilance was automatically classified by using the VIGALL algorithm (Vigilance Algorithm Leipzig). A nonparametric voxelwise simple linear regression with vigilance measure as predictor and nFDGu as criterion was performed using the Statistical nonParametric Mapping toolbox. The main finding was a significant negative correlation between vigilance measure and nFDGu in bilateral frontal and temporal regions, bilateral cingulate gyrus and right thalamus with vigilance-related changes of nFDGu between 17.1 and 44.4%. Simultaneous EEG and [(18)F]FDG-PET under resting conditions revealed that brain regions associated with EEG-vigilance partly overlapped with regions of impaired nFDGu in depression and MCI, as reported by previous studies. Vigilance-related changes of nFDGu were about the same magnitude as disease-related metabolic changes in patients with affective disorder or memory impairment as reported in previous studies. Therefore, our data suggest that differences in EEG-vigilance might influence alterations of nFDGu in disorders such as depression or MCI. Whether this possible impact of vigilance on nFDGu should be taken into account during the routine diagnostic application of [(18)F]FDG-PET has to be explored in future studies with larger patient groups."}
{"id": "21276856", "title": "Characterizing Alzheimer's disease using a hypometabolic convergence index.", "content": "Characterizing Alzheimer's disease using a hypometabolic convergence index. This article introduces a hypometabolic convergence index (HCI) for the assessment of Alzheimer's disease (AD); compares it to other biological, cognitive and clinical measures; and demonstrates its promise to predict clinical decline in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients using data from the AD Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). The HCI is intended to reflect in a single measurement the extent to which the pattern and magnitude of cerebral hypometabolism in an individual's fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) image correspond to that in probable AD patients, and is generated using a fully automated voxel-based image-analysis algorithm. HCIs, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) hippocampal volume measurements, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) assays, memory test scores, and clinical ratings were compared in 47 probable AD patients, 21 MCI patients who converted to probable AD within the next 18months, 76 MCI patients who did not, and 47 normal controls (NCs) in terms of their ability to characterize clinical disease severity and predict conversion rates from MCI to probable AD. HCIs were significantly different in the probable AD, MCI converter, MCI stable and NC groups (p=9e-17) and correlated with clinical disease severity. Using retrospectively characterized threshold criteria, MCI patients with either higher HCIs or smaller hippocampal volumes had the highest hazard ratios (HRs) for 18-month progression to probable AD (7.38 and 6.34, respectively), and those with both had an even higher HR (36.72). In conclusion, the HCI, alone or in combination with certain other biomarker measurements, has the potential to help characterize AD and predict subsequent rates of clinical decline. More generally, our conversion index strategy could be applied to a range of imaging modalities and voxel-based image-analysis algorithms."}
{"id": "21275607", "title": "A model for assessing cognitive impairment after fractionated whole-brain irradiation in nonhuman primates.", "content": "A model for assessing cognitive impairment after fractionated whole-brain irradiation in nonhuman primates. To investigate the effect of fractionated whole-brain irradiation on nonhuman primates, 6-9-year-old male rhesus monkeys were irradiated with 40 Gy delivered as two 5-Gy fractions/week for 4 weeks. Cognitive function was assessed 5 days/week for 4 months prior to fractionated whole-brain irradiation and for 11 months after irradiation using a Delayed-Match-to-Sample (DMS) task at both low and high cognitive loads. Local rates of cerebral glucose metabolism were measured prior to and 9 months after irradiation using [(18)F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose positron emission tomography. Low cognitive load trials did not reveal a significant reduction in performance until 7 months after irradiation; performance then declined progressively. In high cognitive load trials, the initial impairment was observed \u223c1 month after irradiation. This was followed by a transient recovery period over the next 1-2 months, after which performance declined progressively through 11 months after irradiation. Nine months after irradiation, glucose uptake during the DMS task was decreased in the cuneate and prefrontal cortex and was increased in the cerebellum and thalamus compared with the levels prior to irradiation. Results from this pilot study suggest that the radiation-induced changes in cognition and brain metabolism observed in rhesus monkeys may be similar to those observed in brain tumor patients receiving brain irradiation."}
{"id": "21195652", "title": "Amyloid and glucose imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple systems atrophy.", "content": "Amyloid and glucose imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple systems atrophy. Multiple Systems Atrophy (MSA) and Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) can present with both REM behavior disorder and severe autonomic dysfunction. In rare occasions, patients with MSA progress to cognitive impairment and even dementia. Positron emission topography (PET) imaging using both the amyloid ligand Pittsburgh Compound B (11C-PiB) and 18 flurodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) was used to ascertain the presence of amyloid and pattern of glucose metabolic derangement in both disorders. Patients diagnosed with probable DLB or MSA, with clinical symptoms of either REM Behavior Disorder (RBD), Parkinsonism, or dysautonomia were prospectively identified. All underwent both 11C-PiB and 18F-FDG PET imaging. Statistical comparison between DLB, MSA, and normal controls was performed. Six patients, 3 with DLB, 2 with Parkinson predominant MSA (MSA-P), and 1 with cerebellar predominant MSA (MSA-C) were identified. Increased level of PiB retention was noted in all patients diagnosed with DLB, but was absent in MSA. In those with DLB, glucose hypometabolism corresponded with regions of amyloid presence, and included prefrontal, parietotemporal, occipital and primary visual cortex regions. MSA patients were distinguished by cerebellar glucose hypometabolism. These findings emphasize the distinguishing characteristics between the alpha-synuclein related disorders of DLB and MSA. The absence of amyloid in the cases of MSA is a possible distinguishing characteristic of the disorder."}
{"id": "21157026", "title": "Long-term effects of galantamine treatment on brain functional activities as measured by PET in Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Long-term effects of galantamine treatment on brain functional activities as measured by PET in Alzheimer's disease patients. The effects of galantamine (16 to 24 mg/day) treatment on brain functional activities (blood flow and glucose metabolism) were examined in 18 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) in relation to brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and nicotinic receptors and cognitive function. The study consisted of an initial double-blind phase of three months (short-term) followed by an open-label phase until twelve months after the beginning of the study (long-term). The AD patients underwent positron emission tomography (PET) studies with the tracers [15O]-H2O for measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) at baseline, 3 weeks, 3 and 12 months treatment, and [18F]-fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) for measurement of regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) at baseline and 12 months. A battery of neuropsychological assessments was performed on each patient in order to follow changes in cognition during the treatment period. Throughout the study, different cortical areas showed significant increases in rCBF after galantamine treatment. rCBF positively correlated with AChE activity, nicotinic receptors and cognition. In addition to these positive changes, an increase in rCMRglc in the frontal brain region and stabilization in other cortical areas was observed after 12 months galantamine treatment. This stabilization in rCMRglc was also correlated with a stabilization of cognition. Our results ultimately suggest that treatment with galantamine has a long-term positive effect on brain perfusion and rCMRglc and stabilizes cognition."}
{"id": "21149866", "title": "Positron emission tomography imaging and clinical progression in relation to molecular pathology in the first Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography patient with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography imaging and clinical progression in relation to molecular pathology in the first Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography patient with Alzheimer's disease. The accumulation of \u03b2-amyloid in the brain is an early event in Alzheimer's disease. This study presents the first patient with Alzheimer's disease who underwent positron emission tomography imaging with the amyloid tracer, Pittsburgh Compound B to visualize fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid in the brain. Here we relate the clinical progression, amyloid and functional brain positron emission tomography imaging with molecular neuropathological alterations at autopsy to gain new insight into the relationship between \u03b2-amyloid accumulation, inflammatory processes and the cholinergic neurotransmitter system in Alzheimer's disease brain. The patient underwent positron emission tomography studies with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose three times (at ages 53, 56 and 58 years) and twice with Pittsburgh Compound B (at ages 56 and 58 years), prior to death at 61 years of age. The patient showed a pronounced decline in cerebral glucose metabolism and cognition during disease progression, while Pittsburgh Compound B retention remained high and stable at follow-up. Neuropathological examination of the brain at autopsy confirmed the clinical diagnosis of pure Alzheimer's disease. A comprehensive neuropathological investigation was performed in nine brain regions to measure the regional distribution of \u03b2-amyloid, neurofibrillary tangles and the levels of binding of (3)H-nicotine and (125)I-\u03b1-bungarotoxin to neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes, (3)H-L-deprenyl to activated astrocytes and (3)H-PK11195 to microglia, as well as butyrylcholinesterase activity. Regional in vivo (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B-positron emission tomography retention positively correlated with (3)H-Pittsburgh Compound B binding, total insoluble \u03b2-amyloid, and \u03b2-amyloid plaque distribution, but not with the number of neurofibrillary tangles measured at autopsy. There was a negative correlation between regional fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid and levels of (3)H-nicotine binding. In addition, a positive correlation was found between regional (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography retention and (3)H-Pittsburgh Compound B binding with the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive cells, but not with (3)H-L-deprenyl and (3)H-PK-11195 binding. In summary, high (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography retention significantly correlates with both fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid and losses of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes at autopsy, suggesting a closer involvement of \u03b2-amyloid pathology with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes than with inflammatory processes."}
{"id": "21149491", "title": "18F-FDG PET reveals frontotemporal dysfunction in children with fever-induced refractory epileptic encephalopathy.", "content": "18F-FDG PET reveals frontotemporal dysfunction in children with fever-induced refractory epileptic encephalopathy. Fever-induced refractory epileptic encephalopathy in school-age children (FIRES) is a recently described epileptic entity whose etiology remains unknown. Brain abnormalities shown by MRI are usually limited to mesial-temporal structures and do not account for the catastrophic neuropsychologic findings. We conducted FIRES studies in 8 patients, aged 6-13 y, using 18F-FDG PET to disclose eventual neocortical dysfunction. Voxel-based analyses of cerebral glucose metabolism were performed using statistical parametric mapping and an age-matched control group. Group analysis revealed a widespread interictal hypometabolic network including the temporoparietal and orbitofrontal cortices bilaterally. The individual analyses in patients identified hypometabolic areas corresponding to the predominant electroencephalograph foci and neuropsychologic deficits involving language, behavior, and memory. Despite clinical heterogeneity, 18F-FDG PET reveals a common network dysfunction in patients with sequelae due to fever-induced refractory epileptic encephalopathy."}
{"id": "21134418", "title": "Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease: an additional contributing factor of cognitive impairment.", "content": "Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease: an additional contributing factor of cognitive impairment. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate whether chronic cerebral hypoperfusion would affect cognitive status in an Alzheimer mouse model. Behavioral tests and histological evaluations were performed using female Tg2576 mice eight weeks after right common carotid artery occlusion (rCCAO), which is known to induce a type of vascular dementia without neuronal necrosis in nontransgenic mice. Positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) was utilized to evaluate metabolic status in the rCCAO-operated brain of nontransgenic mice. Escape latency from the Morris water maze test was not significantly different between rCCAO- and sham-operated mice. However, the learning curve was impaired in rCCAO-operated transgenic mice while it was preserved in sham-operated transgenic or rCCAO-operated nontransgenic mice. Histological examination revealed no evidence of cell death in the rCCAO-operated brains, and the extent of amyloid deposition was not different in rCCAO- and sham-operated mice. The brain of rCCAO-operated mice showed metabolic deficits in the ipsilateral parietal cortex through FDG-PET. In conclusion, further cognitive decline which is more comparable to typical Alzheimer's disease was induced by chronic cerebral hypoperfusion in an Alzheimer mouse model. This aggravation might be associated with hypometabolism via chronic cerebral hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "21098981", "title": "The reduction of baseline serotonin 2A receptors in mild cognitive impairment is stable at two-year follow-up.", "content": "The reduction of baseline serotonin 2A receptors in mild cognitive impairment is stable at two-year follow-up. We previously demonstrated a 20-30% reduction in cortical 5-HT2A receptor binding in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as compared to healthy subjects. Here we present a two-year follow-up of 14 patients and 12 healthy age-matched subjects. Baseline and follow-up partial volume corrected levels of 5-HT2A in four neocortical lobes and the posterior cingulate gyrus were investigated using [18F]altanserin positron emission tomography with a bolus-infusion approach. In the two-year follow-up period, 8 of 14 patients with MCI had progressed to fulfill diagnostic criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). In both patients and healthy subjects, no significant change in 5-HT2A receptor binding was found as compared to baseline values. In MCI patients, the average BPP in neocortex ranged from 1.49 to 2.45 at baseline and 1.38 to 2.29 at two-year follow-up; and in healthy subjects BPP ranged from 1.85 to 3.10 at baseline and 1.81 to 2.98 at two-year follow-up. The BPP of the patients that converted to AD during the follow-up period did not differ significantly from the patients that had not (yet) converted, neither at baseline, nor at follow-up. We conclude that the reduced levels of 5-HT2A receptor binding in MCI patients decrease only slowly and non-significantly, even in patients who convert to AD. Our finding suggests that profoundly reduced cortical 5-HT2A receptor binding is an early feature in MCI whereas the clinical progression from MCI to AD is less associated with further decrease in binding."}
{"id": "21094210", "title": "Biochemical, neuropathological, and neuroimaging characteristics of early-onset Alzheimer's disease due to a novel PSEN1 mutation.", "content": "Biochemical, neuropathological, and neuroimaging characteristics of early-onset Alzheimer's disease due to a novel PSEN1 mutation. Familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to PSEN1 mutations provides an opportunity to examine AD biomarkers in persons in whom the diagnosis is certain. We describe a 55 year-old woman with clinically probable AD and a novel PSEN1 mutation who underwent genetic, clinical, biochemical and magnetic resonance and nuclear imaging assessments. We also describe neuropathological findings in her similarly affected brother. Neuropsychological testing confirmed deficits in memory, visuospatial and language function. CSF t-tau and p-tau181 were markedly elevated and A\u03b2(42) levels reduced. FDG-PET revealed hypometabolism in the left parietotemporal cortex. FDDNP-PET showed increased binding of tracer in medial temporal and parietal lobes and in the head of the caudate and anterior putamen bilaterally. Neuropathological examination of her brother showed the typical findings of AD and the striatum demonstrated amyloid pathology and marked neurofibrillary pathology beyond that typically seen in late-onset AD. A novel S212Y substitution in PSEN1 was present in the index patient and her affected brother but not in an older unaffected sister. An in vitro assay in which the S212Y mutation was introduced in cell culture confirmed that it was associated with increased production of A\u03b2(42). We describe biochemical, imaging, and neuropathological changes in a pedigree with a novel PSEN1 mutation. This allows us to validate the pathogenicity of this mutation and the indices used to assess AD."}
{"id": "21087362", "title": "Low frequency stimulation of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontini increases cortical metabolism in parkinsonian patients.", "content": "Low frequency stimulation of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontini increases cortical metabolism in parkinsonian patients. To evaluate the effects of 25-Hz deep brain stimulation of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontini (PPTg) on brain metabolic activity. Six patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who had bilateral stereotactic implantation of PPTg at least 12 months prior to evaluation were included in our study. All underwent, in separate sessions, 18-FDG-PET in core assessment programme for intra-cerebral transplantation as well as motor evaluation [Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS)--Section III] and a battery of cognitive testing. PPTg-ON (low bipolar contacts, 25 Hz) promoted a significant increase of glucose utilization in bilateral prefrontal areas including dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC, BA9), orbito-frontal cortex (BA47), anterior cingulate (BA 25-32), superior frontal gyrus (BA 10) and supramarginal gyrus (BA40); a significant increase of uptake and consumption of FDG also occurred in the left ventral striatum, left subgyral (BA 46), right insula (BA 13) and right superior temporal gyrus (BA 22). PPTg-ON was associated with a significant decrease of glucose utilization in the left cerebellar anterior lobe (culmen) and right cerebellar posterior lobe (declive). In the same patients, PPTg-ON improved delayed recall (P < 0.05) and executive functions whilst the UPDRS revealed a modest (-21%) and variable treatment effect. Low frequency stimulation of PPTg, a sub-region of the pedunculopontine nucleus complex, causes a minor motor benefit but a peculiar profile of cognitive improvement associated with a significant increase in FDG consumption in both prefrontal areas and mono-lateral ventral striatum. These data are consistent with multiple limbic and/or associative domains modulated by PPTg stimulation in our patients with PD."}
{"id": "21075154", "title": "Activated MAO-B in the brain of Alzheimer patients, demonstrated by [11C]-L-deprenyl using whole hemisphere autoradiography.", "content": "Activated MAO-B in the brain of Alzheimer patients, demonstrated by [11C]-L-deprenyl using whole hemisphere autoradiography. In the human brain the monoaminooxidase-B enzyme or MAO-B is highly abundant in astrocytes. As astrocyte activity and, consequently, the activity of the MAO-B enzyme, is up-regulated in neuroinflammatory processes, radiolabelled analogues of deprenyl may serve as an imaging biomarker in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's disease. In the present study [(11)C]-L-deprenyl, the PET radioligand version of L-deprenyl or selegiline\u00ae, a selective irreversible MAO-B inhibitor was used in whole hemisphere autoradiographic experiments in human brain sections in order to test the radioligand's binding to the MAO-B enzyme in human brain tissue, with an eye on exploring the radioligand's applicability as a molecular imaging biomarker in human PET studies, with special regard to diagnostic detection of reactive astrogliosis. Whole hemisphere brain sections obtained from Alzheimer patients and from age matched control subjects were examined. In control brains the binding of [(11)C]-L-deprenyl was the highest in the hippocampus, in the basal ganglia, the thalamus, the substantia nigra, the corpus geniculatum laterale, the nucleus accumbens and the periventricular grey matter. In Alzheimer brains significantly higher binding was observed in the temporal lobes and the white matter. Furthermore, in the Alzheimer brains in the hippocampus, temporal lobe and white matter the binding negatively correlated with Braak stages. The highest binding was observed in Braak I-II, whereas it decreased with increasing Braak grades. The increased regional binding in Alzheimer brains coincided with the presence of an increased number of activated astrocytes, as demonstrated by correlative immunohistochemical studies with GFAP in adjacent brain slices. Deprenyl itself as well as the MAO-B antagonist rasagiline did effectively block the binding of the radioligand, whereas the MAO-A antagonist pirlindole did not affect it. Compounds with high affinity for the PBR system did not block the radioligand binding either, providing evidence for the specificity of [(11)C]-L-deprenyl for the MAO-B enzyme. In conclusion, the present observations indicate that [(11)C]-L-deprenyl may be a promising and selective imaging biomarker of increased MAO-B activity in the human brain and can therefore serve as a prospective PET tracer targeting neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "21059987", "title": "Temporoparietal hypometabolism in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and associated imaging diagnostic errors.", "content": "Temporoparietal hypometabolism in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and associated imaging diagnostic errors. To evaluate the cause of diagnostic errors in the visual interpretation of positron emission tomographic scans with fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG-PET) in patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Twelve trained raters unaware of clinical and autopsy information independently reviewed FDG-PET scans and provided their diagnostic impression and confidence of either FTLD or AD. Six of these raters also recorded whether metabolism appeared normal or abnormal in 5 predefined brain regions in each hemisphere-frontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, anterior temporal cortex, temporoparietal cortex, and posterior cingulate cortex. Results were compared with neuropathological diagnoses. Academic medical centers. Forty-five patients with pathologically confirmed FTLD (n=14) or AD (n=31). Raters had a high degree of diagnostic accuracy in the interpretation of FDG-PET scans; however, raters consistently found some scans more difficult to interpret than others. Unanimity of diagnosis among the raters was more frequent in patients with AD (27 of 31 patients [87%]) than in patients with FTLD (7 of 14 patients [50%]) (P=.02). Disagreements in interpretation of scans in patients with FTLD largely occurred when there was temporoparietal hypometabolism, which was present in 7 of the 14 FTLD scans and 6 of the 7 scans lacking unanimity. Hypometabolism of anterior cingulate and anterior temporal regions had higher specificities and positive likelihood ratios for FTLD than temporoparietal hypometabolism had for AD. Temporoparietal hypometabolism in FTLD is common and may cause inaccurate interpretation of FDG-PET scans. An interpretation paradigm that focuses on the absence of hypometabolism in regions typically affected in AD before considering FTLD is likely to misclassify a significant portion of FTLD scans. Anterior cingulate and/or anterior temporal hypometabolism indicates a high likelihood of FTLD, even when temporoparietal hypometabolism is present. Ultimately, the accurate interpretation of FDG-PET scans in patients with dementia cannot rest on the presence or absence of a single region of hypometabolism but rather must take into account the relative hypometabolism of all brain regions."}
{"id": "20959851", "title": "Platelet mitochondrial complex I and I+III activities do not correlate with cerebral mitochondrial oxidative metabolism.", "content": "Platelet mitochondrial complex I and I+III activities do not correlate with cerebral mitochondrial oxidative metabolism. Assays of mitochondrial electron transport system (ETS) activity in circulating blood platelets have been used to investigate the cause of neurodegenerative diseases. However, the correspondence between platelet ETS function and cerebral mitochondrial metabolism is not well characterized. To assess the validity of using platelet ETS activity to infer cerebral mitochondrial metabolism, we measured platelet ETS activity (complex I and complex I+III), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)), and the CMRO(2)/cerebral metabolic rate for glucose ratio in 40 subjects: 7 with never-medicated Parkinson's disease, 13 with genetically proved Huntington's disease, and 20 normal controls. We found no correlation between in vivo measures of cerebral mitochondrial oxidative metabolism and ex vivo assays of platelet complex I and complex I+III activity performed on blood collected immediately before cerebral metabolism studies. We saw no evidence of a threshold effect when comparing platelet complex I and complex I+III activity with cerebral oxidative metabolism across a 4- to 10-fold range of platelet ETS activity. On the basis of these data, we conclude that measures of mitochondrial complex I and I+III activity in platelets within the ranges we have studied do not correlate with oxidative function of cerebral mitochondria."}
{"id": "20946703", "title": "Kana Pick-out Test and brain perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Kana Pick-out Test and brain perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease. The Kana Pick-out Test (KPT), which was developed in Japan, is suitable for evaluating frontal lobe function and screening for mild dementia. However, the neural substrates involved remain to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to identify the regional perfusion patterns in the brain associated with performance scores on the KPT in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), using brain perfusion assessed by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Twenty AD patients with high scores on the KPT and 20 age- and sex-matched AD patients with low scores were selected from 227 consecutive Japanese patients of the Memory Clinic of Okayama University Hospital. All 40 subjects underwent brain SPECT with 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer, and the SPECT images were analyzed by Statistical Parametric Mapping. With the exception of KPT scores, no significant differences were found between high and low scoring groups with respect to Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination scores, Mini-mental State Examination scores, or the depression score of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory subscale. Compared to patients with high scores on the KPT, AD patients with low scores on the KPT showed significant hypoperfusion in the left subgenual cingulate gyrus (SGC) extending to the right SGC. Our results suggest that functional activity of the SGC is closely related to scores on the KPT. KPT might be a promising strategy to use in detecting early stages of AD with low SGC function."}
{"id": "20945377", "title": "PET translates neurophysiology into images: A review to stimulate a network between neuroimaging and basic research.", "content": "PET translates neurophysiology into images: A review to stimulate a network between neuroimaging and basic research. In the last decades there has been a progressive advance in the development of techniques able to explore in humans neurophysiologic and neurochemical processes. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a very powerful technique allowing to study a quite variable range of physiological and biochemical processes in the healthy subjects and in diseases. Apart from its capacity to provide pathophysiological information, PET is also important for the objective assessment of therapeutic efficacy. Initial studies were performed measuring cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) and cerebral blood flow (CBF), representing an indirect index of synaptic activity. The advent of receptor tracers allowed measuring other important physiological parameters, such as receptor occupancy, and endogenous release. In neuropsychiatric disorders, as Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, epilepsy and Huntington disease, PET has been useful to elaborate hypothesis of the pathogenesis, to relate symptoms to biological variables and to study individuals at increased risk. The new concepts of neurovascular unit and default network, preferentially active at rest, can significantly change the approach of PET, with images reflecting a complex scenario, not merely limited to neural activity, but involving the activity of the entire neurovascular unit and the multifunctional role of astrocytes. To detect dysfunction of the dialog between glutamatergic neurons and astrocytes could lead to a better understanding of altered functional brain images. In this direction a professional network between PET researchers and basic scientists, could give a determinant improvement in the capability to understand the complex physiological and pathophysiological cerebral world."}
{"id": "20888920", "title": "Association between GAB2 haplotype and higher glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease-affected brain regions in cognitively normal APOE\u03b54 carriers.", "content": "Association between GAB2 haplotype and higher glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease-affected brain regions in cognitively normal APOE\u03b54 carriers. In a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD), we found an association between common haplotypes of the GAB2 gene and AD risk in carriers of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 allele, the major late-onset AD susceptibility gene. We previously proposed the use of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) measurements as a quantitative pre-symptomatic endophenotype, more closely related to disease risk than the clinical syndrome itself, to help evaluate putative genetic and non-genetic modifiers of AD risk. In this study, we examined the relationship between the presence or absence of the relatively protective GAB2 haplotype and PET measurements of regional-to-whole brain FDG uptake in several AD-affected brain regions in 158 cognitively normal late-middle-aged APOE\u03b54 homozygotes, heterozygotes, and non-carriers. GAB2 haplotypes were characterized using Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human SNP 6.0 Array data from each of these subjects. As predicted, the possibly protective GAB2 haplotype was associated with higher regional-to-whole brain FDG uptake in AD-affected brain regions in APOE\u03b54 carriers. While additional studies are needed, this study supports the association between the possibly protective GAB2 haplotype and the risk of late-onset AD in APOE\u03b54 carriers. It also supports the use of brain-imaging endophenotypes to help assess possible modifiers of AD risk."}
{"id": "20886575", "title": "Distinct functional networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression.", "content": "Distinct functional networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression. Variability in the affective and cognitive symptom response to antidepressant treatment has been observed in geriatric depression. The underlying neural circuitry is poorly understood. This study evaluated the cerebral glucose metabolic effects of citalopram treatment and applied multivariate, functional connectivity analyses to identify brain networks associated with improvements in affective symptoms and cognitive function. Sixteen geriatric depressed patients underwent resting positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism and assessment of affective symptoms and cognitive function before and after 8 weeks of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment (citalopram). Voxel-wise analyses of the normalized glucose metabolic data showed decreased cerebral metabolism during citalopram treatment in the anterior cingulate gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, precuneus, amygdala, and parahippocampal gyrus. Increased metabolism was observed in the putamen, occipital cortex, and cerebellum. Functional connectivity analyses revealed two networks which were uniquely associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during treatment. A subcortical-limbic-frontal network was associated with improvement in affect (depression and anxiety), while a medial temporal-parietal-frontal network was associated with improvement in cognition (immediate verbal learning/memory and verbal fluency). The regions that comprise the cognitive network overlap with the regions that are affected in Alzheimer's dementia. Thus, alterations in specific brain networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function are observed during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression."}
{"id": "20880270", "title": "The effect of age on motor deficits and cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The effect of age on motor deficits and cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease. No systematic study has been made to separate age-related clinical deterioration and dysfunctional brain areas from those associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). This study included 73 de novo patients with PD and 43 age-matched controls. All subjects underwent [(18)F]-fluorodeoxy glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography studies. The severity of parkinsonian motor deficit was measured using unified PD rating scale (UPDRS) motor scores. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to identify those parkinsonian motor deficits for which severity was correlated with the age of the patients and to locate brain areas in which normalized FDG uptake values were inversely correlated with the age of the subjects. Patient age was positively correlated with total UPDRS motor scores and with subscores for bradykinesia and axial motor deficits, but not with subscores for tremor and rigidity. In the control group, an age-related decline in glucose uptake was found only in the cingulate cortex. However, in the patient group, an inverse correlation between age and glucose uptake was observed in the prefrontal, cingulate, orbitofrontal, perisylvian areas, caudate, and thalamus. In PD, widespread age-related decline in cerebral function may exaggerate the deterioration associated with bradykinesia and the axial motor deficits associated with nigral neuronal loss."}
{"id": "20847637", "title": "Derivation of a new ADAS-cog composite using tree-based multivariate analysis: prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Derivation of a new ADAS-cog composite using tree-based multivariate analysis: prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer disease. Model-based statistical approaches were used to compare the ability of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) markers to predict 12-month progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer disease (AD). Using the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) data set, properties of the 11-item ADAS-cog (ADAS.11), the 13-item ADAS-cog (ADAS.All) and novel composite scores were compared, using weighting schemes derived from the Random Forests (RF) tree-based multivariate model. Weighting subscores using the RF model of ADAS.All enhanced discrimination between elderly controls, MCI and AD patients. The ability of the RF-weighted ADAS-cog composite and individual scores, along with neuroimaging or biochemical biomarkers to predict MCI to AD conversion over 12 months was also assessed. Although originally optimized to discriminate across diagnostic categories, the ADAS. All, weighted according to the RF model, did nearly as well or better than individual or composite baseline neuroimaging or CSF biomarkers in prediction of 12-month conversion from MCI to AD. These suggest that a modified subscore weighting scheme applied to the 13-item ADAS-cog is comparable to imaging or CSF markers in prediction of conversion from MCI to AD at 12 months."}
{"id": "20844871", "title": "In vivo changes in microglial activation and amyloid deposits in brain regions with hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "In vivo changes in microglial activation and amyloid deposits in brain regions with hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid \u03b2 protein (A\u03b2) is known as a pathological substance in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is assumed to coexist with a degree of activated microglia in the brain. However, it remains unclear whether these two events occur in parallel with characteristic hypometabolism in AD in vivo. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the in vivo relationship between A\u03b2 accumulation and neuroinflammation in those specific brain regions in early AD. Eleven nootropic drug-na\u00efve AD patients underwent a series of positron emission tomography (PET) measurements with [(11)C](R)PK11195, [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDG and a battery of cognitive tests within the same day. The binding potentials (BPs) of [(11)C](R)PK11195 were directly compared with those of [(11)C]PIB in the brain regions with reduced glucose metabolism. BPs of [(11)C](R)PK11195 and [(11)C]PIB were significantly higher in the parietotemporal regions of AD patients than in ten healthy controls. In AD patients, there was a negative correlation between dementia score and [(11)C](R)PK11195 BPs, but not [(11)C]PIB, in the limbic, precuneus and prefrontal regions. Direct comparisons showed a significant negative correlation between [(11)C](R)PK11195 and [(11)C]PIB BPs in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) (p\u2009<\u20090.05, corrected) that manifested the most severe reduction in [(18)F]FDG uptake. A lack of coupling between microglial activation and amyloid deposits may indicate that A\u03b2 accumulation shown by [(11)C]PIB is not always the primary cause of microglial activation, but rather the negative correlation present in the PCC suggests that microglia can show higher activation during the production of A\u03b2 in early AD."}
{"id": "20837822", "title": "Insulin resistance and Alzheimer-like reductions in regional cerebral glucose metabolism for cognitively normal adults with prediabetes or early type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Insulin resistance and Alzheimer-like reductions in regional cerebral glucose metabolism for cognitively normal adults with prediabetes or early type 2 diabetes. Insulin resistance is a causal factor in prediabetes (PD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) and increases the risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD). Reductions in cerebral glucose metabolic rate (CMRglu) as measured by fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in parietotemporal, frontal, and cingulate cortices are associated with increased AD risk and can be observed years before dementia onset. To examine whether greater homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) is associated with reduced resting CMRglu in areas vulnerable in AD in cognitively normal adults with newly diagnosed PD or T2D (PD/T2D), and to determine whether adults with PD/T2D have abnormal patterns of CMRglu during a memory encoding task. Randomized crossover design of resting and activation FDG-PET. University imaging center and Veterans Affairs clinical research unit. Twenty-three older adults (mean [SEM] age, 74.4 [1.4] years) with no prior diagnosis of diabetes but who met American Diabetes Association glycemic criteria for PD (n = 11) or diabetes (n = 12) based on fasting or 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) glucose values and 6 adults (mean [SEM] age, 74.3 [2.8] years) with normal fasting glucose values and glucose tolerance. No participant met Petersen criteria for mild cognitive impairment. Fasting participants underwent resting and cognitive activation FDG-PET imaging on separate days. Following a 30-minute transmission scan, subjects received an intravenous injection of 5 mCi of FDG, and the emission scan commenced 40 minutes after injection. In the activation condition, a 35-minute memory encoding task was initiated at the time of tracer injection. Subjects were instructed to remember a repeating list of 20 words randomly presented in series through earphones. Delayed free recall was assessed once the emission scan was complete. The HOMA-IR value was calculated using fasting glucose and insulin values obtained during OGTT screening and then correlated with CMRglu values obtained during the resting scan. Resting CMRglu values were also subtracted from CMRglu values obtained during the memory encoding activation scan to examine task-related patterns of CMRglu. Greater insulin resistance was associated with an AD-like pattern of reduced CMRglu in frontal, parietotemporal, and cingulate regions in adults with PD/T2D. The relationship between CMRglu and HOMA-IR was independent of age, 2-hour OGTT glucose concentration, or apolipoprotein E \u03b54 allele carriage. During the memory encoding task, healthy adults showed activation in right anterior and inferior prefrontal cortices, right inferior temporal cortex, and medial and posterior cingulate regions. Adults with PD/T2D showed a qualitatively different pattern during the memory encoding task, characterized by more diffuse and extensive activation, and recalled fewer items on the delayed memory test. Insulin resistance may be a marker of AD risk that is associated with reduced CMRglu and subtle cognitive impairments at the earliest stage of disease, even before the onset of mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "20571819", "title": "Four-repeat tauopathy clinically presenting as posterior cortical atrophy: atypical corticobasal degeneration?", "content": "Four-repeat tauopathy clinically presenting as posterior cortical atrophy: atypical corticobasal degeneration? A man aged 55 with negative family history presented with progressive decline in spatial orientation and visual functions for 2 years. He showed impaired optic fixation, optic ataxia, agraphia, acalculia, ideomotor apraxia, disturbed right-left differentiation but preserved color matching, memory and motor perception, gradually progressing to dementia, without extrapyramidal signs. Brain MRI and PET showed severe bilateral atrophy and hypometabolism in parieto-occipital areas with sparing of visual perception area and frontal lobes. Treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors had no effect. Death occurred 6\u00bd years after onset of symptoms from bronchopneumonia. Clinical diagnosis was posterior cortical atrophy (Benson's syndrome). Autopsy showed severe bilateral parietal cortical atrophy, less severe in other brain regions without subcortical lesions. Histology revealed severe diffuse tauopathy with neuronal loss, neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, and tau deposits in astroglia and oligodendroglia in parietal, temporal, occipital cortex, less in frontal cortex and hippocampus, putamen, claustrum, thalamus and subthalamus. Severely involved white matter showed many tau-positive threads, comma-like inclusions in oligodendroglia (coiled bodies) and in astroglia. Mild neuronal loss in substantia nigra was associated with massive tau pathology, also involving several brainstem nuclei, cerebellum being preserved. There were neither astrocytic plaques nor any amyloid pathology. Neuronal and glial inclusions were generally 4R-tau-positive and 3R-tau-negative. No TDP-43 and \u03b1-synuclein inclusions were detected. Spinal cord was not available. No mutations were found in the MAPT gene. This is the first published case with the fully developed clinical and neuroimaging picture of posterior cortical atrophy, morphologically presenting as a distinct phenotype of 4R-tauopathy that closely resembles (atypical) CBD."}
{"id": "20571524", "title": "Intact memory in TGF-\u03b21 transgenic mice featuring chronic cerebrovascular deficit: recovery with pioglitazone.", "content": "Intact memory in TGF-\u03b21 transgenic mice featuring chronic cerebrovascular deficit: recovery with pioglitazone. The roles of chronic brain hypoperfusion and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-\u03b21) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are unresolved. We investigated the interplay between TGF-\u03b21, cerebrovascular function, and cognition using transgenic TGF mice featuring astrocytic TGF-\u03b21 overexpression. We further assessed the impact of short, late therapy in elderly animals with the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) or the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-\u03b3 agonist pioglitazone. The latter was also administered to pups as a prophylactic 1-year treatment. Elderly TGF mice featured cerebrovascular dysfunction that was not remedied with NAC. In contrast, pioglitazone prevented or reversed this deficit, and rescued the impaired neurovascular coupling response to whisker stimulation, although it failed to normalize the vascular structure. In aged TGF mice, neuronal and cognitive indices--the stimulus-evoked neurometabolic response, cortical cholinergic innervation, and spatial memory in the Morris water maze--were intact. Our findings show that impaired brain hemodynamics and cerebrovascular function are not accompanied by memory impairment in this model. Conceivably in AD, they constitute aggravating factors against a background of aging and underlying pathology. Our data further highlight the ability of pioglitazone to protect the cerebrovasculature marked by TGF-\u03b21 increase, aging, fibrosis, and antioxidant resistance, thus of high relevance for AD patients."}
{"id": "20538374", "title": "Differential levels of apolipoprotein E and butyrylcholinesterase show strong association with pathological signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain in vivo.", "content": "Differential levels of apolipoprotein E and butyrylcholinesterase show strong association with pathological signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain in vivo. Recently, we reported that 3 of the known risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD), i.e., advanced age, apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54, and female gender, are associated with differential levels of ApoE proteins and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AD patients. The ApoE \u03b54 allele and certain BuChE polymorphisms synergistically affect the conversion rate of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD. Here, we investigated interrelationships between ApoE and BuChE levels, and pathological markers of AD in vivo. CSF from patients with probable AD, assessed for cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc; n = 50) and Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) retention (\u03b2-amyloid [A\u03b2] load, n = 29) by positron emission tomography (PET), was used for measurement of BuChE, ApoE, A\u03b2, tau, phosphorylated tau (P-tau) and interleukin-1\u03b2 (IL-1\u03b2) levels. Levels of ApoE and BuChE strongly correlated with CMRglc (fluorodeoxyglucose [FDG]-PET, r = 0.54, p < 0.0001, n = 50), cerebral A\u03b2 load (PIB retention, r = 0.73, p < 0.0001, n = 29), and CSF P-tau (r = 0.73, p < 0.0001, n = 33). High ApoE protein was tied to low CMRglc and high PIB retention and P-tau. BuChE levels had opposite relationships. Other CSF covariates were levels of interleukin-1\u03b2 and A\u03b2(42) peptide. The pattern of the patients' cognitive Z-scores strongly supported these observations. High ApoE protein was also linked to changes in 3 of the biodynamic properties of BuChE. In vitro analysis indicated that high ApoE protein levels were related to an increased pool of dormant BuChE molecules with an abnormally high intrinsic catalytic rate in CSF, which was \"turned on\" by excess A\u03b2 peptides. The findings suggest that abnormally high levels of ApoE may play a causative role in the pathological events of AD, particularly those involving the early cholinergic deficit in the AD brain, through modulation of cholinesterases activities, hence disturbing the acetylcholine-dependent activity of neurons and nonexcitable cells such as glial cells."}
{"id": "19796846", "title": "Glucose metabolism and PIB binding in carriers of a His163Tyr presenilin 1 mutation.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and PIB binding in carriers of a His163Tyr presenilin 1 mutation. Six young related pre-symptomatic carriers of a His163Tyr mutation in the presenilin 1 gene who will develop early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (eoFAD), and a control group of 23 non-carriers underwent (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET). The mutation carriers were followed-up after 2 years. Multivariate analysis showed clear separation of carriers from non-carriers on both occasions, with the right thalamus being the region contributing most to group differentiation. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) revealed in the carriers non-significantly lower thalamic cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) at baseline and significantly decreased CMRglc in the right thalamus at follow-up. One mutation carrier was followed-up with FDG PET 10 years after baseline and showed reductions in cognition and CMRglc in the posterior cingulate and the frontal cortex. This subject was diagnosed with AD 1 year later and assessed with an additional FDG as well as an (11)C-PIB PET scan 12 years after baseline. Global cortical CMRglc and cognition were distinctly decreased. PIB binding was comparable with sporadic AD patterns but showing slightly higher striatal levels."}
{"id": "19660834", "title": "Associations between cognitive, functional, and FDG-PET measures of decline in AD and MCI.", "content": "Associations between cognitive, functional, and FDG-PET measures of decline in AD and MCI. The Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) are frequently used indices of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal of this study was to compare FDG-PET and clinical measurements in a large sample of elderly subjects with memory disturbance. We examined relationships between glucose metabolism in FDG-PET regions of interest (FDG-ROIs), and ADAS-cog and FAQ scores in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Low glucose metabolism at baseline predicted subsequent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. In addition, longitudinal glucose metabolism decline was associated with concurrent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. Finally, a power analysis revealed that FDG-ROI values have greater statistical power than ADAS-cog to detect attenuation of cognitive decline in AD and MCI patients. Glucose metabolism is a sensitive measure of change in cognition and functional ability in AD and MCI, and has value in predicting future cognitive decline."}
{"id": "21176034", "title": "Prefrontal and paralimbic metabolic dysregulation related to sustained attention in euthymic older adults with bipolar disorder.", "content": "Prefrontal and paralimbic metabolic dysregulation related to sustained attention in euthymic older adults with bipolar disorder. \u2002 Reports of sustained attention deficits in the euthymic phase of bipolar disorder have been variable, and have yet to be related to cerebral metabolism. In the present study, we evaluated relationships between cognitive performance deficits and resting cerebral metabolism in euthymic older adults with bipolar disorder. \u2002 Sixteen older (mean age 58.7 years) euthymic outpatients with bipolar disorder (10 type I, 6 type II; 44% female) and 11 age-matched healthy controls received resting positron emission tomography with (18) fluorodeoxyglucose and, within 10 days, the Conners' Continuous Performance Test-II, a commonly used measure of sustained attention and inhibitory control. \u2002 Bipolar disorder patients had significantly more omission errors (z = 2.53, p = 0.01) and a trend toward more commission errors (z = 1.83, p < 0.07) than healthy controls. Relative to healthy controls, among bipolar disorder subjects commission errors were more strongly related to inferior frontal gyrus [Brodmann area (BA) 45/47] hypometabolism and paralimbic hypermetabolism. In bipolar disorder subjects, relative to controls, omission errors were more strongly related to dorsolateral prefrontal (BA 9/10) hypometabolism and greater paralimbic, insula, and cingulate hypermetabolism. \u2002 In older adults with bipolar disorder, even during euthymia, resting-state corticolimbic dysregulation was related to sustained attention deficits and inhibitory control, which could reflect the cumulative impact of repeated affective episodes upon cerebral metabolism and neurocognitive performance. The relative contributions of aging and recurrent affective episodes to these differences in bipolar disorder patients remain to be established."}
{"id": "21097123", "title": "Multimodal EEG, MRI and PET data fusion for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.", "content": "Multimodal EEG, MRI and PET data fusion for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. Alarmingly increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to the aging population in developing countries, combined with lack of standardized and conclusive diagnostic procedures, make early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease a major public health concern. While no current medical treatment exists to stop or reverse this disease, recent dementia specific pharmacological advances can slow its progression, making early diagnosis all the more important. Several noninvasive biomarkers have been proposed, including P300 based EEG analysis, MRI volumetric analysis, PET based metabolic activity analysis, as alternatives to neuropsychological evaluation, the current gold standard of diagnosis. Each of these approaches, have shown some promising outcomes, however, a comprehensive data fusion analysis has not yet been conducted to investigate whether these different modalities carry complementary information, and if so, whether they can be combined to provide a more accurate analysis. In this effort, we provide a first look at such an analysis in combining EEG, MRI and PET data using an ensemble of classifiers based decision fusion approach, to determine whether a strategic combination of these different modalities can improve the diagnostic accuracy over any of the individual data sources when used with an automated classifier. Results show an improvement of up to 10%-20% using this approach compared to the classification performance obtained when using each individual data source."}
{"id": "21091314", "title": "Imaging cognitive and behavioral symptoms in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Imaging cognitive and behavioral symptoms in Parkinson's disease. Non-motor symptoms are a major and often unrecognized cause of morbidity of Parkinson's disease. In the past few years, imaging technology, such as functional MRI and PET, have provided a large bulk of information about the phenomena. Here, we provide an overview of those imaging studies that may help us understand the neuronal correlates associated with non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease, with a particular focus on cognitive and neuropsychiatric deficits."}
{"id": "21071950", "title": "Improved visual hallucination by donepezil and occipital glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies: the Osaki-Tajiri project.", "content": "Improved visual hallucination by donepezil and occipital glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies: the Osaki-Tajiri project. Deficits in the cholinergic system are pronounced in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and are more severe in patients with visual hallucinations (VHs). The aim is to identify the occipital glucose metabolism patterns by positron emission tomography (PET) and the changes following donepezil treatment. 13 DLB patients with VHs were enrolled in the study. After the first FDG-PET study, 5 mg/day donepezil was administered orally, and a second PET study was performed 3 months later. After donepezil administration, VHs disappeared completely in 6 patients, and the PET studies revealed significantly decreased glucose metabolism in the medial occipital cortex. These results suggest that VHs in DLB were associated with impaired glucose metabolism in the medial occipital cortex. Donepezil treatment may modify regional glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "21051671", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in vascular white matter disease with dementia: differentiation from Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in vascular white matter disease with dementia: differentiation from Alzheimer disease. The boundary between vascular dementia and Alzheimer disease (AD) continues to be unclear. Some posit that gradually progressive vascular dementia, as with small vessel disease, is simply vascular disease plus AD. Because AD presents a characteristic pattern on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, we sought to determine whether the fluorodeoxyglucose pattern of vascular dementia resembled more AD or the pattern in nondemented patients with severe microvascular brain disease. Vascular disease patients were selected on the basis of confluent white matter lesions on both hemispheres. Among them, with a similar degree of vascular disease on MRI, neuropsychological testing separated groups with dementia and without dementia. Patients with AD and healthy controls were also studied. The 4 groups, with 12 subjects each, were matched by age, gender, and educational level. Fluorodeoxyglucose distribution was analyzed using both voxel-based and volume of interest methods. The AD group had the characteristic pattern of bilaterally decreased metabolism in parieto-temporal association cortex and precuneus. By contrast, patients with vascular disease and dementia had a similar anatomic pattern to that of the vascular patients without dementia, but with greater metabolic abnormalities, particularly in the frontal lobes and deep nuclei. The anatomy of metabolic abnormalities in vascular disease with dementia suggests that, at least in some cases, dementia with vascular disease may be independent of AD. The metabolic abnormality involves the thalamus, caudate, and frontal lobe, a pattern concordant with the neuropsychological findings of impaired executive function characteristic of vascular dementia."}
{"id": "20977325", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in preclinical and prodromal Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in preclinical and prodromal Alzheimer's disease. Assessment of regional cerebral glucose metabolism by (18)F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-PET at resting state is a standard functional technique to assess cerebral function. Group studies identified significant regional metabolic impairment in asymptomatic individuals at increased risk for dementia. Substantial impairment of FDG uptake in temporoparietal association cortices emerges as a reliable predictor of rapid progression to dementia in mild cognitive impairment patients and could, therefore, serve as a biomarker for the diagnosis of prodromal Alzheimer's disease. Frontal and temporoparietal metabolic impairment is closely related to progression of disease in longitudinal studies, and multicenter studies suggest its utility as an outcome parameter to increase the efficiency of therapeutic trials."}
{"id": "20962637", "title": "Nonprogressive behavioural frontotemporal dementia: recent developments and clinical implications of the 'bvFTD phenocopy syndrome'.", "content": "Nonprogressive behavioural frontotemporal dementia: recent developments and clinical implications of the 'bvFTD phenocopy syndrome'. The clinical features of behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) are well established; however, recent work has identified patients fulfilling diagnostic criteria for the disease who do not appear to progress clinically. This review describes means of distinguishing this group at an early stage from patients who are likely to deteriorate. Despite indistinguishable clinical profiles, studies in a cohort of bvFTD patients showed a particularly good prognosis in a subgroup of predominantly male patients in whom initial structural imaging was normal. This could not be explained by differences in disease duration, and was confirmed by subsequent PET studies. Retrospective review of clinical data in these groups verified that the current clinical diagnostic criteria are both insensitive to true progressive bvFTD, particularly in the early stages, and also poorly specific. In contrast, measures of activity of daily living performance, executive function and tests of social cognition appear to have better discriminatory value for patients who show clear clinical progression, with many individual diagnoses verified by post mortem examination in this group. It remains doubtful that the nonprogressive group have a neurodegenerative disease. The implication for the current clinical diagnostic criteria and their proposed revision is discussed."}
{"id": "20952104", "title": "[Alzheimer's and related diseases: toward earlier and more accurate diagnosis].", "content": "[Alzheimer's and related diseases: toward earlier and more accurate diagnosis]. Because of population ageing, the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia, increases progressively. This condition is now considered as a public health priority. New disease modifying therapeutic strategies could be available in the next few years that would necessitate an accurate and early diagnosis of the disease. Recently developed diagnostic tools are being assessed. Development of structural brain imaging allows to measure the hippocampus volume. Metabolic imaging can assess a broad range of functional parameters such as cerebral blood flow and dopaminergic activity with single photon emission computed tomography, cerebral glucose metabolism and cerebral amyloid burden with positron emission tomography. Those imaging methods are under evaluation to appreciate cerebral abnormalities that may occur earlier than structural ones. Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, in particular amyloid and tau peptides, allow us to look at in vivo biochemical cerebral changes related to AD, before possible serum biomarkers. Studies are under way to confirm the relevance of these new diagnostic tools. It will help us to improve evaluation of patients with AD or related diseases."}
{"id": "20935035", "title": "Brain beta-amyloid measures and magnetic resonance imaging atrophy both predict time-to-progression from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain beta-amyloid measures and magnetic resonance imaging atrophy both predict time-to-progression from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease. Biomarkers of brain A\u03b2 amyloid deposition can be measured either by cerebrospinal fluid A\u03b242 or Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography imaging. Our objective was to evaluate the ability of A\u03b2 load and neurodegenerative atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging to predict shorter time-to-progression from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's dementia and to characterize the effect of these biomarkers on the risk of progression as they become increasingly abnormal. A total of 218 subjects with mild cognitive impairment were identified from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. The primary outcome was time-to-progression to Alzheimer's dementia. Hippocampal volumes were measured and adjusted for intracranial volume. We used a new method of pooling cerebrospinal fluid A\u03b242 and Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography measures to produce equivalent measures of brain A\u03b2 load from either source and analysed the results using multiple imputation methods. We performed our analyses in two phases. First, we grouped our subjects into those who were 'amyloid positive' (n\u2009=\u2009165, with the assumption that Alzheimer's pathology is dominant in this group) and those who were 'amyloid negative' (n\u2009=\u200953). In the second phase, we included all 218 subjects with mild cognitive impairment to evaluate the biomarkers in a sample that we assumed to contain a full spectrum of expected pathologies. In a Kaplan-Meier analysis, amyloid positive subjects with mild cognitive impairment were much more likely to progress to dementia within 2 years than amyloid negative subjects with mild cognitive impairment (50 versus 19%). Among amyloid positive subjects with mild cognitive impairment only, hippocampal atrophy predicted shorter time-to-progression (P\u2009<\u20090.001) while A\u03b2 load did not (P\u2009=\u20090.44). In contrast, when all 218 subjects with mild cognitive impairment were combined (amyloid positive and negative), hippocampal atrophy and A\u03b2 load predicted shorter time-to-progression with comparable power (hazard ratio for an inter-quartile difference of 2.6 for both); however, the risk profile was linear throughout the range of hippocampal atrophy values but reached a ceiling at higher values of brain A\u03b2 load. Our results are consistent with a model of Alzheimer's disease in which A\u03b2 deposition initiates the pathological cascade but is not the direct cause of cognitive impairment as evidenced by the fact that A\u03b2 load severity is decoupled from risk of progression at high levels. In contrast, hippocampal atrophy indicates how far along the neurodegenerative path one is, and hence how close to progressing to dementia. Possible explanations for our finding that many subjects with mild cognitive impairment have intermediate levels of A\u03b2 load include: (i) individual subjects may reach an A\u03b2 load plateau at varying absolute levels; (ii) some subjects may be more biologically susceptible to A\u03b2 than others; and (iii) subjects with mild cognitive impairment with intermediate levels of A\u03b2 may represent individuals with Alzheimer's disease co-existent with other pathologies."}
{"id": "20930300", "title": "A multi-center randomized proof-of-concept clinical trial applying [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for evaluation of metabolic therapy with rosiglitazone XR in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A multi-center randomized proof-of-concept clinical trial applying [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for evaluation of metabolic therapy with rosiglitazone XR in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Here we report the first multi-center clinical trial in Alzheimer's disease (AD) using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ([18F]FDG-PET) measures of brain glucose metabolism as the primary outcome. We contrasted effects of 12 months treatment with the PPAR\u03b3 agonist Rosiglitazone XR versus placebo in 80 mild to moderate AD patients. Secondary objectives included testing for reduction in the progression of brain atrophy and improvement in cognition. Active treatment was associated with a sustained but not statistically significant trend from the first month for higher mean values in Kiindex and CMRgluindex, novel quantitative indices related to the combined forward rate constant for [18F]FDG uptake and to the rate of cerebral glucose utilization, respectively. However, neither these nor another analytical approach recently validated using data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative indicated that active treatment decreased the progression of decline in brain glucose metabolism. Rates of brain atrophy were similar between active and placebo groups and measures of cognition also did not suggest clear group differences. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of using [18F]FDG-PET as part of a multi-center therapeutics trial. It suggests that Rosiglitazone is associated with an early increase in whole brain glucose metabolism, but not with any biological or clinical evidence for slowing progression over a 1 year follow up in the symptomatic stages of AD."}
{"id": "20870446", "title": "[(11)C]PIB-, [(18)F]FDG-PET and MRI imaging in patients with Parkinson's disease with and without dementia.", "content": "[(11)C]PIB-, [(18)F]FDG-PET and MRI imaging in patients with Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. The objective of this study was to identify possible group differences between PD patients with dementia and without dementia by combining different functional and structural imaging methods in vivo, which might provide an opportunity to disentangle the pathophysiological correlates of cognitive impairment and dementia in PD. We performed a neuropsychological evaluation, structural brain MRI, [(18)F]FDG PET and [(11)C]PIB PET in 19 PD patients [eight non-demented (PD), eleven demented (PDD)] and 24 healthy elderly volunteers. [(11)C]PIB region-to-cerebellum ratios did not differ significantly between the groups in any brain region (p > 0.05). PDD patients showed impaired glucose metabolism in cortical brain regions and this reduction was associated with the degree of cognitive impairment. PDD patients had more atrophy both in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex compared with PD patients and controls, and hippocampal atrophy was associated with impaired memory. This cross-sectional data suggests that development of dementia in PD is associated with extensive spread of hypometabolism beyond the occipital cortex, and with hippocampal and frontal atrophy but not beta-amyloid deposition consistent with a unique biological process related to PD rather than co-incidental development of AD in persons with PD."}
{"id": "20861634", "title": "A comparison of the diagnostic sensitivity of MRI, CBF-SPECT, FDG-PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for detecting Alzheimer's disease in a memory clinic.", "content": "A comparison of the diagnostic sensitivity of MRI, CBF-SPECT, FDG-PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for detecting Alzheimer's disease in a memory clinic. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral blood flow single photon emission computed tomography (CBF-SPECT), fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are used for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We aimed to reveal the relative sensitivity of these tools in a memory clinic setting. In 207 patients with probable AD in our memory clinic, medial temporal lobe atrophy on MRI, hypoperfusion/hypometabolism of the parietotemporal lobe and posterior cingulate gyrus in ethylcysteinate dimer-CBF-SPECT/FDG-PET, and abnormalities of CSF amyloid \u03b2-protein 1-42, total tau and phosphorylated tau were evaluated as findings characteristic of AD. The AD findings were observed in 77.4% of all AD patients with MRI, 81.6% with CBF-SPECT, 93.1% with FDG-PET and 94.0% with CSF biomarkers. At the stage of Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 0.5, CSF biomarkers were the most sensitive (90.0%); at the stage of CDR 1, FDG-PET (96.7%) and CSF biomarkers (95.5%) were highly sensitive. At the stage of CDR 2, all tools showed high positive percentages. The diagnosis of AD was most often supported by CSF biomarkers and FDG-PET at the early stage of dementia (CDR 1) and by CSF biomarkers at the earlier stage (CDR 0.5)."}
{"id": "20860570", "title": "Diffuse occipital hypometabolism on [18 F]-FDG PET scans in patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder: prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies?", "content": "Diffuse occipital hypometabolism on [18 F]-FDG PET scans in patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder: prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies? Previous longitudinal studies have revealed that specific patterns on [(18) F]-fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scans in patients with amnesic mild cognitive impairment can predict Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the significance of particular patterns on [(18) F]-FDG PET scans in prodromal patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) remains unclear. Based on the prevailing evidence that rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) often precedes the onset of DLB, [(18) F]-FDG PET scans of nine non-demented patients reporting recurrent nocturnal dream-enactment behavior in our memory clinic were compared with the normative database using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) images. All patients underwent clinical and neuropsychological examinations as well as cardiac [(123) I]-metaiodobenzylguanidine ([(123) I]-MIBG) scintigraphy. Four patients were found to have diffuse areas of reduced cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc), predominantly in the occipital lobe, which is the preferentially affected region in DLB patients. In contrast, five patients showed no such occipital hypometabolism; instead, these five patients showed hypometabolism in the left anterior cingulate gyrus (Broadmann area (BA) 24), right frontal lobe (BA 32) and right anterior temporal lobe (BA 38), which are the preferentially affected regions in Parkinson's disease rather than DLB. The extent of the reduction in CMRglc in the left occipital lobe was correlated with scores on the Bender Gestalt Test, which reflects visuospatial ability, but not with global cognitive measures. All patients showed reduced cardiac [(123) I]-MIBG levels, consistent with underlying Lewy body disease. These variations in [(18) F]-FDG PET scans raise the possibility that the specific pattern of CMRglc reduction may predict developing DLB in patients with idiopathic RBD. Further follow-up studies are needed, particularly on patients with diffuse occipital hypometabolism."}
{"id": "20859325", "title": "Brain activity associated with chronic cancer pain.", "content": "Brain activity associated with chronic cancer pain. The number of neuroimaging studies that examine chronic pain are relatively small, and it is clear that different chronic pain conditions activate diverse regions of the brain. Cancer patients presenting for diagnostic positron emission tomography (PET) imaging were asked to rate their spontaneous baseline pain score. Twenty patients with either no pain (NRS = 0) or with moderate to severe pain (NRS = 4) were invited to participate in this study to determine the difference in brain activity in cancer patients with moderate to severe chronic pain versus no pain. Prospective, non-randomized, observational report. Academic medical center. Patients had a 2-D PET scan with the radionuclide 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) at a dose of approximately 20 mCi. Each individual raw PET scan was coregistered and normalized to standard stereotactic space. Differences in regional glucose metabolism were then statistically compared between patients with moderate-to-severe pain and patients with no pain. The NRS pain score in the patients with moderate to severe pain (n = 11) was 4.5 [4.0-6.0] (median [interquartile range]) versus 0.0 [0.0-0.0] (p < 0.001) in the group with no pain (n = 9). Compared to patients with no pain, patients with moderate to severe pain had increased glucose metabolism bilaterally in the prefrontal cortex, BA 9-11. Unilateral activation was found in the right parietal precuneus cortex, BA 7. There were no areas of the brain in which there was decreased activity due to moderate to severe pain. Our results showing a preferential activation of the prefrontal cortex are consistent with results from studies showing that affective pain perception and negative emotions play an important part in the chronic pain experience. This was not a randomized clinical trial. Patient medication was not controlled."}
{"id": "20858977", "title": "Unawareness of memory deficit in amnestic MCI: FDG-PET findings.", "content": "Unawareness of memory deficit in amnestic MCI: FDG-PET findings. To unveil the brain metabolic correlates of (un)awareness of memory deficit in subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), forty-two outpatients underwent brain 18F-FDG-PET. Awareness of memory deficit was assessed with the Memory Complaint Questionnaire (MAC-Q), identifying two groups: low (MCI/unaware; 17 patients) and good (MCI/aware; 25 patients) aMCI awareness. Twenty-nine age-matched healthy subjects represented the control group. SPM2 was used to assess the correlation between brain metabolism and MAC-Q score, for comparisons between each patient group and controls, and between aMCI/unaware and aMCI/aware groups. The two aMCI groups were comparable in terms of age, gender, education, depression, and neuropsychological tests scores. In the whole 42-patient group, a positive correlation was found between MAC-Q score and metabolism in posterior cingulate cortex in both hemispheres and in inferior parietal lobule, middle cingulate cortex, precuneus and angular gyrus in the left hemisphere. Compared to controls, hypometabolism was found in aMCI/unaware in three large clusters, including precuneus, inferior parietal lobule and superior occipital gyrus, in the left hemisphere, and in inferior parietal lobule, angular gyrus and middle temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere. Smaller clusters of hypometabolism were found in bilateral temporal lobe in aMCI/aware. Hypometabolism in inferior parietal lobule, angular gyrus and superior temporal gyrus in the left hemisphere was highlighted in aMCI/unaware versus aMCI/aware. The significant correlation in all 42 aMCI patients points to posteromedial cortex as a key node of the network being involved in awareness of memory deficit. Patients with low awareness show a more severe hypometabolic pattern, typical of Alzheimer's disease and therefore could be more at risk of developing dementia."}
{"id": "20847408", "title": "Reduced posterior cingulate mitochondrial activity in expired young adult carriers of the APOE \u03b54 allele, the major late-onset Alzheimer's susceptibility gene.", "content": "Reduced posterior cingulate mitochondrial activity in expired young adult carriers of the APOE \u03b54 allele, the major late-onset Alzheimer's susceptibility gene. In vivo PET imaging studies of young-adult carriers of the apolipoprotein E \u03b54 allele (APOE\u03b54), the major Alzheimer's disease (AD) susceptibility gene, have demonstrated declines in glucose metabolism in brain areas later vulnerable to AD, such as posterior cingulate cortex, decades before the possible onset of symptoms. We have previously shown in postmortem studies that such metabolic declines in AD are associated with brain regional mitochondrial dysfunction. To determine whether young adult at-risk individuals demonstrate similar mitochondrial functional decline, we histochemically assessed postmortem tissues from the posterior cingulate cortex of young-adult carriers and noncarriers of APOE\u03b54. At-risk \u03b54 carriers had lower mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase activity than noncarriers in posterior cingulate cortex, particularly within the superficial cortical lamina, a pattern similar to that seen in AD patients. Except for one 34 year-old \u03b54 homozygote, the \u03b54 carriers did not have increased soluble amyloid-\u03b2, histologic amyloid-\u03b2, or tau pathology in this same region. This functional biomarker may prove useful in early detection and tracking of AD and indicates that mitochondrial mechanisms may contribute to the predisposition to AD before any evidence of amyloid or tau pathology."}
{"id": "20847161", "title": "Substructural hippocampal glucose metabolism observed on PET/MRI.", "content": "Substructural hippocampal glucose metabolism observed on PET/MRI. The hippocampus is one of the best-known neural structures in the brain and has been of interest in observing the substructures and their metabolic functions. However, it has been difficult to distinguish its substructures and functions in vivo because of its small size. (18)F-FDG PET and high-resolution MRI of the hippocampus were performed on 5 healthy subjects using a PET/MRI system. The metabolism of each hippocampal substructure was measured in vivo on the basis of the MR images. The dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis 4 showed the highest glucose uptake in the healthy subjects. Measuring glucose metabolism in the substructures of the hippocampus could provide a new tool for the future investigation of related brain diseases or functional studies, such as Alzheimer disease or memory and learning studies."}
{"id": "20837971", "title": "Glucose metabolism in progressive nonfluent aphasia with and without parkinsonism.", "content": "Glucose metabolism in progressive nonfluent aphasia with and without parkinsonism."}
{"id": "20810758", "title": "Target-specific PET probes for neurodegenerative disorders related to dementia.", "content": "Target-specific PET probes for neurodegenerative disorders related to dementia. Dementia is a highly prevalent problem causing considerable disability and mortality and exacting great costs to individuals, their families, and society. The 4 most common neurodegenerative disorders that cause dementia-Alzheimer disease, frontotemporal dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, and dementia in Parkinson disease-have different underlying etiologies and pathogenetic mechanisms. There is a great need for early diagnostic markers; functional brain imaging may therefore assist in the detection and differential diagnosis of dementia due to neurodegenerative diseases. Functional imaging such as PET allows in vivo imaging of functional brain activity indicating cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism, and PET allows imaging of neurotransmitter activity, including that of the cholinergic, dopaminergic, and serotonergic systems. New PET neuroimaging tracers are being developed for detecting pathologic parameters such as amyloid plaque and microglial activity. The development of molecular imaging is important for early diagnosis of dementia, selection of patients for therapies, and evaluation of therapies."}
{"id": "20738809", "title": "Detection of early amnestic mild cognitive impairment without significantly objective memory impairment: a case-controlled study.", "content": "Detection of early amnestic mild cognitive impairment without significantly objective memory impairment: a case-controlled study. We encountered eight early amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) patients (early MCI group) who did not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for aMCI. We compared the scores of neuropsychological examinations as well as the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose consumption (CMRglc) decrease on (18)F-FDG PET examination between the early MCI group and 10 aMCI patients (MCI group) or six normal elderly subjects (normal group), to examine whether the current diagnostic criteria can detect early-stage aMCI. The three groups underwent Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Third Edition (WAIS-III), Wechsler Memory Scale Revised (WMS-R), magnetic resonance imaging and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) examinations. The early MCI group did not show significant memory impairment of 1.0 SD or other cognitive dysfunctions on neuropsychological examinations, and did not fulfill the diagnostic criteria of aMCI. With one-way anova and Tukey's HSD post-hoc test, the early MCI group showed the highest scores for WAIS-III, whereas the MCI group showed the lowest scores for WMS-R, although there were no significant differences between the early MCI and normal groups. In order to show a discrepancy in scores between WAIS-III and WMS-R, we subtracted the scores of WMS-R from WAIS-III. Consequently, the normal group showed significantly smaller differences in scores than the other groups, although there were no significant differences between the early MCI and MCI groups. (18)F-FDG PET recognized a CMRglc decrease in the posterior cingulate gyrus and/or part of the parietotemporal area in both the MCI and early MCI groups, of which the extent and magnitude were weaker in the early MCI group. The normal group did not show a significant CMRglc. The early MCI group should be included in aMCI not only based on the discrepancy between intelligence and memory scores, but also based on the (18)F-FDG PET findings. The combination of these examinations would make it possible to diagnose early-stage aMCI."}
{"id": "20733303", "title": "Voxel-based analysis of amyloid positron emission tomography probe [C]BF-227 uptake in mild cognitive impairment and alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Voxel-based analysis of amyloid positron emission tomography probe [C]BF-227 uptake in mild cognitive impairment and alzheimer's disease. To determine early brain changes in the distribution of an amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) probe, (11)C-labeled BF-227 or [(11)C]BF-227, in order to accurately predict the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid plaque burden was evaluated using [(11)C]BF-227 PET in AD, MCI and aged normal controls. A voxel-based analysis of [(11)C]BF-227 PET images was performed to characterize the culprit brain lesion in patients with MCI who were destined to progress to AD, referred to as MCI converters (MCI-C). In addition, binding characteristics of BF-227 to amyloid deposits were examined using postmortem AD brain samples. Voxel-based statistical analyses of the BF-227 PET images clearly demonstrated an abnormal distribution of BF-227 mainly in the posterior association area in MCI-C and patients with AD. BF-227 uptake in the lateral temporal cortex was consistently observed in almost all MCI-C and patients with AD, and it distinguished MCI-C from MCI nonconverters. BF-227 binding strongly correlated with dense amyloid-\u03b2 protein plaque density, but not with diffuse plaque density in the frontal cortex. BF-227 uptake in the lateral temporal cortex is a reliable indicator that can be used for predicting prognosis in patients with MCI."}
{"id": "20705437", "title": "Discrimination of normal aging, MCI and AD with multimodal imaging measures on the medial temporal lobe.", "content": "Discrimination of normal aging, MCI and AD with multimodal imaging measures on the medial temporal lobe. This study aimed to compare the discrimination accuracy of hippocampal volume (HC-Vol), parahippocampal cingulum fractional anisotropy (PHC-FA), hippocampal glucose metabolism (HC-Glu), and any combination of the three measurements among normal control (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Three-dimensional MRI, diffusion tensor imaging, and FDG-PET were applied to age- and gender-matched 17 NC, 17 MCI, and 17 mild AD patients. Subjects also underwent a neuropsychological test battery including three verbal episodic memory tests. Logistic regression analyses were systematically conducted to select the best model for between-group discrimination. PHC-FA plus HC-Vol model, HC-Glu only model, and the model combining all three modalities were finally chosen for NC vs. MCI (discrimination accuracy: 79.4%), MCI vs. AD (73.5%), and NC vs. AD discrimination (94.1%), respectively. All the three imaging measures also showed significant correlation with all three episodic memory tests. These findings support that each imaging measure, respectively, and their combination have a stage-specific potential as a useful neuroimaging marker for detection and progression monitoring of early stage of AD."}
{"id": "20697052", "title": "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal lobar dementia in 3 families with p.Ala382Thr TARDBP mutations.", "content": "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal lobar dementia in 3 families with p.Ala382Thr TARDBP mutations. TAR DNA-binding protein 43, encoded by the TARDBP gene, has been identified as the major pathological protein of frontotemporal lobar dementia (FTLD) with or without amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and sporadic ALS. Subsequently, mutations in the TARDBP gene have been detected in 2% to 3% of patients with ALS (both familial and sporadic ALS). However, to our knowledge, there is only 1 description of 2 patients with FTLD and TARDBP gene mutations who later developed motor neuron disease. To describe cognitive abnormalities in 3 Italian families with familial ALS and TARDBP gene mutations. Genetic, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging analyses in 36 patients with familial non-superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1) ALS and 280 healthy controls. Main Outcome Measure We identified 3 index cases of familial ALS carrying the p.Ala382Thr missense mutation of the TARDBP gene and with clinical, neuroimaging, and neuropsychological features of FTLD. The p.Ala382Thr missense mutation of the TARDBP gene was absent in the 280 controls. It was present in all affected members of the 3 families for whom DNA was available. All affected members of the 3 families developed FTLD after the onset of ALS, confirmed by neuropsychological testing and hypometabolism in frontal associative areas assessed with fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography and computed tomography. Three apparently unrelated families with familial ALS carrying the p.Ala382Thr TARDBP missense mutation developed FTLD. In these families, FTLD cosegregates with ALS. Patients with ALS carrying TARDBP mutations may develop FTLD."}
{"id": "20693641", "title": "Clinically different stages of Alzheimer's disease associated by amyloid deposition with [11C]-PIB PET imaging.", "content": "Clinically different stages of Alzheimer's disease associated by amyloid deposition with [11C]-PIB PET imaging. We investigated whether [11C]-PIB PET detects underlying amyloid deposition at clinically different stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and preclinical dementia. The Japanese cohort of 214 subjects underwent cognitive testing and 60-min dynamic [11C]-PIB PET. [11C]-PIB data were acquired from 35-60 min after injection. Regions of interest were defined on co-registered MRI. Distribution volume ratios (DVR) of PIB retention were determined using Logan graphical analysis. All 56 patients with AD showed a robust increase in PIB retention in cortical areas (typical PIB AD-pattern). A mean DVR value in 11 patients with moderate AD (CDR: 2.1 \u00b1 0.4) showed significantly higher PIB retention (2.38 \u00b1 0.42, p < 0.01) than amyloid-negative healthy control (HC) subjects. The DVR values in 23 patients with very mild AD (CDR: 0.5) and 22 patients with mild AD (CDR: 1.0) were 2.32 \u00b1 0.45 and 2.34 \u00b1 0.42, respectively, similar to moderate AD. In contrast, 28 (48%) of the 58 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients (MMSE: 27.3 \u00b1 1.7) showed a typical AD-like pattern with a DVR value of 2.07 \u00b1 0.34. Further, 17 (18%) of 91 HC subjects had a typical AD-like pattern with a DVR value of 2.06 \u00b1 0.28. They did not significantly differ from very mild AD. The prevalence of AD among the 53 amyloid positive patients aged 75 years or older increased greatly to 74% whereas that of amyloid positive HC decreased by only 9% and amyloid positive MCI by 17%. Prodromal AD and AD dementia is identified, based on cognitive function and amyloid deposition by PIB PET imaging. Further, the cortical amyloid deposition could be detected at preclinical stage of AD."}
{"id": "20688814", "title": "Sequential relationships between grey matter and white matter atrophy and brain metabolic abnormalities in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Sequential relationships between grey matter and white matter atrophy and brain metabolic abnormalities in early Alzheimer's disease. Hippocampal atrophy, posterior cingulate and frontal glucose hypometabolism, and white-matter tract disruption are well described early macroscopic events in Alzheimer's disease. The relationships between these three types of alterations have been documented in previous studies, but their chronology still remains to be established. The present study used multi-modal fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging longitudinal data to address this question in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment. We found unidirectional, specific sequential relationships between: (i) baseline hippocampal atrophy and both cingulum bundle (r\u2009=\u20090.70; P\u2009=\u20093\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3) and uncinate fasciculus (r\u2009=\u20090.75; P\u2009=\u20097\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u2074) rate of atrophy; (ii) baseline cingulum bundle atrophy and rate of decline of posterior (r\u2009=\u20090.72; P\u2009=\u20092\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3); and anterior (r\u2009=\u20090.74; P\u2009=\u20091\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3) cingulate metabolism; and (iii) baseline uncinate white matter atrophy and subgenual metabolism rate of change (r\u2009=\u20090.65; P\u2009=\u20096\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3). Baseline local grey matter atrophy was not found to contribute to hypometabolism progression within the posterior and anterior cingulate as well as subgenual cortices. These findings suggest that hippocampal atrophy progressively leads to disruption of the cingulum bundle and uncinate fasciculus, which in turn leads to glucose hypometabolism of the cingulate and subgenual cortices, respectively. This study reinforces the relevance of remote mechanisms above local interactions to account for the pattern of metabolic brain alteration observed in amnestic mild cognitive impairment, and provides new avenues to assess the sequence of events in complex diseases characterized by multiple manifestations."}
{"id": "20687206", "title": "A phase I trial of deep brain stimulation of memory circuits in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A phase I trial of deep brain stimulation of memory circuits in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by functional impairment in the neural elements and circuits underlying cognitive and memory functions. We hypothesized that fornix/hypothalamus deep brain stimulation (DBS) could modulate neurophysiological activity in these pathological circuits and possibly produce clinical benefits. We conducted a phase I trial in 6 patients with mild AD receiving ongoing medication treatment. Patients received continuous stimulation for 12 months. Three main lines of investigation were pursued including: (1) mapping the brain areas whose physiological function was modulated by stimulation using standardized low-resolution electromagnetic tomography, (2) assessing whether DBS could correct the regional alterations in cerebral glucose metabolism in AD using positron emission tomography (PET), and 3) measuring the effects of DBS on cognitive function over time using clinical scales and instruments. DBS drove neural activity in the memory circuit, including the entorhinal, and hippocampal areas and activated the brain's default mode network. PET scans showed an early and striking reversal of the impaired glucose utilization in the temporal and parietal lobes that was maintained after 12 months of continuous stimulation. Evaluation of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale and the Mini Mental State Examination suggested possible improvements and/or slowing in the rate of cognitive decline at 6 and 12 months in some patients. There were no serious adverse events. There is an urgent need for novel therapeutic approaches for AD. Modulating pathological brain activity in this illness with DBS merits further investigation."}
{"id": "20680268", "title": "Type 1 cannabinoid receptor mapping with [18F]MK-9470 PET in the rat brain after quinolinic acid lesion: a comparison to dopamine receptors and glucose metabolism.", "content": "Type 1 cannabinoid receptor mapping with [18F]MK-9470 PET in the rat brain after quinolinic acid lesion: a comparison to dopamine receptors and glucose metabolism. Several lines of evidence imply early alterations in metabolic, dopaminergic and endocannabinoid neurotransmission in Huntington's disease (HD). Using [18F]MK-9470 and small animal PET, we investigated cerebral changes in type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor binding in the quinolinic acid (QA) rat model of HD in relation to glucose metabolism, dopamine D2 receptor availability and amphetamine-induced turning behaviour. Twenty-one Wistar rats (11 QA and 10 shams) were investigated. Small animal PET acquisitions were conducted on a Focus 220 with approximately 18 MBq of [18F]MK-9470, [18F]FDG and [11C]raclopride. Relative glucose metabolism and parametric CB1 receptor and D2 binding images were anatomically standardized to Paxinos space and analysed voxel-wise using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM2). In the QA model, [18F]MK-9470 uptake, glucose metabolism and D2 receptor binding were reduced in the ipsilateral caudate-putamen by 7, 35 and 77%, respectively (all p<2.10(-5)), while an increase for these markers was observed on the contralateral side (>5%, all p<7.10(-4)). [18F]MK-9470 binding was also increased in the cerebellum (p=2.10(-5)), where it was inversely correlated to the number of ipsiversive turnings (p=7.10(-6)), suggesting that CB1 receptor upregulation in the cerebellum is related to a better functional outcome. Additionally, glucose metabolism was relatively increased in the contralateral hippocampus, thalamus and sensorimotor cortex (p=1.10(-6)). These data point to in vivo changes in endocannabinoid transmission, specifically for CB1 receptors in the QA model, with involvement of the caudate-putamen, but also distant regions of the motor circuitry, including the cerebellum. These data also indicate the occurrence of functional plasticity on metabolism, D2 and CB1 neurotransmission in the contralateral hemisphere."}
{"id": "20678521", "title": "Assessing the reliability to detect cerebral hypometabolism in probable Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Assessing the reliability to detect cerebral hypometabolism in probable Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) studies report characteristic patterns of cerebral hypometabolism in probable Alzheimer's disease (pAD) and amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). This study aims to characterize the consistency of regional hypometabolism in pAD and aMCI patients enrolled in the AD neuroimaging initiative (ADNI) using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) and bootstrap resampling, and to compare bootstrap-based reliability index to the commonly used type-I error approach with or without correction for multiple comparisons. Batched SPM5 was run for each of 1000 bootstrap iterations to compare FDG-PET images from 74 pAD and 142 aMCI patients, respectively, to 82 normal controls. Maps of the hypometabolic voxels detected for at least a specific percentage of times over the 1000 runs were examined and compared to an overlap of the hypometabolic maps obtained from 3 randomly partitioned independent sub-datasets. The results from the bootstrap derived reliability of regional hypometabolism in the overall data set were similar to that observed in each of the three non-overlapping sub-sets using family-wise error. Strong but non-linear association was found between the bootstrap-based reliability index and the type-I error. For threshold p=0.0005, pAD was associated with extensive hypometabolic voxels in the posterior cingulate/precuneus and parietotemporal regions with reliability between 90% and 100%. Bootstrap analysis provides an alternative to the parametric family-wise error approach used to examine consistency of hypometabolic brain voxels in pAD and aMCI patients. These results provide a foundation for the use of bootstrap analysis characterize statistical ROIs or search regions in both cross-sectional and longitudinal FDG-PET studies. This approach offers promise in the early detection and tracking of AD, the evaluation of AD-modifying treatments, and other biologically or clinical important measurements using brain images and voxel-based data analysis techniques."}
{"id": "20669302", "title": "Typical cerebral metabolic patterns in neurodegenerative brain diseases.", "content": "Typical cerebral metabolic patterns in neurodegenerative brain diseases. The differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative brain diseases on clinical grounds is difficult, especially at an early disease stage. Several studies have found specific regional differences of brain metabolism applying [(18)F]-fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), suggesting that this method can assist in early differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative brain diseases.We have studied patients who had an FDG-PET scan on clinical grounds at an early disease stage and included those with a retrospectively confirmed diagnosis according to strictly defined clinical research criteria. Ninety-six patients could be included of which 20 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), 21 multiple system atrophy (MSA), 17 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), 10 corticobasal degeneration (CBD), 6 dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 15 Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 7 frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FDG PET images of each patient group were analyzed and compared to18 healthy controls using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM5).Disease-specific patterns of relatively decreased metabolic activity were found in PD (contralateral parietooccipital and frontal regions), MSA (bilateral putamen and cerebellar hemispheres), PSP (prefrontal cortex and caudate nucleus, thalamus, and mesencephalon), CBD (contralateral cortical regions), DLB (occipital and parietotemporal regions), AD (parietotemporal regions), and FTD (frontotemporal regions).The integrated method addressing a spectrum of various neurodegenerative brain diseases provided means to discriminate patient groups also at early disease stages. Clinical follow-up enabled appropriate patient inclusion. This implies that an early diagnosis in individual patients can be made by comparing each subject's metabolic findings with a complete database of specific disease related patterns."}
{"id": "20664945", "title": "Effect of simvastatin on burn-induced alterations in tissue specific glucose metabolism: implications for burn associated insulin resistance.", "content": "Effect of simvastatin on burn-induced alterations in tissue specific glucose metabolism: implications for burn associated insulin resistance. In addition to their primary role in lowering plasma cholesterol, statins have a variety of other actions. We studied the effect of simvastatin treatment on burn injury-induced changes in regional glucose metabolism. Groups of six CD-1 mice (male, approximately 25 g) were subjected to full thickness 30% total body surface area (TBSA) burn injury. The animals were treated with simvastatin at various doses (0.02, 0.2 and 2.0 microg/kg, i.p.) for seven days. The following morning, mice were injected with 18F labeled 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG) (50 microCi) via the tail vein. Approximately 60 min after tracer injection, the animals were sacrificed and biodistribution was measured. A sub-set of burned mice with and without statin treatment and sham controls was injected with approximately 1.0 mCi of FDG and tracer distribution was evaluated by microPET. In addition, oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) were performed in other groups of burned mice with and without statin treatment and sham controls. In the heart and brown adipose tissue (BAT), burn injury produced a highly significant increase in 18FDG accumulation (p<0.01), whereas tracer accumulation in brain was markedly reduced (p<0.01). In the heart and BAT, simvastatin treatment produced dose-dependent reductions in 18FDG accumulation. In contrast, simvastatin did not affect 18FDG accumulation in the brain. There was no effect of simvastatin treatment on 18FDG accumulation in the heart, BAT or brain of sham-treated mice. Less pronounced effects were detected in other tissues that were studied. All animals had normal plasma glucose levels (approximately 90 mg/dl). The OGTTs demonstrated insulin resistance in burn injured mice which was reversed by statin treatment. Our results indicate that simvastatin reverses burn-induced increases in 18FDG accumulation by the heart and BAT in a dose-dependent manner but does not affect burn-induced reductions of 18FDG accumulation by the brain. These findings suggest that statins exert some of their effects by tissue specific modulation of glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "20646515", "title": "[Application of positron emission tomography in evaluation of Alzheimer's disease rat model].", "content": "[Application of positron emission tomography in evaluation of Alzheimer's disease rat model]. To discuss the value of 11C-PIB PET and 18F-FDG micro PET imaging in Alzheimer's disease (AD) rat model. The AD rat model was established by injection of Abeta1-40 into rat's hippocampus. Learning and memory function were estimated by the Morris water maze. Amyloid deposit and neuron loss were observed by Congo red staining and HE staining respectively. 11C-PIB PET and 18F-FDG micro PET scan were performed. Meanwhile the findings of PET imaging were compared with the results of behavior test and histology. The uptake of 18F-FDG in hippocampus of AD rat model group was lower than that of control group (P < 0.01). The Morris water maze showed that the escape latent period of rat model group was longer than that of control group (P < 0.01). Neuron loss was found in rat model brain. Thus the result of micro-PET imaging was matched with those of the Morris water maze and HE staining. 11C-PIB was specifically bound to beta-amyloid in rat model brain, the uptake of 11C-PIB in AD rat model was higher than that of control (P < 0.05). Abeta deposit was observed in Congo red staining so that the result of 11C-PIB Micro-PET imaging was matched with that of beta-amyloid deposition. 11C-PIB Micro-PET imaging shows the plaque deposition while 18F-FDG PET imaging reflects the change of glucose metabolism in hippocampus in AD rat model. And PET scan can be used to verify the successful establishment of AD model rat model."}
{"id": "20632026", "title": "The new Alzheimer's criteria in a naturalistic series of patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "The new Alzheimer's criteria in a naturalistic series of patients with mild cognitive impairment. To test the validity of the new diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a naturalistic series of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Ninety consecutive MCI patients were enrolled in a longitudinal study on the natural history of cognitive impairment. Medial temporal (MT) atrophy on MRI was defined as hippocampal volume below the fifth percentile of the distribution in healthy elders, abnormal CSF was based on Sjogren's cutoffs for Abeta42 and tau, and temporoparietal hypometabolism on 18F-FDG PET based on Herholz's t sum score. Patients were followed clinically to detect conversion to AD (MCI-AD), non-AD dementia (MCI-nAD), or no conversion (MCI-NC). The 24 MCI-AD and 15 MCI-nAD patients had sociodemographic, clinical, and neuropsychological baseline features similar to the 51 MCI-NC patients. All MCI patients with MT atrophy converted to AD, as did all those with abnormal CSF, but only 48 and 35% of those without MT atrophy or abnormal CSF converted (p on logrank test = 0.0007 and 0.001). Prediction of AD conversion was enhanced when positivity to either MT atrophy or abnormal CSF was considered, with only 15% of those MCI patients negative on both converting to AD (p < 0.0005). Markers were not predictive of non-AD dementia conversion. The accuracy of either MT atrophy or abnormal CSF in discriminating MCI-AD from MCI-NC was good (AUC 0.82, 95% CI 0.70-0.95). MT atrophy and abnormal CSF are the single most robust predictors of conversion to AD in MCI patients, and their combination enhances prediction. AD markers are not predictive of conversion to non-AD dementia."}
{"id": "20616567", "title": "Positron emission tomography in diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical Parkinsonian syndromes (aPS) belong to the most common neurologic illnesses. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of these syndromes is primarily based on well-defined clinical criteria, however, may be difficult in early and particular preclinical/premotor stages. Molecular imaging with PET offers here a broad variety of tools supporting the classification of Parkinsonian syndromes including their early and differential diagnosis, assessment of disease progression and evaluation of the efficacy of therapies. The more widely applied PET imaging techniques have focused on the assessment of neurotransmitter systems, here predominantly the pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic functions, but also others like the serotonergic and cholinergic system. Beyond, refined methods depict distinct patterns of glucose metabolism in the various Parkinsonian syndromes, and focus on further targets such as neuroinflammation, load of amyloid plaques, and cardiac sympathetic denervation. This overview discusses the important PET applications in the field with a main emphasis on their clinical utilization but also highlights scientific applications which may grant further insights in the pathophysiology of PD and aPS."}
{"id": "20613678", "title": "Effects of BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on brain metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on brain metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Earlier studies showed that the Val66Met polymorphisms of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor differentially affect gray matter volume and brain region activities. This study used resting positron emission tomography to investigate the relationship between the polymorphisms of Val66Met and the regional cerebral metabolic rate in the brain. We analyzed the positron emission tomography images of 215 patients from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and found significant differences in the parahippocampal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus, prefrontal cortex, and inferior parietal lobule when comparing Met carriers with noncarriers among both the normal controls and those with mild cognitive impairment. For those with Alzheimer's disease, we also found additional differences in the bilateral insula between the carriers and noncarriers."}
{"id": "20606450", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease patients with mild cognitive impairment. Half of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) develop dementia. We studied topographic distribution of cerebral hypometabolism in PD with different types of MCI. This study included 61 nondemented PD patients and 14 age-matched controls. PD patients were grouped into normal cognition (PD-NC, n = 20), single amnestic (PD-SA, n = 12), single nonamnestic (PD-SN, n = 11), and multidomain MCI (PD-MD, n = 18). Using [(18)F]-fluorodeoxy-glucose PET, cerebral glucose metabolism of MCI groups was compared with that of controls and the PD-NC group. In comparison with controls, PD-NC and PD-SA groups showed no hypometabolic brain areas. However, the PD-SN group showed hypometabolism in parieto-temporo-occipital cortices. The PD-MD group showed widespread hypometabolism that predominantly involved parieto-occipital cortices. In comparison with the PD-NC group, only the PD-MD group showed hypometabolism in lateral frontal, cingulate, and parieto-temporo-occipital cortices. The distribution of hypometabolic brain areas of the PD-MD group suggests that PD-MD seems to be caused by a common pathology with PD dementia. PD-SA and PD-SN seem to be caused by very mild or topographically heterogeneous cerebral dysfunction. Longitudinal clinical and neuroimaging studies are needed to define whether PD patients with single domain MCI progress to PD-MD and finally to dementia."}
{"id": "20605004", "title": "[Conversion from MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) to Alzheimer's disease: diagnostic options and predictors].", "content": "[Conversion from MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) to Alzheimer's disease: diagnostic options and predictors]. The first part of this article deals with the concept of Mild Cognitive Impairment and its role in the pathogenesis of dementia. In the second part neuroradiologic diagnostic methods which can potentially help to predict the conversion of MCI to Alzheimer s disease (DAT) are discussed. We reviewed in PubMed published literature for reports which investigated diagnosis and progress of patients with MCI and DAT. Patients with MCI older than 65 years have a risk of 10-15%/year to develop dementia in comparison to the healthy population with a risk of 2%/year. Neuroradiologic methods such as MR-spectroscopy, FDGPET, DWI and VBM are able to differentiate patients who will convert to DAT from patients who remain stable. Structural changes can be detected prior to clinically measurable cognitive deficits. The neuroradiologic examination using MR- Spectroscopy, VBM, DWI or FDG-PET show early structural and functional changes which can predict a conversion from MCI to DAT."}
{"id": "20600914", "title": "Vascular response to acetazolamide decreases as a function of age in the arcA beta mouse model of cerebral amyloidosis.", "content": "Vascular response to acetazolamide decreases as a function of age in the arcA beta mouse model of cerebral amyloidosis. Deposition of beta-amyloid along cerebral vessels is found in most patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease. The effects of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) on the function of cerebral blood vessels were analyzed applying cerebral blood volume (CBV)-based fMRI to transgenic arcA beta mice. In a cortical brain region of interest (ROI), displaying high CAA, arcA beta mice older than 16 months showed reduced response to the vasodilatory substance acetazolamide compared to age-matched wild-type animals, both with regard to rate (vascular reactivity) and extent of vasodilation (maximal vasodilation). In a subcortical ROI, displaying little CAA, no genotype-specific decrease was observed, but maximal vasodilation decreased with age in arcA beta and wild-types. These findings indicate that vascular beta-amyloid deposits reduce the capacity of cerebral blood vessels to dilate upon demand, supporting the hypothesis that vascular beta-amyloid contributes to hypoperfusion and neurological deficits observed in AD and CAA. High diagnostic accuracy of the combined readouts in detecting vascular dysfunction in arcA beta mice was found."}
{"id": "20598287", "title": "Progression of cerebral amyloid load is associated with the apolipoprotein E \u03b54 genotype in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Progression of cerebral amyloid load is associated with the apolipoprotein E \u03b54 genotype in Alzheimer's disease. Pittsburgh Compound B ([\u00b9\u00b9C] PiB) is a specific positron emission tomography (PET) marker of cerebral amyloid deposits. Only few data have been published on in vivo longitudinal changes of amyloid load in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, with conflicting results. Therefore, little is known about the factors that influence these changes. A group of 24 patients with probable AD diagnosed by combining established clinical criteria with an AD-typical pattern in [(18)F] fluoro-deoxy-glucose PET underwent [\u00b9\u00b9C] PiB-PET examinations at baseline and after 24 months. The difference of amyloid load between the two examinations and the association with clinical and neurobiological variables was examined with a regions-of-interest approach and voxel-based analyses. Cerebral [\u00b9\u00b9C] PiB uptake ratio increased significantly by an annual rate of 3.92%. Although the increase occurred in all parts of the neocortex, no increase was detected in the archipallium. The increase was gene-dose-dependent (analysis of variance p = .012) to the number of apolipoprotein E \u03b54 alleles. Progression of dementia symptoms was correlated to the [\u00b9\u00b9C] PiB increase in numerous regions associated with cognition. The results of this study indicate that a significant increase of amyloid deposition occurs in patients with AD during a relatively short interval of its clinical course. The rate of amyloid aggregation rate is closely associated with the apolipoprotein E genotype, which might be important for the evaluation of antiamyloid drug treatment effects. The present study further emphasizes the value of amyloid-plaque imaging as a marker of disease progression and as a potential surrogate marker to be used in antiamyloid drug trials."}
{"id": "20592257", "title": "Comparing predictors of conversion and decline in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Comparing predictors of conversion and decline in mild cognitive impairment. A variety of measurements have been individually linked to decline in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), but the identification of optimal markers for predicting disease progression remains unresolved. The goal of this study was to evaluate the prognostic ability of genetic, CSF, neuroimaging, and cognitive measurements obtained in the same participants. APOE epsilon4 allele frequency, CSF proteins (Abeta(1-42), total tau, hyperphosphorylated tau [p-tau(181p)]), glucose metabolism (FDG-PET), hippocampal volume, and episodic memory performance were evaluated at baseline in patients with amnestic MCI (n = 85), using data from a large multisite study (Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative). Patients were classified as normal or abnormal on each predictor variable based on externally derived cutoffs, and then variables were evaluated as predictors of subsequent conversion to Alzheimer disease (AD) and cognitive decline (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale) during a variable follow-up period (1.9 +/- 0.4 years). Patients with MCI converted to AD at an annual rate of 17.2%. Subjects with MCI who had abnormal results on both FDG-PET and episodic memory were 11.7 times more likely to convert to AD than subjects who had normal results on both measures (p <or= 0.02). In addition, the CSF ratio p-tau(181p)/Abeta(1-42) (beta = 1.10 +/- 0.53; p = 0.04) and, marginally, FDG-PET predicted cognitive decline. Baseline FDG-PET and episodic memory predict conversion to AD, whereas p-tau(181p)/Abeta(1-42) and, marginally, FDG-PET predict longitudinal cognitive decline. Complementary information provided by these biomarkers may aid in future selection of patients for clinical trials or identification of patients likely to benefit from a therapeutic intervention."}
{"id": "20570399", "title": "Automated MRI measures predict progression to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Automated MRI measures predict progression to Alzheimer's disease. The prediction of individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) destined to develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) is of increasing clinical importance. In this study, using baseline T1-weighted MRI scans of 324 MCI individuals from two cohorts and automated software tools, we employed factor analyses and Cox proportional hazards models to identify a set of neuroanatomic measures that best predicted the time to progress from MCI to AD. For comparison, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) assessments of cellular pathology and positron emission tomography (PET) measures of metabolic activity were additionally examined. By 3 years follow-up, 60 MCI individuals from the first cohort and 58 MCI individuals from the second cohort had progressed to a diagnosis of AD. Cox models on the first cohort demonstrated significant effects for the medial temporal factor [Hazards Ratio (HR) = 0.43{95% confidence interval (CI), 0.32-0.55}, p < 0.0001], the fronto-parietoccipital factor [HR = 0.59{95% CI, 0.48-0.80}, p < 0.001], and the lateral temporal factor [HR = 0.67 {95% CI, 0.52-0.87}, p < 0.01]. When applied to the second cohort, these Cox models showed significant effects for the medial temporal factor [HR = 0.44 {0.32-0.61}, p < 0.001] and lateral temporal factor [HR = 0.49 {0.38-0.62}, p < 0.001]. In a combined Cox model, consisting of individual CSF, PET, and MRI measures that best predicted disease progression, only the medial temporal factor [HR = 0.53 {95% CI, 0.34-0.81}, p < 0.001] demonstrated a significant effect. These findings illustrate that automated MRI measures of the medial temporal cortex accurately and reliably predict time to disease progression, outperform cellular and metabolic measures as predictors of clinical decline, and can potentially serve as a predictive marker for AD."}
{"id": "20555143", "title": "Fibroblasts from PS1 mutated pre-symptomatic subjects and Alzheimer's disease patients share a unique protein levels profile.", "content": "Fibroblasts from PS1 mutated pre-symptomatic subjects and Alzheimer's disease patients share a unique protein levels profile. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), a major goal is to improve early detection, as the diagnosis cannot be made until patients exhibit a noticeable decline in cognition and the brain is irreversibly damaged. With this aim in mind, we performed proteome analysis of familial AD fibroblasts from both demented and pre-symptomatic subjects, using a 2D-PAGE based approach and then identifying proteins by mass spectrometry. We compared primary fibroblast cultures from skin biopsy of presenilin 1 (PS1) mutated patients, pre-symptomatic subjects carrying mutations in the PS1 gene but healthy at the time of skin biopsy, and age-matched individuals as control. 15 differentially expressed proteins were identified in PS1 mutated fibroblasts, related to cell adhesion and cytoskeleton, energy and glucose metabolism, stress response and ubiquitin-proteasome system, and signal transduction. Interestingly, many of these proteins have been previously associated with AD and neurodegeneration. Overall results indicated that a unique protein profile can be identified by peripheral cell analysis of PS1 mutated individuals, and showed that fibroblasts are a useful cell model for pathological investigations as well as identification of potential biomarkers for AD diagnosis at early stages."}
{"id": "20548124", "title": "[Language and semantic memory impairment in a patient with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia: a case report].", "content": "[Language and semantic memory impairment in a patient with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia: a case report]. We report the rare case of a 59-year-old man with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia (SD-MND); SD-MND was in a very early stage, and its clinical progression, especially with regard to language impairment, and abnormalities on neuroimages were evaluated for 3 years. The patient complained only of difficulties in recalling names of acquaintances and in writing kanji characters. After 1 year, he experienced difficulty in describing common objects. He developed two-way anomia only in some words, which varied from day to day. His anomia was not category-specific and was noted even with respect to words that describe color. In addition to experiencing difficulty in writing kanji characters, he experienced difficulty in writing kana characters. Muscle atrophy was observed, and he experienced weakness in his limbs, especially in the right upper limb; however, bulbar symptoms were not observed. At this point, he fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for MND. In the next year, semantic memory impairment became apparent, and he was subsequently diagnosed with SD. Deterioration in his ability to name objects in all categories, except body parts, was noted. Further, the ability of writing both kana and kanji characters was increasingly impaired. He developed bulbar symptoms and experienced increased muscle weakness. The characteristics of this patient differed from those of SD patients without MND with regard to the difficulty in writing kana characters and naming colors even though the SD-MND was in the early stage. Further, the pattern of brain hypoperfusion was different from that observed for SD patients without MND. In the case of this patient, brain hypoperfusion was found not only in the left anterior temporal lobe but also in the frontal lobe. The characteristics of his language symptoms might be related to the specific pattern of brain hypoperfusion, which might be commonly observed in patients with dementia and MND."}
{"id": "20544814", "title": "Benign hereditary chorea: clinical and neuroimaging features in an Italian family.", "content": "Benign hereditary chorea: clinical and neuroimaging features in an Italian family. Benign hereditary chorea is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by early onset nonprogressive chorea, caused by mutations of the thyroid transcription factor-1 (TITF-1) gene. Clinical heterogeneity has been reported and thyroid and respiratory abnormalities may be present. We describe 3 patients of an Italian family carrying the S145X mutation in the TITF-1 gene with mild motor delay, childhood onset dyskinesias, and subtle cognitive impairment. A child in the third generation presented with congenital hypothyroidism and neonatal respiratory distress. Imaging studies in 2 patients showed mild ventricular enlargement and empty sella at magnetic resonance imaging and hypometabolism of basal ganglia and cortex at 18-Fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography."}
{"id": "20541287", "title": "Enrichment through biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer's drugs in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Enrichment through biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer's drugs in patients with mild cognitive impairment. Clinical trials of disease modifying drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) might benefit from enrichment with true AD cases. Four hundred five MCI patients (143 converters and 262 nonconverters to AD within 2 years) of the Alzheimer's disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were used. Markers for enrichment were hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance (MRI), temporoparietal hypometabolism on FDG PET, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers (Abeta42, tau, and phospho-tau), and cortical amyloid deposition (11C-PIB positron emission tomography (PET)). Two separate enrichment strategies were tested to A) maximize the proportion of MCI converters screened in, and B) minimize the proportion of MCI converters screened out. Based on strategy A, when compared with no enrichment and ADAS-Cog as an outcome measure (sample size of 834), enrichment with 18F-FDG PET and hippocampal volume lowered samples size to 260 and 277 cases per arm, but at the cost of screening out 1,597 and 434 cases per arm. When compared with no enrichment and clinical dementia rating (CDR-SOB) as an outcome measure (sample size of 674), enrichment with hippocampal volume and Abeta42 lowered sample sizes to 191 and 291 cases per arm, with 639 and 157 screened out cases. Strategy B reduced the number of screened out cases (740 for [11C]-PIB PET, 101 hippocampal volume, 82 ADAS-COG and 330 for [18F]-FDG PET) but at the expense of decreased power and a relative increase size (740 for [11C]-PIB PET, 676 for hippocampal volume, 744 for ADAS-Cog, and 517 for [18F]-FDG PET). Enrichment comes at the price of an often relevant proportion of screened out cases, and in clinical trial settings, the balance between enrichment of screened in and loss of screened out patients should be critically discussed."}
{"id": "20539026", "title": "The value of PET in mild cognitive impairment, typical and atypical/unclear dementias: A retrospective memory clinic study.", "content": "The value of PET in mild cognitive impairment, typical and atypical/unclear dementias: A retrospective memory clinic study. This retrospective study examined the role of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in the diagnosis of atypical/unclear dementias in a memory clinic setting. A total of 94 patients with a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia, who had a PET study within 2 months of their diagnosis, were reevaluated at 5 and 18 months. Results showed that PET was associated with a change in diagnosis in 29% of patients and a 64% increase in the use of cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs). PET significantly lowered the number of atypical/unclear diagnoses from 39.4% to 16% and nearly 30% of these were found to have a typical Alzheimer's disease (AD) pattern of hypometabolism. In conclusion, the addition of PET to the investigation of atypical/unclear cases of dementia helped generating a more accurate diagnosis and initiating earlier treatment. PET was of limited contribution to typical AD and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) cases. This study provides guiding evidence about the true value of PET imaging in the day-to-day challenge of dementia diagnosis."}
{"id": "20521490", "title": "Deep brain stimulation of pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) promotes cognitive and metabolic changes: a target-specific effect or response to a low-frequency pattern of stimulation?", "content": "Deep brain stimulation of pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) promotes cognitive and metabolic changes: a target-specific effect or response to a low-frequency pattern of stimulation? Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a reliable treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, but a possible risk of worsening cognitive functions, although modest, may postpone or halt DBS clinical indication. In a small cohort of PD patients we have pioneered the simultaneous implantation of both the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg). Here we describe the cognitive test performance and the corresponding cortical metabolic activity, as assessed through 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET), of these six PD patients tested in PPTg-ON vs- PPTg-OFF condition. PPTg-ON condition (at low frequency, 25 Hz) induced better performance in tests exploring both executive and attentive domains, which were coupled with an increased glucose utilization in prefrontal and frontal bilateral cortical areas, including both lateral (i.e., BA9) and more antero-medial cortices (BA 25-32). Moreover, during PPTg-ON, a surprising increase of FDG consumption was also observed in the left ventral striatum. These data are consistent with the hypothesis of a positive effect of 25 Hz PPTg-DBS on PD patients' cognitive profile, probably due to a facilitatory effect exerted by PPTg on both associative and limbic pathways."}
{"id": "20488678", "title": "Early-onset Alzheimer disease: the contribution of neuroimaging for the diagnosis.", "content": "Early-onset Alzheimer disease: the contribution of neuroimaging for the diagnosis. The diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) at an early age of onset may be a challenging task. The diagnosis of such a type of dementia may be even more difficult when concomitant depressive symptoms occur. We report the case of a 51-year-old woman who was admitted at a Psychiatric Day Hospital presenting with depressive symptoms, visuospatial deficits, apraxia, and minor memory loss. The patient underwent long-term antidepressant therapy, but despite the improvement of depressive symptoms, there was progressive cognitive deterioration. Otherwise, the prior clinical history was unremarkable, and there was no family history of dementia. The clinical examination revealed cognitive deficits in several domains. The patient scored 12 in the Mini-Mental State Examination. Routine laboratory tests were normal. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed global brain volume loss more pronounced than would be expected for someone of the patient's age, especially in the precuneus-a pattern of posterior cortical atrophy consistent with the diagnosis of early-onset AD. Images obtained with 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) also revealed marked brain hypoperfusion involving the left parietal lobe, far beyond the regions of brain volume loss. This clinical case report illustrates the relative contribution of both MR imaging and SPECT for the diagnosis of dementia in a patient with concomitant depressive symptoms. Apart from contributing to the diagnosis of dementia beyond the traditional exclusionary approach, neuroimaging is increasingly being used to classify its particular subtypes. The role of neuroimaging role in AD is also supported by a recent proposal of revised diagnostic criteria, which take into account abnormal biomarkers of disease."}
{"id": "20472978", "title": "[Prediction of the development of Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment].", "content": "[Prediction of the development of Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment]. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered to refer to a transitional zone between normal cognitive function and dementia. It comprises a heterogenous condition with a variety of clinical outcomes. The purpose of this study was to determine whether combined analysis of brain imaging studies, including MRI and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) , and assessment of awareness of memory deficits is useful in predicting Alzheimer disease (AD) in subjects with MCI. Thirty-nine patients with amnestic MCI [21 patients who had developed AD (MCI/AD) and 18 patients who did not develop AD (MCI/MCI) during a 2.5 to 3-year follow-up] and 19 patients with early AD were included in the study. The entorhinal cortex z-score in each patient was calculated using voxel-based morphometry with 3D T1-weighted MRI (software: VSRAD) . SPECT data were analyzed by the three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection method and posterior cortical hypoperfusion was qualitatively assessed. Awareness of memory deficits was evaluated with a standardized memory questionnaire system based on the Everyday Memory Checklist (EMC) . The discrepancy between these scores (caregiver rating-patient rating) was analyzed. The MCI/AD group showed a tendency toward higher z-scores in the entorhinal cortex on MRI scan, a significantly higher frequency of posterior hypoperfusion on SPECT scan, and significantly more impaired awareness of memory deficits than in the MCI/MCI group. These findings were more severe and more frequent in the AD group than in the MCI/AD and MCI/MCI groups. A combined study of MRI, SPECT, and awareness of memory deficits yielded a higher level of discrimination between MCI/AD and MCI/MCI group results than in each separate study. A combined study of brain imagings (MRI and SPECT) and an assessment of awareness of memory deficits may improve the prediction of the development of AD in subjects with amnestic MCI."}
{"id": "20471478", "title": "Mouse models in neurological disorders: applications of non-invasive imaging.", "content": "Mouse models in neurological disorders: applications of non-invasive imaging. Neuroimaging techniques represent powerful tools to assess disease-specific cellular, biochemical and molecular processes non-invasively in vivo. Besides providing precise anatomical localisation and quantification, the most exciting advantage of non-invasive imaging techniques is the opportunity to investigate the spatial and temporal dynamics of disease-specific functional and molecular events longitudinally in intact living organisms, so called molecular imaging (MI). Combining neuroimaging technologies with in vivo models of neurological disorders provides unique opportunities to understand the aetiology and pathophysiology of human neurological disorders. In this way, neuroimaging in mouse models of neurological disorders not only can be used for phenotyping specific diseases and monitoring disease progression but also plays an essential role in the development and evaluation of disease-specific treatment approaches. In this way MI is a key technology in translational research, helping to design improved disease models as well as experimental treatment protocols that may afterwards be implemented into clinical routine. The most widely used imaging modalities in animal models to assess in vivo anatomical, functional and molecular events are positron emission tomography (PET), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and optical imaging (OI). Here, we review the application of neuroimaging in mouse models of neurodegeneration (Parkinson's disease, PD, and Alzheimer's disease, AD) and brain cancer (glioma)."}
{"id": "20457960", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography in progressive apraxia of speech and primary progressive aphasia variants.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography in progressive apraxia of speech and primary progressive aphasia variants. To determine patterns of hypometabolism on fluorodeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in patients with progressive apraxia of speech (PAS) and primary progressive aphasia (PPA) variants and to use these patterns to further refine current classification. We identified all patients who had FDG-PET and PAS or PPA who were evaluated by an expert speech-language pathologist. Patterns of hypometabolism were independently classified by 2 raters blinded to clinical data. Three speech-language pathologists reclassified all patients into 1 of 7 operationally defined categories of PAS and PPA blinded to FDG-PET data. Tertiary care medical center. Twenty-four patients with PAS or PPA and FDG-PET. Fluorodeoxyglucose F18 PET hypometabolic pattern. Of the 24 patients in the study, 9 had nonfluent speech output; 14, fluent speech; and 1 was unclassifiable. Twenty-one patients showed FDG hypometabolism; the remaining 3 did not. Among the patients showing hypometabolism, 8 had a prerolandic pattern of which 7 had nonfluent speech including progressive nonfluent aphasia (n = 3), PAS (n = 1), and mixed nonfluent aphasia/apraxia of speech (n = 3); the other patient had PPA unclassifiable. The remaining 13 had a postrolandic pattern, all with fluent speech (P < .001), including logopenic progressive aphasia (n = 6), progressive fluent aphasia (n = 6), and semantic dementia (n = 1). Patterns of hypometabolism differed between the nonfluent variants and between the fluent variants, including progressive fluent aphasia. Patterns of FDG-PET hypometabolism support the clinical categorizations of fluency, the distinction of apraxia of speech from progressive nonfluent aphasia, and the designation of a progressive fluent aphasia category."}
{"id": "20455860", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: spect and pet tracers for beta-amyloid imaging.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: spect and pet tracers for beta-amyloid imaging. The definite diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on the detection of beta amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) - which are the pathological hallmarks of the disease- in the postmortem brains. Although regional Cerebral Blood Flow (rCBF) and Cerebral Glucose Metabolism (CGM) abnormalities have already been studied in AD patients with Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET), the development of specific imaging agents for direct mapping of A\u03b2 plaques in the living brain, is a great challenge. A\u03b2 probes could significantly contribute to the early diagnosis of AD, the elucidation of the underlying neuropathological processes and the evaluation of anti-amyloid therapies which are currently under investigation. The development of SPECT and PET tracers for A\u03b2 imaging represents an active area in radiopharmaceutical design. A substantial number of potential A\u03b2 imaging radioligands have been designed and used in-vitro. They are either monoclonal antibodies to A\u03b2 and radiolabeled A\u03b2 peptides, or derivatives of histopathological stains such as Congo red (CR), chrysamine-G (CG) and Thioflavin T (TT). Though, only few of them, that display high binding affinity to A\u03b2 as well as sufficient brain penetration, have been used primarily in in-vivo studies and to a smaller degree on human subjects. Since A\u03b2 plaques are not homogenous and contain multiple binding sites that can accommodate structurally diverse compounds, they offer flexibility in designing various different probes, as potential amyloid imaging agents."}
{"id": "20451880", "title": "Japanese Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: present status and future.", "content": "Japanese Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: present status and future. Japanese Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (J-ADNI) was launched in 2008, aiming at conducting a longitudinal workup of a standardized neuroimaging, biomarker and clinico-psychological surveys. The research protocol was designed to maximize compatibility with that of US-ADNI, including structural magnetic resonance imaging analysis for the evaluation of brain atrophy, fluorodeoxyglucose and amyloid positron emission tomography, cerebrospinal fluid sampling, APOE genotyping, together with a set of clinical and psychometric tests that were prepared to achieve the highest compatibility to those used in the United States. Japanese ADNI has recruited approximately 357 participants (142 amnestic mild cognitive impairment, approximately 134 normal aged and 72 mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), as of April 15, 2010). World-wide ADNI activities will establish the rigorous quantitative descriptions of the natural course of AD in its very early stages. The data, as well as the methodologies and infrastructures, will facilitate the clinical trials of disease-modifying therapies for AD using surrogate biomarkers."}
{"id": "20448204", "title": "A mouse model characterizing features of vascular dementia with hippocampal atrophy.", "content": "A mouse model characterizing features of vascular dementia with hippocampal atrophy. We have previously described effects of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion in mice with bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) using microcoils for 30 days. These mice specifically exhibit working memory deficits attributable to frontal-subcortical circuit damage without apparent gray matter changes, indicating similarities with subcortical ischemic vascular dementia. However, as subcortical ischemic vascular dementia progresses over time, the longer-term effects that characterize the mouse model are not known. Comprehensive behavioral test batteries and histological examinations were performed in mice subjected to BCAS for up to 8 months. Laser speckle flowmetry and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography were performed to assess cerebral blood flow and metabolism at several time points. At 2 hours after BCAS, cerebral blood flow in the cerebral cortex temporarily decreased to as much as 60% to 70% of the control value but gradually recovered to >80% at 1 to 3 months. At 5 to 6 months after BCAS, reference and working memory were impaired as demonstrated by the Barnes and radial arm maze tests, respectively. Furthermore, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography demonstrated that hippocampal glucose utilization was impaired at 6 months after BCAS. Consistent with these behavioral and metabolic abnormalities, histological analyses demonstrated hippocampal atrophy with pyknotic and apoptotic cells at 8 months after BCAS. These results suggest that the longer-term BCAS model replicates advanced stages of subcortical ischemic vascular dementia when hippocampal neuronal loss becomes significant."}
{"id": "20447873", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography of mild cognitive impairment with clinical follow-up at 3 years.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography of mild cognitive impairment with clinical follow-up at 3 years. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common dementing illness. Development of effective treatments directed at AD requires an early diagnosis. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) often heralds AD. Thus, characterizing MCI is fundamental to the early diagnosis of AD. 19 MCI patients referred from a memory loss clinic and 27 healthy subjects, all followed up for 3 years. Metabolism scans (MCI minus controls) were compared voxel-wise after anatomic normalization and were examined both visually and with a computerized classifier. Agreement between raters as to whether the individual scans were normal or abnormal was high. Agreement between raters of the eventual clinical diagnosis and baseline metabolic pattern was poor. A computerized classifier was unsuccessful at classifying MCI from normal; however, its performance improved when using only prototypic AD-like MCI scans, indicating the classifier worked well when shared patterns existed in the data. Outcomes on follow-up were nine of 19 AD, five of 19 remained MCI, and five of 19 developed dementias other than AD. Both MCI cases of early Lewy body dementia (LBD) showed an AD-like metabolic pattern. Visual inspection proved reliable in determining normal from abnormal scans, but it proved unreliable at predicting diagnosis on follow-up. Computerized classification of MCI by using an AD-like metabolic template (such as derived from the averaged MCI images) showed potential to identify patients who will develop AD. However, the metabolic pattern in early LBD did not differ from that in AD."}
{"id": "20447845", "title": "The role of the thalamus in neuro-cognitive dysfunction in early unilateral hemispheric injury: a multimodality imaging study of children with Sturge-Weber syndrome.", "content": "The role of the thalamus in neuro-cognitive dysfunction in early unilateral hemispheric injury: a multimodality imaging study of children with Sturge-Weber syndrome. Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) with unilateral hemispheric involvement is a clinical model of early onset, chronic, often progressive hemispheric injury, resulting in variable neuro-cognitive impairment. To evaluate if abnormal diffusion and metabolism of the thalamus, a central relay station with extensive cortical connections, may serve as a simple imaging marker of neuro-cognitive dysfunction in SWS. We obtained both diffusion tensor imaging and FDG PET in 20 children (11 girls; age range: 3-12.4 years) with unilateral SWS. Diffusion parameters as well as FDG uptake were measured in thalami, compared to normal control values, and correlated with the extent of cortical hypometabolism, deep venous abnormalities and cognitive (IQ) as well as fine motor functions. Children with SWS had significantly higher thalamic glucose metabolic asymmetry than controls (p=0.001). Thalamic metabolic asymmetries correlated positively with the asymmetry of thalamic diffusivity (p=0.001) and also with the extent of cortical hypometabolism (p<0.001). Severe thalamic asymmetries of glucose metabolism and diffusion were strong predictors of low IQ (metabolism: p=0.002; diffusivity: p=0.01), even after controlling for age and extent of cortical glucose hypometabolism in children with left hemispheric involvement. Ipsilateral thalamic glucose hypometabolism was also associated with impairment of fine motor functions (p=0.002). Both diffusion and glucose metabolic abnormalities of the thalamus are closely related to cognitive functions, independent of age and cortical metabolic abnormalities, in children with unilateral SWS. Thalamic metabolic asymmetry is a robust but simple imaging marker of neuro-cognitive outcome in children with early unilateral hemispheric injury caused by Sturge-Weber syndrome."}
{"id": "20439507", "title": "Imaging of acute and chronic aortic dissection by 18F-FDG PET/CT.", "content": "Imaging of acute and chronic aortic dissection by 18F-FDG PET/CT. By conventional imaging modalities, the discrimination between acute and chronic aortic dissection (AD) for surgical risk evaluation is not possible. However, acute and chronic stable AD potentially may be distinguished by detection of reparatory hypermetabolism in the lacerated aortic wall of acute AD using (18)F-FDG PET/CT. In this study, we analyzed the (18)F-FDG uptake in the aortic wall of acute and chronic stable AD. Eighteen patients with acute (n = 9), symptomatic progressive (n = 2), or known chronic stable (n = 7) type B AD underwent (18)F-FDG PET/CT. Images were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively considering (18)F-FDG uptake patterns and the standardized uptake values (SUVs) of the aortic wall, dissection membrane, and luminal (18)F-FDG activity. The SUV ratio (maximum SUV in the aorta divided by mean SUV in the blood pool) was calculated to relativize individual luminal (18)F-FDG spillover effects. In contrast to chronic stable AD, all acute or acute progressive AD showed accentuated (18)F-FDG uptake at the injured aortic wall or dissection membrane. The maximum SUV of the dissection membrane or aortic wall was significantly higher (P = 0.02) in acute AD than in chronic stable AD. Thereby, SUV varied from 3.03 to 4.64 (average maximum SUV, 3.84 +/- 0.51) for the dissection membrane and from 2.22 to 4.60 (average maximum SUV, 2.94 +/- 0.81) for the aortic wall, with false-negative and false-positive outliers. The discrimination between acute and stable AD was improved significantly (P < 0.001), and false-positive or -negative outliers were eliminated, using the SUV ratio method. Our results indicate that (18)F-FDG PET/CT might be useful in differentiation of acute from chronic AD in clinically unclear cases. However, larger studies are needed to confirm our preliminary results."}
{"id": "20438629", "title": "POLG1 p.R722H mutation associated with multiple mtDNA deletions and a neurological phenotype.", "content": "POLG1 p.R722H mutation associated with multiple mtDNA deletions and a neurological phenotype. The c.2447G>A (p.R722H) mutation in the gene POLG1 of the catalytic subunit of human mitochondrial polymerase gamma has been previously found in a few occasions but its pathogenicity has remained uncertain. We set out to ascertain its contribution to neuromuscular disease. Probands from two families with probable mitochondrial disease were examined clinically, muscle and buccal epithelial DNA were analyzed for mtDNA deletions, and the POLG1, POLG2, ANT1 and Twinkle genes were sequenced. An adult proband presented with progressive external ophthalmoplegia, sensorineural hearing impairment, diabetes mellitus, dysphagia, a limb myopathy and dementia. Brain MRI showed central and cortical atrophy, and 18F-deoxyglucose PET revealed reduced glucose uptake. Histochemical analysis of muscle disclosed ragged red fibers and cytochrome c oxidase-negative fibers. Electron microscopy showed subsarcolemmal aggregates of morphologically normal mitochondria. Multiple mtDNA deletions were found in the muscle, and sequencing of the POLG1 gene revealed a homozygous c.2447G>A (p.R722H) mutation. His two siblings were also homozygous with respect to the p.R722H mutation and presented with dementia and sensorineural hearing impairment. In another family the p.R722H mutation was found as compound heterozygosity with the common p.W748S mutation in two siblings with mental retardation, ptosis, epilepsy and psychiatric symptoms. The estimated carrier frequency of the p.R722H mutation was 1:135 in the Finnish population. No mutations in POLG2, ANT1 and Twinkle genes were found. Analysis of the POLG1 sequence by homology modeling supported the notion that the p.R722H mutation is pathogenic. The recessive c.2447G>A (p.R722H) mutation in the linker region of the POLG1 gene is pathogenic for multiple mtDNA deletions in muscle and is associated with a late-onset neurological phenotype as a homozygous state. The onset of the disease can be earlier in compound heterozygotes."}
{"id": "20430977", "title": "Pittsburgh compound B (11C-PIB) and fluorodeoxyglucose (18 F-FDG) PET in patients with Alzheimer disease, mild cognitive impairment, and healthy controls.", "content": "Pittsburgh compound B (11C-PIB) and fluorodeoxyglucose (18 F-FDG) PET in patients with Alzheimer disease, mild cognitive impairment, and healthy controls. Amyloid load in the brain using Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB) positron emission tomography (PET) and cerebral glucose metabolism using fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) PET were evaluated in patients with mild Alzheimer disease (AD, n = 18), mild cognitive impairment (MCI, n = 24), and controls (CTR, n = 18). ( 11)C-PIB binding potential (BP(ND)) was higher in prefrontal cortex, cingulate, parietal cortex, and precuneus in AD compared to CTR or MCI and in prefrontal cortex for MCI compared to CTR. For (18)F-FDG, regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlu) was decreased in precuneus and parietal cortex in AD compared to CTR and MCI, with no MCI-CTR differences. For the AD-CTR comparison, precuneus BP(ND) area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) was 0.938 and parietal cortex rCMRGlu AUC was 0.915; for the combination, AUC was 0.989. ( 11)C-PIB PET BP(ND) clearly distinguished diagnostic groups and combined with (18)F-FDG PET rCMRGlu, this effect was stronger. These PET techniques provide complementary information in strongly distinguishing diagnostic groups in cross-sectional comparisons that need testing in longitudinal studies."}
{"id": "20385913", "title": "Hypometabolism in Alzheimer-affected brain regions in cognitively healthy Latino individuals carrying the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele.", "content": "Hypometabolism in Alzheimer-affected brain regions in cognitively healthy Latino individuals carrying the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele. To investigate with fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography whether regional reductions in the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) previously found in cognitively healthy late-middle-aged apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 carriers extend to members of the Latino Mexican American community. Prospective cohort study. Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Phoenix, Arizona. Eleven APOE epsilon4 carriers and 16 noncarriers from Arizona's Latino community (mean [SD] age, 54.6 [6.4] years) matched for sex, mean age, and educational level and who were predominantly of self-designated Mexican origin. A brain mapping algorithm was used to compare cross-sectional regional CMRgl in Latino APOE epsilon4 carriers vs noncarriers. Participant groups had similar distributions for age, sex, education, family history of dementia, clinical ratings, and neuropsychological test scores. Latino APOE epsilon4 carriers had lower CMRgl than the noncarriers in the posterior cingulate, precuneus, and parietal regions previously found to be preferentially affected in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and cognitively healthy non-Latino APOE epsilon4 carriers. Additionally, the Latino APOE epsilon4 carriers had lower CMRgl in the middle and anterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. This study provides support for the relationship between APOE epsilon4 and risk of AD in Latino individuals. It illustrates the role of positron emission tomography as a presymptomatic endophenotype for the assessment of AD risk factors and supports the inclusion of Latino APOE epsilon4 carriers in proof-of-concept studies using fluorodeoxyglucose PET to evaluate promising presymptomatic treatments in cognitively healthy carriers of this common AD susceptibility gene."}
{"id": "20385910", "title": "Comparing fludeoxyglucose F18-PET assessment of regional cerebral glucose metabolism and [11C]dihydrotetrabenazine-PET in evaluation of early dementia and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Comparing fludeoxyglucose F18-PET assessment of regional cerebral glucose metabolism and [11C]dihydrotetrabenazine-PET in evaluation of early dementia and mild cognitive impairment. To compare assessment of regional cerebral metabolic changes with [(11)C]dihydrotetrabenazine (DTBZ)-positron emission tomography (PET) measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (K(1)) and fludeoxyglucose F18 (FDG)-PET measurement of regional cerebral glucose uptake (CMR(glc)) in a clinically representative sample of subjects with mild dementia and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). [(11)C]Dihydrotetrabenazine-PET K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) measurements were performed. University-based cognitive disorders clinic. Fifty subjects with either mild dementia (Mini-Mental State Examination score > or = 18) or MCI. Their results were compared with those of 80 normal control subjects. The DTBZ-PET regional K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) measurements were compared with standard correlation analysis. The overall patterns of DTBZ-PET K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) deficits were assessed with stereotaxic surface projections (SSPs) of parametric images. The DTBZ-PET regional K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) measurements were highly correlated, both within and between subjects. The SSP maps of deficits in DTBZ-PET regional K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) measurements were markedly similar. The DTBZ-PET K(1) SSP maps exhibited a mild decrease in sensitivity relative to FDG-PET CMR(glc) maps. Both DTBZ-PET K(1) and FDG-PET CMR(glc) measurements provide comparable information in assessment of regional cerebral metabolic deficits in mild dementia and MCI. Blood flow measures can assess regional cerebral metabolism deficits accurately in mild dementia and MCI. Blood flow assessments of regional cerebral metabolic deficits can be combined with tracer binding results to improve utility of PET imaging in mild dementia and MCI."}
{"id": "20385255", "title": "Vascular risk factor detection and control may prevent Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Vascular risk factor detection and control may prevent Alzheimer's disease. The vascular hypothesis of Alzheimer disease (AD), first proposed by us in 1993, provides substantial evidence that suggests vascular risk factors (VRF) play a critical role in the development of cognitive decline and AD during aging. Cardiovascular and carotid artery disease, two major risk factors to AD, can conspire or independently induce chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) decades before any symptoms of cognitive impairment are expressed. The pathologic construct linking CBH to cognitive impairment and AD remains unclear but evidence shows that it may provide an opportunity to intervene in the prevention or delay of dementia onset. A preliminary randomized clinical study in cognitively healthy middle age individuals to undergo screening using carotid Doppler ultrasound, echocardiography and ankle-brachial index is proposed. These office tools are non-invasive, cost-effective, easily applied in one session and relatively accurate procedures with no inherent harmful effects. More importantly, ultrasound can help identify asymptomatic patients most likely to develop progressive cognitive decline due to persistent CBH secondary to progressive cardiovascular or carotid artery pathology. When these VRF are detected within the heart or carotid arteries, optimal medical treatment or management may be indicated to prevent or slow down further disease progression that fosters cognitive deterioration generated from such conditions. Secondary screening tools such as neuroimaging, neurocognitive testing and CSF markers may be used to confirm ultrasound findings. Prevention-by-detection of VRF and target treatment, if found effective, could significantly promote healthier mental and physical aging and lessen the socio-economic calamity anticipated from the growing prevalence of dementia."}
{"id": "20385246", "title": "Voxel-based analysis of Alzheimer's disease PET imaging using a triplet of radiotracers: PIB, FDDNP, and FDG.", "content": "Voxel-based analysis of Alzheimer's disease PET imaging using a triplet of radiotracers: PIB, FDDNP, and FDG. Beta amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and impaired glucose metabolism are among the most prevalent pathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, separate visualization of these three AD-related pathologies in living humans has not been conducted. Here, we show that positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using the three radiotracers (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PIB), 2-(1-{6-[(2-(18)F-fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene) malononitrile (FDDNP), and 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG), in the same subjects, with and without AD, can provide valuable information on the pathological patterns of the distribution of tracers for amyloid plaque, neurofibrillary tangle, and glucose hypometabolism in AD. Voxel-based analysis of PIB-PET in patients with AD compared with normal control subjects showed that patients with AD have highly significant PIB retention in brain regions known to have high amyloid plaque deposition (e.g., frontal, parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate/precuneus cortices). In contrast, voxel-based analysis of FDDNP-PET showed significantly high FDDNP binding in some brain regions known to have high tangle accumulation in patients with AD compared with age-matched normal subjects (e.g., entorhinal cortex, inferior temporal gyrus, and secondary visual cortex). In addition, because FDDNP binds both plaques and tangles but PIB binds plaques specifically, we examined subtracted PET data (FDDNP minus PIB) acquired from the same patients with AD using an SPM analysis. We found that the hippocampal formation was the most significant brain region in the voxel mapping of FDDNP minus PIB in the same patients with AD. Voxel-based analysis of FDG-PET in the same subjects revealed that brain regions with glucose hypometabolism in patients with AD overlap with regions of high PIB binding. In conclusion, PET imaging using these three radiotracers in the same subjects may contribute toward developing and testing disease-modifying drugs targeting amyloid pathology, tau pathology, and/or energy metabolism."}
{"id": "20373343", "title": "Relationship between atrophy and beta-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Relationship between atrophy and beta-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer disease. Elucidating the role of aggregated beta-amyloid in relation to gray matter atrophy is crucial to the understanding of the pathological mechanisms of Alzheimer disease and for the development of therapeutic trials. The present study aims to assess this relationship. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-positron emission tomography scans were obtained from 94 healthy elderly subjects (49 with subjective cognitive impairment), 34 patients with mild cognitive impairment, and 35 patients with Alzheimer disease. The correlations between global and regional neocortical PiB retention and atrophy were analyzed in each clinical group. Global and regional atrophy were strongly related to beta-amyloid load in participants with subjective cognitive impairment but not in patients with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer disease. Global neocortical beta-amyloid deposition correlated to atrophy in a large brain network including the hippocampus, medial frontal and parietal areas, and lateral temporoparietal cortex, whereas regional beta-amyloid load was related to local atrophy in the areas of highest beta-amyloid load only, that is, medial orbitofrontal and anterior and posterior cingulate/precuneus areas. There is a strong relationship between beta-amyloid deposition and atrophy very early in the disease process. As the disease progresses to mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease clinical stages, pathological events other than, and probably downstream from, aggregated beta-amyloid deposition might be responsible for the ongoing atrophic process. These findings suggest that antiamyloid therapy should be administered very early in the disease evolution to minimize synaptic and neuronal loss."}
{"id": "20368139", "title": "Maternal transmission of Alzheimer's disease: prodromal metabolic phenotype and the search for genes.", "content": "Maternal transmission of Alzheimer's disease: prodromal metabolic phenotype and the search for genes. After advanced age, having a parent affected with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most significant risk factor for developing AD among cognitively normal (NL) individuals. Although rare genetic mutations have been identified among the early-onset forms of familial AD (EOFAD), the genetics of the more common forms of late-onset AD (LOAD) remain elusive. While some LOAD cases appear to be sporadic in nature, genetically mediated risk is evident from the familial aggregation of many LOAD cases. The patterns of transmission and biological mechanisms through which a family history of LOAD confers risk to the offspring are not known. Brain imaging studies using 2-[ (18) F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) have shown that NL individuals with a maternal history of LOAD, but not with a paternal family history, express a phenotype characterised by a pattern of progressive reductions of brain glucose metabolism, similar to that in AD patients. As maternally inherited AD may be associated with as many as 20 per cent of the total LOAD population, understanding the causes and mechanisms of expression of this form of AD is of great relevance. This paper reviews known genetic mutations implicated in EOFAD and their effects on brain chemistry, structure and function; epidemiology and clinical research findings in LOAD, including in vivo imaging findings showing selective patterns of hypometabolism in maternally inherited AD; possible genetic mechanisms involved in maternal transmission of AD, including chromosome X mutations, mitochondrial DNA and imprinting; and genetic mechanisms involved in other neurological disorders with known or suspected maternal inheritance. The review concludes with a discussion of the potential role of brain imaging for identifying endophenotypes in NL individuals at risk for AD, and for directing investigation of potential susceptibility genes for AD."}
{"id": "20351351", "title": "Imaging approaches to Parkinson disease.", "content": "Imaging approaches to Parkinson disease. Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with nigral degeneration and striatal dopamine deficiency. Demonstrating midbrain structural abnormalities with transcranial sonography or diffusion-weighted MRI or showing striatal dopamine terminal dysfunction with PET or SPECT supports the diagnosis and rationalizes the use of dopaminergic medications. In atypical PD variants, transcranial sonography can detect striatal hyperechogenicity, and diffusion-weighted imaging can detect increased putamen water diffusion, whereas (18)F-FDG PET reveals reduced lentiform nucleus glucose metabolism. PET and SPECT can detect changes in striatal dopamine levels after levodopa administration and relate these to motor responses. Loss of cortical dopaminergic and cholinergic function is present in demented PD and, on occasion, amyloid deposits can be detected. Loss of cardiac sympathetic innervation can be sensitively detected in PD with (18)F-dopamine PET or (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine SPECT. Finally, PET can detect widespread brain inflammation in PD. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for diagnosing and managing different parkinsonian syndromes."}
{"id": "20332639", "title": "Comparison of neuropsychological and FDG-PET findings between early- versus late-onset mild cognitive impairment: A five-year longitudinal study.", "content": "Comparison of neuropsychological and FDG-PET findings between early- versus late-onset mild cognitive impairment: A five-year longitudinal study. Our purpose was to investigate differences in neuropsychological characteristics and glucose metabolism between early-onset mild cognitive impairment (EOMCI) and late onset MCI (LOMCI) patients and to determine if the baseline differences are predictive of conversion to dementia. We enrolled 28 patients with MCI (12 EOMCI, 16 LOMCI) and 2 age-matched control groups. At the end of a 5-year follow-up, we compared the baseline neuropsychological and PET data between converters and nonconverters. The EOMCI patients obtained significantly higher scores in verbal recall and word fluency tests than the LOMCI patients. The EOMCI group, compared to the young controls, demonstrated hypometabolism in brain regions vulnerable in mild Alzheimer's disease. Converters were significantly more impaired in the delayed verbal recall test than nonconverters (p = 0.028) and tended to be more impaired in the semantic word fluency test (p = 0.084). The baseline PET scan of the converters demonstrated severer hypometabolism in frontal areas than that of the nonconverters both in the EOMCI and LOMCI groups. Our study suggests that EOMCI patients may differ from LOMCI in the patterns of cognitive deficits and glucose hypometabolism. In addition, baseline neuropsychological and FDG-PET findings suggest that MCI patients with poor memory or frontal dysfunction are at greater risk of conversion to dementia."}
{"id": "20299441", "title": "Effects of age on the glucose metabolic changes in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Effects of age on the glucose metabolic changes in mild cognitive impairment. Decreased glucose metabolism in the temporal and parietal lobes on FDG-PET is recognized as an early imaging marker for the AD pathology. Our objective was to investigate the effects of age on FDG-PET findings in aMCI. Twenty-five patients with aMCI at 55-86 years of age (median = 73 years) and 25 age- and sex-matched CN subjects underwent FDG-PET. SPM5 was used to compare the FDG uptake in patients in aMCI-old (>73 years) and aMCI-young (<or=73 years) groups with CN subjects. The findings in the aMCI-old patients were independently validated in a separate cohort of 10 aMCI and 13 CN subjects older than 73 years of age. The pattern of decreased glucose metabolism and gray matter atrophy in the medial temporal, posterior cingulate, precuneus, lateral parietal, and temporal lobes in aMCI-young subjects was consistent with the typical pattern observed in AD. The pattern of glucose metabolic changes in aMCI-old subjects was different, predominantly involving the frontal lobes and the left parietal lobe. Gray matter atrophy in aMCI-old subjects was less pronounced than that in the aMCI-young subjects, involving the hippocampus and the basal forebrain in both hemispheres Pathologic heterogeneity may be underlying the absence of AD-like glucose metabolic changes in older compared with younger patients with aMCI. This may be an important consideration for the clinical use of temporoparietal hypometabolism on FDG-PET as a marker for early diagnosis of AD in aMCI."}
{"id": "20237871", "title": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with posttraumatic cognitive impairment after memantine therapy: a preliminary study.", "content": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with posttraumatic cognitive impairment after memantine therapy: a preliminary study. To investigate the changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with posttraumatic cognitive impairment after memantine therapy. We performed serial F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography studies before and after memantine therapy (20 mg per day) on 17 patients with posttraumatic cognitive impairment using statistical parametric mapping analysis. In addition, covariance analysis was performed to identify regions, where changes in regional cerebral glucose metabolism correlated significantly with increased Mini-Mental Status Examination scores. Statistical parametric mapping analysis demonstrated that, compared with baseline, significantly increased cerebral glucose metabolism occurred in both inferior, middle and superior frontal gyri, both angular gyri, both precuneus, the right middle cingulum, the left inferior parietal lobule, the left fusiform gyrus, the left precentral gyrus, the left paracentral lobule, and the left lingual gyrus after memantine therapy (P (uncorrected) < 0.005). In contrast, cerebral glucose metabolism was significantly decreased in both cerebellum, the left thalamus, the left olfactory, the right middle temporal gyrus, the right amygdala, and the right insula (P (uncorrected) < 0.005). In the correlation analysis, improvements in Mini-Mental Status Examination scores after memantine therapy were significantly associated with increased cerebral glucose metabolism in the inferior and middle frontal gyri and the inferior parietal lobule of the left hemisphere (P (corrected) < 0.0001). Our findings indicate that the prefrontal and the parietal association cortices may be the relevant structures for the pharmacological response to memantine therapy in patients with posttraumatic cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "20220580", "title": "Effect of memantine treatment on regional cortical metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effect of memantine treatment on regional cortical metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Cortical systems involved in the response to medication treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are poorly understood. Preclinical studies have demonstrated the effect of memantine on neuroreceptors and cell physiology, although the impact of treatment on cortical activity in vivo is not known. F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and clinical assessment before and after open-label memantine treatment. Seventeen outpatients with probable AD on stable cholinesterase inhibitor medication. Memantine up to 10 mg twice daily for 10 weeks. Voxel-based analyses of change in cortical metabolic activity; Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS), and Neurobehavioral Rating Scale (NRS). : Mean age was 81 years; mean Mini-Mental State Examination score was 19.4. Compared with baseline, metabolic activity was significantly higher after 10 weeks memantine treatment in two cortical regions bilaterally: the inferior temporal gyrus (BA 20) and the angular gyrus/supramarginal gyrus (BA 39, 40). There was no significant relationship between change in DRS score and change in cortical metabolism, although change in NRS score was associated with the extent of metabolic change in the right parietal and temporal cortex. Metabolic activity in bilateral inferior parietal and temporal cortex increases during 10 weeks of memantine treatment in patients with AD. PET imaging can reveal functional effects of medications on neural activity and may help to define critical mechanisms involved in drug treatment."}
{"id": "20220321", "title": "ASL perfusion MRI predicts cognitive decline and conversion from MCI to dementia.", "content": "ASL perfusion MRI predicts cognitive decline and conversion from MCI to dementia. We compared the predictive value of cerebral perfusion as measured by arterial-spin labeling magnetic resonance imaging (ASL-MRI) with MRI-derived hippocampal volume for determining future cognitive and functional decline and subsequent conversion from mild cognitive impairment to dementia. Forty-eight mild cognitive impairment subjects received structural and ASL-MRI scans at baseline and clinical and neuropsychologic assessments annually. Thirteen subjects became demented during the period of longitudinal observation (2.7+/-1.0 y). Cox regression analyses suggest that baseline hippocampal volume [relative risk (RR)=0.99, P=0.004], baseline right inferior parietal (RR=0.64, P=0.01) and right middle frontal (RR=0.73, P=0.01) perfusion were associated with conversion to dementia. Results from linear mixed effects modeling suggest that baseline perfusion from the right precuneus predicted subsequent declines in Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (P=0.002), Functional Activates Questionnaire (P=0.01), and selective attention (ie, Stroop switching, P=0.009) whereas baseline perfusion from the right middle frontal cortex predicted subsequent episodic memory decline (ie, total recognition discriminability score from the California Verbal Learning Test, P=0.03). These results suggest that hypoperfusion as detected by ASL-MRI can predict subsequent clinical, functional, and cognitive decline and may be useful for identifying candidates for future Alzheimer disease treatment trials."}
{"id": "20220122", "title": "Comparative analysis of brain structure, metabolism, and cognition in myotonic dystrophy 1 and 2.", "content": "Comparative analysis of brain structure, metabolism, and cognition in myotonic dystrophy 1 and 2. Myotonic dystrophy type 1 and 2 (DM1/DM2) are multisystemic diseases with common cognitive deficits beside the cardinal muscular symptoms. We performed a comprehensive analysis of cerebral abnormalities to compare the neuropsychological defects with findings in different imaging methods in the same cohort of patients. Neuropsychological investigations, structural cerebral MRI including brain parenchymal fraction (BPF) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM), and (18)F-deoxy-glucose PET (FDG-PET) were performed in patients (20 DM1 and 9 DM2) and matched healthy controls, and analyzed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2). DM1 and DM2 patients showed typical neuropsychological deficits with a pronounced impairment of nonverbal episodic memory. Both patient groups showed a reduction of the global gray matter (measured by BPF), which could be localized to the frontal and parietal lobes by VBM. Interestingly, VBM revealed a bilateral hippocampal volume reduction that was correlated specifically to both a clinical score and episodic memory deficits. VBM also revealed a pronounced change of thalamic gray matter. White matter lesions were found in >50% of patients and their extent was correlated to psychomotor speed. FDG-PET revealed a frontotemporal hypometabolism, independent of the decrease in cortical gray matter. All abnormalities were similar in both patient groups but more pronounced for DM1. Our results suggest that 1) some of the characteristic cognitive deficits of these patients are linked to specific structural cerebral changes, 2) decreases in gray matter and metabolism are independent processes, and 3) the widespread brain abnormalities are more pronounced in DM1."}
{"id": "20206704", "title": "Detection by voxel-wise statistical analysis of significant changes in regional cerebral glucose uptake in an APP/PS1 transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Detection by voxel-wise statistical analysis of significant changes in regional cerebral glucose uptake in an APP/PS1 transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Biomarkers and technologies similar to those used in humans are essential for the follow-up of Alzheimer's disease (AD) animal models, particularly for the clarification of mechanisms and the screening and validation of new candidate treatments. In humans, changes in brain metabolism can be detected by 1-deoxy-2-[(18)F] fluoro-D-glucose PET (FDG-PET) and assessed in a user-independent manner with dedicated software, such as Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). FDG-PET can be carried out in small animals, but its resolution is low as compared to the size of rodent brain structures. In mouse models of AD, changes in cerebral glucose utilization are usually detected by [(14)C]-2-deoxyglucose (2DG) autoradiography, but this requires prior manual outlining of regions of interest (ROI) on selected sections. Here, we evaluate the feasibility of applying the SPM method to 3D autoradiographic data sets mapping brain metabolic activity in a transgenic mouse model of AD. We report the preliminary results obtained with 4 APP/PS1 (64+/-1 weeks) and 3 PS1 (65+/-2 weeks) mice. We also describe new procedures for the acquisition and use of \"blockface\" photographs and provide the first demonstration of their value for the 3D reconstruction and spatial normalization of post mortem mouse brain volumes. Despite this limited sample size, our results appear to be meaningful, consistent, and more comprehensive than findings from previously published studies based on conventional ROI-based methods. The establishment of statistical significance at the voxel level, rather than with a user-defined ROI, makes it possible to detect more reliably subtle differences in geometrically complex regions, such as the hippocampus. Our approach is generic and could be easily applied to other biomarkers and extended to other species and applications."}
{"id": "20205671", "title": "High PIB retention in Alzheimer's disease is an early event with complex relationship with CSF biomarkers and functional parameters.", "content": "High PIB retention in Alzheimer's disease is an early event with complex relationship with CSF biomarkers and functional parameters. New in vivo amyloid PET imaging tracers, such as (11)C-PIB, provide possibilities to deeper understand the underlying pathological processes in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we investigated how (11)C-PIB retention is related to cerebral glucose metabolism, episodic memory and CSF biomarkers. Thirty-seven patients with mild AD and 21 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) underwent PET examinations with the amyloid tracer (11)C-PIB, (18)F-FDG for measurement of regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc), assessment of episodic memory and assay of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) levels of amyloid-beta (Abeta(1-42)), total tau and phosphorylated tau respectively. Analyses were performed using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) and regions of interest (ROIs). Pooled data from AD and MCI patients showed strong correlations between (11)C-PIB retention, levels of CSF biomarkers (especially Abeta(1-42)), rCMRglc and episodic memory. Analysis of the MCI group alone revealed significant correlations between (11)C-PIB retention and CSF biomarkers and between CSF biomarkers and episodic memory respectively. A strong correlation was observed in the AD group between rCMRglc and episodic memory as well as a significant correlation between (11)C-PIB retention and rCMRglc in some cortical regions. Regional differences were observed as sign for changes in temporal patterns across brain regions. A complex pattern was observed between pathological and functional markers with respect to disease stage (MCI versus AD) and brain regions. Regional differences over time were evident during disease progression. (11)C-PIB PET and CSF Abeta(42) allowed detection of prodromal stages of AD. Amyloid imaging is useful for early diagnosis and evaluation of new therapeutic interventions in AD."}
{"id": "20202480", "title": "Twelve-month metabolic declines in probable Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment assessed using an empirically pre-defined statistical region-of-interest: findings from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.", "content": "Twelve-month metabolic declines in probable Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment assessed using an empirically pre-defined statistical region-of-interest: findings from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by specific and progressive reductions in fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl), some of which may precede the onset of symptoms. In this report, we describe twelve-month CMRgl declines in 69 probable AD patients, 154 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, and 79 cognitively normal controls (NCs) from the AD Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). We introduce the use of an empirically pre-defined statistical region-of-interest (sROI) to characterize CMRgl declines with optimal power and freedom from multiple comparisons, and we estimate the number of patients needed to characterize AD-slowing treatment effects in multi-center randomized clinical trials (RCTs). The AD and MCI groups each had significant twelve-month CMRgl declines bilaterally in posterior cingulate, medial and lateral parietal, medial and lateral temporal, frontal and occipital cortex, which were significantly greater than those in the NC group and correlated with measures of clinical decline. Using sROIs defined based on training sets of baseline and follow-up images to assess CMRgl declines in independent test sets from each patient group, we estimate the need for 66 AD patients or 217 MCI patients per treatment group to detect a 25% AD-slowing treatment effect in a twelve-month, multi-center RCT with 80% power and two-tailed alpha=0.05, roughly one-tenth the number of the patients needed to study MCI patients using clinical endpoints. Our findings support the use of FDG PET, brain-mapping algorithms and empirically pre-defined sROIs in RCTs of AD-slowing treatments."}
{"id": "20182039", "title": "Cerebral blood flow measurement by PET in hypertensive subjects as a marker of cognitive decline.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow measurement by PET in hypertensive subjects as a marker of cognitive decline. Recent epidemiological studies have shown that hypertension is a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) including silent cerebral infarction and white matter lesions could represent hypertensive target organ damage in the brain and may be reliable predictors for incident dementia. However, there have been few measures to classify those patients with CSVD who are at high risk for cognitive decline and dementia. Although cerebral hypoperfusion is central to the vascular hypothesis of AD, there have been no studies linking cerebral blood flow (CBF) and future cognitive decline. Using positron emission tomography, we have demonstrated a moderate association between CBF under baseline conditions and cognitive decline during a 3-year follow-up study in 27 hypertensive patients (r=0.59, P=0.001). Findings from randomized clinical trials together with our results suggest that the preservation or improvement of CBF by anti-hypertensive treatment might be effective for the prevention of cognitive decline and dementia, especially in hypertensive patients with CSVD."}
{"id": "20181924", "title": "Neurotransmitter changes in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson disease dementia in vivo.", "content": "Neurotransmitter changes in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson disease dementia in vivo. Although Parkinson disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) show a wide clinical and neuropathologic overlap, they are differentiated according to the order and latency of cognitive and motor symptom appearance. Whether both are distinct disease entities is an ongoing controversy. Therefore, we directly compared patients with DLB and PDD with multitracer PET. PET with (18)fluorodopa (FDOPA), N-(11)C-methyl-4-piperidyl acetate (MP4A), and (18)fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was performed in 8 patients with PDD, 6 patients with DLB, and 9 patients with PD without dementia vs age-matched controls. Data were analyzed with voxel-based statistical parametric mapping and region of interest-based statistics. We found a reduced FDOPA uptake in the striatum and in limbic and associative prefrontal areas in all patient groups. Patients with PDD and patients with DLB showed a severe MP4A and FDG binding reduction in the neocortex with increasing signal diminution from frontal to occipital regions. Significant differences between PDD and DLB were not found in any of the radioligands used. Patients with PD without dementia had a mild cholinergic deficit and no FDG reductions vs controls. Patients with dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson disease dementia share the same dopaminergic and cholinergic deficit profile in the brain and seem to represent 2 sides of the same coin in a continuum of Lewy body diseases. Cholinergic deficits seem to be crucial for the development of dementia in addition to motor symptoms. The spatial congruence of cholinergic deficits and energy hypometabolism argues for cortical deafferentation due to the degeneration of projection fibers from the basal forebrain."}
{"id": "20177696", "title": "Progressive anterior operculum syndrome due to FTLD-TDP: a clinico-pathological investigation.", "content": "Progressive anterior operculum syndrome due to FTLD-TDP: a clinico-pathological investigation. Pathological investigation of progressive anterior operculum syndrome has rarely been reported. We describe clinico-pathological findings in a patient with progressive anterior operculum syndrome. A 74-year-old right-handed man had noticed speech and swallowing difficulties 1 year previously. Neurological examinations showed no abnormality other than a slight limitation of upward gaze and slow tongue movement without fibrillation. We investigated the patient using neuroimaging and neuropsychological examinations and observed him for 2 years until his death, at which point we obtained pathological findings. The patient's facial and masseteric muscles seemed hypotonic with drooling, but he could laugh and yawn normally, showing automatic voluntary dissociation. Palatal and pharyngeal reflexes were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging showed cortical atrophy in the temporal lobes bilaterally. (123)IMP single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography showed decreased blood flow and activity in the frontotemporal lobes, predominantly on the left side. Neuropsychological examinations showed no aphasia, dementia or other neuropsychological abnormality. Intubation fiberscopy, laryngoscopy and video fluorography showed no abnormality. After 6 months his anarthria and dysphagia became aggravated. He died of aspiration pneumonia 2 years after onset. Postmortem examination revealed neuronal degeneration with TDP-43-positive inclusions in the frontal, temporal and insular cortices, consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP inclusions (FTLD-TDP). However, neuronal loss with gliosis was more prominent in the inferior part of the motor cortices, bilaterally. Progressive anterior operculum syndrome could be classified as a variant of FTLD-TDP."}
{"id": "20164587", "title": "Vascular risk profiles for dementia and Alzheimer's disease in very old people: a population-based longitudinal study.", "content": "Vascular risk profiles for dementia and Alzheimer's disease in very old people: a population-based longitudinal study. Numerous studies have linked individual vascular factors to dementia including Alzheimer's disease (AD). We investigated different vascular risk profiles in relation to dementia and AD among very old people. A standardized follow-up procedure was applied three times to a dementia-free cohort (n=1270, age >or= 75) over a nine-year period to detect dementia and AD cases using the DSM-III-R criteria. We examined two vascular risk profiles, which were scored by counting the number of corresponding vascular factors: 1) atherosclerotic profile included systolic pressure >or= 160 mmHg, diabetes/prediabetes, and stroke; and 2) cerebral hypoperfusion profile constituted diastolic pressure < 70 mmHg, pulse pressure < 70 mmHg, and heart failure. Data were analyzed with Cox proportional-hazards models controlling for major potential confounders. During the 6406 person-years of follow-up, 428 subjects developed dementia, including 328 AD cases. All components of vascular profiles were significantly or marginally associated with increased dementia risk. The risk of dementias was increased with increasing score of both risk profiles (p for trend <or= 0.001); subjects with a score >or= 2 in either profile had an approximately twofold-increased risk for dementia and AD. These data suggest that aggregation of atherosclerotic- and hypoperfusion-related vascular factors increases the risk of dementia in very old people. Severe cerebral atherosclerosis and insufficient perfusion are involved in the development of dementia including AD."}
{"id": "20164554", "title": "Controlled memory processes in questionable Alzheimer's disease: a view from neuroimaging research.", "content": "Controlled memory processes in questionable Alzheimer's disease: a view from neuroimaging research. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a progressive loss of controlled cognitive processes, and neuroimaging studies at early stages of AD provide an opportunity to tease out the neural correlates of controlled processes. Accordingly, controlled and automatic memory performance was assessed with the Process Dissociation Procedure in 50 patients diagnosed with questionable Alzheimer's disease (QAD). The patients' brain glucose metabolism was measured using FDG-PET. After a follow-up period of 36 months, 27 patients had converted to AD, while 23 remained stable. Both groups showed a similar decrease in controlled memory processes but preserved automatic processes at entry into the study. Voxel-based cognitive and metabolic correlations showed that a decrease in controlled memory processes was preferentially correlated with lower activity in the dorsomedial prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortices in very early AD patients. In stable QAD patients, reduced controlled performance in verbal memory correlated with impaired activity in the left anterior hippocampal structure. The results demonstrate the central role of a medial frontal-posterior cingulate network for controlled processing of episodic memory in the early stages of AD."}
{"id": "20163446", "title": "Posterior glucose hypometabolism in Lafora disease: early and late FDG-PET assessment.", "content": "Posterior glucose hypometabolism in Lafora disease: early and late FDG-PET assessment. Establishing an early diagnosis of Lafora disease (LD) is often challenging. We describe two cases of LD presenting as myoclonus and tonic-clonic seizures, initially suggesting idiopathic generalized epilepsy. The subsequent course of the disease was characterized by drug-resistant myoclonic epilepsy, cognitive decline, and visual symptoms, which oriented the diagnosis toward progressive myoclonic epilepsy and, more specifically, LD. Early in the evolution in the first case, and before histopathologic and genetic confirmation of LD in both cases, [18]Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) revealed posterior hypometabolism, consistent with the well-known posterior impairment in this disease. This suggests that FDG-PET could help to differentiate LD in early stages from other progressive myoclonic epilepsies, but confirmation is required by a longitudinal study of FDG-PET in progressive myoclonic epilepsy."}
{"id": "20157257", "title": "Artificial neural networks identify the predictive values of risk factors on the conversion of amnestic mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Artificial neural networks identify the predictive values of risk factors on the conversion of amnestic mild cognitive impairment. The search for markers that are able to predict the conversion of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is crucial for early mechanistic therapies. Using artificial neural networks (ANNs), 22 variables that are known risk factors of AD were analyzed in 80 patients with aMCI, for a period spanning at least 2 years. The cases were chosen from 195 aMCI subjects recruited by four Italian Alzheimer's disease units. The parameters of glucose metabolism disorder, female gender, and apolipoprotein E epsilon3/epsilon4 genotype were found to be the biological variables with high relevance for predicting the conversion of aMCI. The scores of attention and short term memory tests also were predictors. Surprisingly, the plasma concentration of amyloid-beta (42) had a low predictive value. The results support the utility of ANN analysis as a new tool in the interpretation of data from heterogeneous and distinct sources."}
{"id": "20154432", "title": "Reversible alcohol-related dementia: a five-year follow-up study using FDG-PET and neuropsychological tests.", "content": "Reversible alcohol-related dementia: a five-year follow-up study using FDG-PET and neuropsychological tests. As the pathophysiology of alcohol-related dementia (ARD) is unclear, we examined a patient with reversible ARD using neuropsychological tests and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). A five-year follow-up case study with neuropsychological tests and FDG-PET. Kyoto University Hospital. Patients A 42-year-old patient who was unable to perform his office duties because of slowly progressive amnesia with executive dysfunction. The initial evaluation with neuropsychological tests showed severe verbal memory disturbance. The patient did not discuss his excessive alcohol consumption in the initial history-taking session and thiamine deficiency was absent; therefore, early-stage Alzheimer's disease was suspected. Later, the patient revealed prior excessive alcohol intake and his cognitive function improved markedly after a period of abstinence. Retrospective analysis of initial FDG-PET images using a voxel-wise statistical method revealed glucose hypometabolism in the diencephalon and basal forebrain. Follow-up for 5 years after the initial evaluation showed improved cognitive function and recovery of glucose metabolism in the two brain regions. Hypofunction in the diencephalon and basal forebrain was associated with cognitive decline in our patient. This case may provide evidence for the etiopathic brain regions in reversible type ARD."}
{"id": "20139997", "title": "The use of PET in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "The use of PET in Alzheimer disease. In Alzheimer disease (AD), which is the most common cause of dementia, the underlying disease pathology most probably precedes the onset of cognitive symptoms by many years. Thus, efforts are underway to find early diagnostic markers as well as disease-modifying treatments for this disorder. PET enables various brain systems to be monitored in living individuals. In patients with AD, PET can be used to investigate changes in cerebral glucose metabolism, various neurotransmitter systems, neuroinflammation, and the protein aggregates that are characteristic of the disease, notably the amyloid deposits. These investigations are helping to further our understanding of the complex pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie AD, as well as aiding the early and differential diagnosis of the disease in the clinic. In the future, PET studies will also be useful for identifying new therapeutic targets and monitoring treatment outcomes. Amyloid imaging could be useful as early diagnostic marker of AD and for selecting patients for anti-amyloid-beta therapy, while cerebral glucose metabolism could be a suitable PET marker for monitoring disease progression. For the near future, multitracer PET studies are unlikely to be used routinely in the clinic for AD, being both burdensome and expensive; however, such studies are very informative in a research context."}
{"id": "20138537", "title": "Cerebral functions and metabolism after antegrade selective cerebral perfusion in aortic arch surgery.", "content": "Cerebral functions and metabolism after antegrade selective cerebral perfusion in aortic arch surgery. Antegrade selective cerebral perfusion (ASCP) represents the best method of cerebral protection during surgery of the thoracic aorta. However, brain integrity and metabolism after antegrade cerebral perfusion have not yet been investigated. We assessed cerebral positron emission tomography (PET), diffusion-weighted imaging, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and cognitive functions in patients undergoing either ASCP or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) to elucidate whether cerebral perfusion was associated with postoperative neuronal alterations, metabolic deficit or cognitive decline. Seventeen patients undergoing aortic arch surgery using ASCP with moderate hypothermia (26 degrees C) (ASCP group) and 15 patients undergoing elective on-pump CABG (CABG group) were prospectively enrolled in the study. Brain PET, diffusion-weighted imaging, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and neuropsychometric testing were performed preoperatively, and at 1 week and 6 months postoperatively (T1, T2 and T3, respectively). Patient data were compared for statistic analysis with a normal database made up of healthy subjects. One patient in each group was excluded because they refused postoperative evaluation. There were neither strokes nor hospital deaths. Two patients suffered from temporary neurological dysfunction (one in each group). Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not reveal significant alterations in cortical N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) content within and between the groups at T2 and T3. In the ASCP group, brain diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance showed a significant increase of the apparent diffusion coefficient values, reflecting vasogenic cerebral oedema, at T2, that disappeared at T3. Magnetic resonance detected new focal brain lesions in two CABG group patients. In seven ASCP group patients, PET scan showed glucose hypometabolism in the occipital lobes at T2, which disappeared in five patients at successive examination (T3). Significant cognitive decline was not observed in any patient. Test score changes between and within groups were not significant. There was no evidence of ischaemic brain injury after ASCP even if some degree of reversible brain oedema secondary to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was present. The cognitive outcomes in patients undergoing ASCP were comparable to patients undergoing coronary artery bypass. The lack of left subclavian artery perfusion during cerebral perfusion leads to temporary glucose hypometabolism in the occipital lobes without neuronal injury."}
{"id": "20129319", "title": "White matter integrity and cortical metabolic associations in aging and dementia.", "content": "White matter integrity and cortical metabolic associations in aging and dementia. Studies show that white matter hyperintensities, regardless of location, primarily affect frontal lobe metabolism and function. This report investigated how regional white matter integrity (measured as fractional anisotropy [FA]) relates to brain metabolism, to unravel the complex relationship between white matter changes and brain metabolism. To elucidate the relationship between white matter integrity and gray matter metabolism using diffusion tensor imaging and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography in a cohort of 16 subjects ranging from normal to demented (age, >55 years). Mean FA values from white matter regions underlying the medial prefrontal, inferior-lateral prefrontal, parietal association, and posterior temporal areas and the corpus callosum were regressed with glucose metabolism (by positron emission tomography), using statistical parametric mapping (P < 0.005; voxel cluster, >100). Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was the primary outcome measure. According to our hypothesis, those hypometabolic cortical regions affected by Alzheimer's disease would correlate with a lower FA of associated tracks. Our data show inter-regional positive correlations between FA and gray matter metabolism for the prefrontal cortex, temporal, and parietal regions. Our results suggest that left prefrontal FA is associated with left temporal and parietal metabolism. Further, left posterior temporal FA correlated with left prefrontal metabolism. Finally, bilateral parietal FA correlated with bilateral temporal metabolism. These regions are associated with cognitive processes affected in Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease, suggesting a link with white matter degeneration and gray matter hypometabolism. Therefore, cortical function and white matter degeneration are related in aging and dementia."}
{"id": "20110699", "title": "Metabolic compensation and depression in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Metabolic compensation and depression in Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to map metabolic compensation and depression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Twenty-one healthy elderly subjects and 25 AD patients underwent cerebral MR and FDG-PET imaging. All images were processed with SPM2, and whole-brain gray matter (GM) atrophy and hypometabolism maps were computed. Metabolic compensation and depression were assessed using Biological Parametric Mapping software. GM atrophy and hypometabolism mapped to similar regions, with varying degrees of severity. Significant metabolic compensation was found in the amygdala, while exceeding hypometabolism was mainly located in the posterior cingulate cortex. Metabolic depression can be due to both distant effects of atrophy and to additional hypometabolism-inducing factors, such as amyloid deposition. Conversely, metabolic compensation could reflect spared synaptic plasticity of the surviving neurons. The investigation of the metabolic compensation mechanism could help in the comprehension of the AD underlying pathology."}
{"id": "20089913", "title": "Abnormalities in metabolic network activity precede the onset of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Abnormalities in metabolic network activity precede the onset of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease. Imaging studies show that Parkinson's disease (PD) alters the activity of motor- and cognition-related metabolic brain networks. However, it is not known whether the network changes appear at or before symptom onset. In this study, we examined 15 hemiparkinsonian patients who underwent serial metabolic imaging with [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET at baseline and again 2.1 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD) and 3.9 +/- 0.7 years later. We assessed longitudinal changes in network activity in each cerebral hemisphere, focusing specifically on the \"presymptomatic\" hemisphere--ipsilateral to the initially involved body side. At the network level, the activity of the PD motor-related pattern (PDRP) increased symmetrically in both hemispheres over time (p < 0.001), with significant bilateral elevations at each of the three time points. Hemispheric expression of the PD cognition-related pattern likewise increased symmetrically (p < 0.001), although significant elevations were not evident on either side until 4 years. At the regional level, putamen metabolism contralateral to the initially affected body side was elevated at all three time points, without longitudinal change. In contrast, in the initially presymptomatic hemisphere, putamen metabolic activity increased steadily over time, reaching abnormal levels only at 4 years. Metabolic activity in the contralateral precuneus fell to subnormal levels by the final time point. These findings suggest that abnormal PDRP activity antecedes the appearance of motor signs by approximately 2 years. The timing and laterality of symptom onset relates to focal asymmetric metabolic changes at the putamenal node of this network."}
{"id": "20083042", "title": "Hypothetical model of dynamic biomarkers of the Alzheimer's pathological cascade.", "content": "Hypothetical model of dynamic biomarkers of the Alzheimer's pathological cascade. Currently available evidence strongly supports the position that the initiating event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is related to abnormal processing of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide, ultimately leading to formation of Abeta plaques in the brain. This process occurs while individuals are still cognitively normal. Biomarkers of brain beta-amyloidosis are reductions in CSF Abeta(42) and increased amyloid PET tracer retention. After a lag period, which varies from patient to patient, neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration become the dominant pathological processes. Biomarkers of neuronal injury and neurodegeneration are increased CSF tau and structural MRI measures of cerebral atrophy. Neurodegeneration is accompanied by synaptic dysfunction, which is indicated by decreased fluorodeoxyglucose uptake on PET. We propose a model that relates disease stage to AD biomarkers in which Abeta biomarkers become abnormal first, before neurodegenerative biomarkers and cognitive symptoms, and neurodegenerative biomarkers become abnormal later, and correlate with clinical symptom severity."}
{"id": "20080878", "title": "Increased metabolic vulnerability in early-onset Alzheimer's disease is not related to amyloid burden.", "content": "Increased metabolic vulnerability in early-onset Alzheimer's disease is not related to amyloid burden. Patients with early age-of-onset Alzheimer's disease show more rapid progression, more generalized cognitive deficits and greater cortical atrophy and hypometabolism compared to late-onset patients at a similar disease stage. The biological mechanisms that underlie these differences are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to examine in vivo whether metabolic differences between early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer's disease are associated with differences in the distribution and burden of fibrillar amyloid-beta. Patients meeting criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease (National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's; Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria) were divided based on estimated age at first symptom (less than or greater than 65 years) into early-onset (n = 21, mean age-at-onset 55.2 +/- 5.9 years) and late-onset (n = 18, 72.0 +/- 4.7 years) groups matched for disease duration and severity. Patients underwent positron emission tomography with the amyloid-beta-ligand [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B and the glucose analogue [(18)F]-labelled fluorodeoxyglucose. A group of cognitively normal controls (n = 30, mean age 73.7 +/- 6.4) was studied for comparison. [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B images were analysed using Logan graphical analysis (cerebellar reference) and [(18)F]-labelled fluorodeoxyglucose images were normalized to mean activity in the pons. Group differences in tracer uptake were assessed on a voxel-wise basis using statistical parametric mapping, and by comparing mean values in regions of interest. To account for brain atrophy, analyses were repeated after applying partial volume correction to positron emission tomography data. Compared to normal controls, both early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer's disease patient groups showed increased [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B uptake throughout frontal, parietal and lateral temporal cortices and striatum on voxel-wise and region of interest comparisons (P < 0.05). However, there were no significant differences in regional or global [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B binding between early-onset and late-onset patients. In contrast, early-onset patients showed significantly lower glucose metabolism than late-onset patients in precuneus/posterior cingulate, lateral temporo-parietal and occipital corticies (voxel-wise and region of interest comparisons, P < 0.05). Similar results were found for [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B and [(18)F]-labelled fluorodeoxyglucose using atrophy-corrected data. Age-at-onset correlated positively with glucose metabolism in precuneus, lateral parietal and occipital regions of interest (controlling for age, education and Mini Mental State Exam, P < 0.05), while no correlations were found between age-at-onset and [(11)C]-labelled Pittsburgh compound-B binding. In summary, a comparable burden of fibrillar amyloid-beta was associated with greater posterior cortical hypometabolism in early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Our data are consistent with a model in which both early amyloid-beta accumulation and increased vulnerability to amyloid-beta pathology play critical roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease in young patients."}
{"id": "20074912", "title": "Metabolic alterations associated with impaired clock drawing in Lewy body dementia.", "content": "Metabolic alterations associated with impaired clock drawing in Lewy body dementia. The clock drawing test (CDT) is a widely used dementia screening instrument that assesses executive and visuospatial abilities; studies in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) suggest frontoposterior networks to be involved in clock drawing. Clock drawing errors are also often observed in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), but the functional neuroanatomical substrate of impaired clock drawing has not been firmly established in this disorder. The present study was designed to provide initial evidence for brain metabolic alterations associated with CDT performance in DLB. Twenty-one patients with DLB were enrolled. CDT ratings were correlated with the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) measured by (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) in the statistical parametric mapping software package SPM5, controlling for overall cognitive impairment as measured by the Mini-Mental-State Examination (MMSE) score. There was a significant negative association between test scores and rCMRglc in a left-hemispheric posterofrontal network including the temporoparietal and dorsal pre-motor cortices and the precuneus. The present study provides evidence for a direct association between frontoparietal dysfunction and impaired CDT performance in DLB. These findings also suggest that the CDT is an appropriate screening instrument for this disorder and that metabolic dysfunction, and therefore disease severity, is mirrored by performance on the test."}
{"id": "20069587", "title": "Executive deficits and regional brain metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Executive deficits and regional brain metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Executive deficits are common in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), contribute prominently to clinical disability, and may be associated with frontal lobe pathology. This study examined regional brain hypometabolism associated with executive dysfunction in patients with AD. Forty-one patients with probable AD underwent [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging at rest. Neuropsychological measures of executive control included the Conceptualization (Conc) and Initiation/Perseveration (I/P) subscales of the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) Similarities subtest, the Tower test, and the Ruff Figural Fluency test (Ruff). Voxel-based analyses were conducted using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2) to measure the correlation between regional cerebral metabolism and executive measures. Correlations independent of global cognitive impairment were identified by including Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score as a covariate in the model. Executive deficits, as measured by poor performances on the DRS I/P and Conc subscales, were associated with hypometabolism in the bilateral mid-dorsolateral frontal region. Activity in posterior cortical regions also contributed uniquely to some aspects of executive functioning, as lower resting metabolism in parietal or temporal cortex was correlated with poor performance on four of the five executive measures. After controlling for global cognitive score, there were significant extra-frontal correlations with hypometabolism in insula, occipital lobe, and temporal cortex. Some but not all executive deficits in AD are associated with neural activity in the dorsolateral frontal cortex. Activities in distributed neural systems that include parietal and temporal cortex also contribute to some executive abilities. The pathophysiology of executive dysfunction is complex and includes abnormalities not limited to a single region."}
{"id": "20065247", "title": "Beta-amyloid burden in the temporal neocortex is related to hippocampal atrophy in elderly subjects without dementia.", "content": "Beta-amyloid burden in the temporal neocortex is related to hippocampal atrophy in elderly subjects without dementia. To investigate whether global and regional beta-amyloid (Abeta) burden as measured with 11C Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) PET is associated with hippocampal atrophy characterized using MRI in healthy controls and patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) or Alzheimer disease (AD). Ninety-two elderly healthy controls, 32 subjects with aMCI, and 35 patients with AD were imaged using 11C-PIB PET and MRI. Hippocampal volume was measured and PIB standardized uptake value ratio was extracted after partial volume correction within 41 regions of interest. Global, regional, and voxel-based correlations between PIB and hippocampal volume were computed for each group. In healthy control participants with elevated neocortex PIB retention, significant correlation was found between PIB retention in the inferior temporal region and hippocampal volume using both region-based and voxel-based approaches. No correlation was found in any other group. The strong correlation between hippocampal atrophy and beta-amyloid (Abeta) burden in the Pittsburgh compound B-positive healthy control group suggests that Abeta deposition in the inferior temporal neocortex is related to hippocampal synaptic and neuronal degeneration."}
{"id": "20065135", "title": "APOE epsilon4 genotype and longitudinal changes in cerebral blood flow in normal aging.", "content": "APOE epsilon4 genotype and longitudinal changes in cerebral blood flow in normal aging. To study differences in longitudinal changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) between apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 carriers and noncarriers in nondemented older adults from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging using positron emission tomography in order to determine whether there are regionally specific longitudinal changes in rCBF in APOE epsilon4 carriers that might be related to its well-established role as a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer disease. Using oxygen 15 ([(15)O])-labeled water positron emission tomography and voxel-based analysis, we compared changes in rCBF over an 8-year period between 29 nondemented APOE epsilon4 carriers and 65 noncarriers older than 55 years. Serial neuropsychological data were collected for all participants. Widespread differences were observed in longitudinal change in rCBF between epsilon4 carriers and noncarriers. The predominant pattern was greater rCBF decline in epsilon4 carriers. These differences were observed in the frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices. The affected brain regions were those especially vulnerable to pathological changes in Alzheimer disease. Both epsilon4 carriers and noncarriers remained free of clinical diagnoses of dementia or mild cognitive impairment during the course of the study. Our findings suggest that APOE epsilon4-mediated risk for Alzheimer disease is associated with widespread decline in rCBF over time that precedes the onset of dementia. Accelerated rates of decline in brain function in APOE epsilon4 carriers may contribute to an increased risk for Alzheimer disease and a younger age at onset."}
{"id": "20061645", "title": "Positron emission tomography in at risk patients and in the progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in at risk patients and in the progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered a transitional state between the cognitive changes of normal aging and the earliest clinical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). An important goal is to find features that predict which MCI patients will later convert to AD. Identification of such features will be increasingly important when treatments slowing down the progression of AD become available enabling early intervention. Brain imaging might be one possible predictor of conversion to AD. Functional imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) has shown that either normal elderly people carrying apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele or people with MCI already show reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in those brain areas that are typically affected in AD. Investigations of different neurotransmitter systems might increase specificity and help in the differential diagnosis between dementing disorders. Dopamine transporter imaging to aid in the differential diagnosis between AD and dementia with Lewy bodies seems promising. Amyloid imaging is an example of \"pathology specific\" imaging that has great potential to enhance early detection of AD processes and to help in differential diagnosis. In the future, multi-tracer imaging or development of agents enabling imaging of other protein aggregations in neurodegenerative diseases could further help in the early and differential diagnostics and evaluation of novel treatments."}
{"id": "20061644", "title": "Neuroimaging through the course of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuroimaging through the course of Alzheimer's disease. This review uses an image-indexed framework for the full course of Alzheimer's disease (AD) to provide a perspective on recent neuroimaging findings in the literature. Modalities considered include morphometric, diffusion tensor, and functional magnetic resonance imaging, and resting/functional metabolic and amyloid-label positron emission tomography. The major focus is on the AD pre-states (normal but high AD risk and mild cognitive impairment), and transition from mild cognitive impairment to mild AD. Imaging results relevant to the conduct of future prevention and early intervention trials are emphasized."}
{"id": "20056559", "title": "Clinical experience with miglustat therapy in pediatric patients with Niemann-Pick disease type C: a case series.", "content": "Clinical experience with miglustat therapy in pediatric patients with Niemann-Pick disease type C: a case series. Niemann-Pick disease type C (NP-C) is an inherited neurovisceral lysosomal lipid storage disease characterized by progressive neurological deterioration. Different clinical forms have been defined based on patient age at onset: perinatal, early-infantile (EI), late-infantile (Li), juvenile and adult. We evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of miglustat in 16 symptomatic NP-C patients, with comparative reference to one neurologically asymptomatic, untreated patient. All patients were categorized according to age at neurological disease onset, and were assessed using a standardized clinical assessment protocol: disability and cognitive function scales, positron emission tomography (PET), and biochemical markers. PET and disability scale evaluations indicated that cerebral hypometabolism and neurological symptoms were stabilized during treatment in juvenile-onset NP-C patients. EI and Li NP-C patients, who had higher disease severity at baseline (treatment start), showed increased disability scores and progressive cerebral hypometabolism during follow up. Similarly, while cognitive scale scores remained relatively stable in patients with juvenile NP-C, cognition deteriorated in EI and Li patients. Plasma chitotriosidase (ChT) activity was lower in the juvenile NP-C subgroup than in EI and Li patients, and generally increased in patients who discontinued treatment. Plasma CCL18/PARC and ChT activities indicated greater macrophagic activity in EI and Li patients versus juveniles. Miglustat was generally well tolerated; frequent adverse events included diarrhea and flatulence, which were managed effectively by dietary modification and loperamide. Overall, miglustat appeared to stabilize neurological status in juvenile-onset NP-C patients, but therapeutic benefits appeared smaller among younger patients who were at a more advanced stage of disease at baseline."}
{"id": "20053378", "title": "B-spline-based stereotactical normalization of brain FDG PET scans in suspected neurodegenerative disease: impact on voxel-based statistical single-subject analysis.", "content": "B-spline-based stereotactical normalization of brain FDG PET scans in suspected neurodegenerative disease: impact on voxel-based statistical single-subject analysis. A b-spline-based method 'Lobster', originally designed as a general technique for non-linear image registration, was tailored for stereotactical normalization of brain FDG PET scans. Lobster was compared with the normalization methods of SPM2 and Neurostat with respect to the impact on the accuracy of voxel-based statistical analysis. (i) Computer simulation: Seven representative patterns of cortical hypometabolism served as artificial ground truth. They were inserted into 26 normal control scans with different simulated severity levels. After stereotactical normalization and voxel-based testing, statistical maps were compared voxel-by-voxel with the ground truth. This was done at different levels of statistical significance. There was a highly significant effect of the stereotactical normalization method on the area under the resulting ROC curve. Lobster showed the best average performance and was most stable with respect to variation of the severity level. (ii) Clinical evaluation: Statistical maps were obtained for the normal controls as well as patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD, n=44), Lewy-Body disease (LBD, 9), fronto-temporal dementia (FTD, 13), and cortico-basal dementia (CBD, 4). These maps were classified as normal, AD, LBD, FTD, or CBD by two experienced readers. The stereotactical normalization method had no significant effect on classification by of each of the experts, but it appeared to affect agreement between the experts. In conclusion, Lobster is appropriate for use in single-subject analysis of brain FDG PET scans in suspected dementia, both in early diagnosis (mild hypometabolism) and in differential diagnosis in advanced disease stages (moderate to severe hypometabolism). The computer simulation framework developed in the present study appears appropriate for quantitative evaluation of the impact of the different processing steps and their interaction on the performance of voxel-based single-subject analysis."}
{"id": "20050899", "title": "The FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating scale is a reliable tool for defining disease severity in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: evidence from a brain SPECT study.", "content": "The FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating scale is a reliable tool for defining disease severity in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: evidence from a brain SPECT study. Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by impairment in executive functions, behavioural disturbance and language deficit. Reliable scales of global impairment are under evaluation. A consortium of Mayo Clinic and University of California FTLD Centers has recently developed the FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale to assess FTLD severity. To evaluate whether FTLD-modified CDR scores correlate with the pattern and degree of brain SPECT hypoperfusion in patients with FTLD. Ninety-nine patients with FTLD entered the study. Patients underwent a clinical evaluation and a wide standardized neuropsychological assessment, including mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and FTLD-modified CDR. A brain SPECT perfusion imaging study was carried out in each patient. A linear correlation analysis between frontotemporal dementia-modified CDR or neuropsychological tests scores and perfusion data was performed. There was a significant relationship between higher FTLD-modified CDR score and lower global regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal and temporal lobes, bilaterally. No significant correlation between MMSE and brain frontotemporal hypoperfusion was found. The correlation between brain hypoperfusion pattern and neuropsychological test scores tapping different cognitive domains fitted with previously published data. The recently introduced FTLD-modified CDR scale correlates with the degree of frontotemporal hypoperfusion in patients with FTLD. This study confirms and further supports the usefulness of FTLD-modified CDR in future clinical trials to monitor disease progression."}
{"id": "19967597", "title": "Hanja (Ideogram) alexia and agraphia in patients with semantic dementia.", "content": "Hanja (Ideogram) alexia and agraphia in patients with semantic dementia. Posterior fusiform gyrus (BA 37) is responsible for Hanja (ideogram) alexia in stroke patients. Patients with semantic dementia (SD) have lesions in the basal temporal area. The close proximity in these two lesions and the fact that reading ideograms requires holistic processing as is necessary in recognition of objects, suggests a possibility that ideogram alexia/agraphia may occur in patients with SD. We established and carried out Hanja and Hangul (phonogram) reading/writing tasks on six SD patients and nine Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients as control to see if these two patient groups show dissociation in the two sets of tests. SPM analysis was performed on the SD patients' PET images to look for any dysfunctions in the posterior fusiform gyrus. The SD patients manifested Hanja alexia/agraphia whereas Hangul reading/writing ability was relatively preserved. There were group differences between SD and AD in the Hanja tasks but not in the Hangul tasks. The SPM analysis revealed no hypometabolism in the posterior fusiform gyrus, but only in the middle and the anterior part of the temporal gyrus. Dysfunction in the middle temporal gyrus (BA 21) may have disrupted the temporal lobe connections preventing the function of the posterior fusiform gyrus."}
{"id": "19949924", "title": "Targeted chemotherapy in drug-resistant tumors, noninvasive imaging of P-glycoprotein-mediated functional transport in cancer, and emerging role of Pgp in neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Targeted chemotherapy in drug-resistant tumors, noninvasive imaging of P-glycoprotein-mediated functional transport in cancer, and emerging role of Pgp in neurodegenerative diseases. Multidrug resistance (MDR) mediated by overexpression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) is one of the best characterized transporter-mediated barriers to successful chemotherapy in cancer patients and is also a rapidly emerging target in the progression of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Therefore, strategies capable of delivering chemotherapeutic agents into drug-resistant tumors and targeted radiopharmaceuticals acting as ultrasensitive molecular imaging probes for detecting functional Pgp expression in vivo could be expected to play a vital role in systemic biology as personalized medicine gains momentum in the twenty-first century. While targeted therapy could be expected to deliver optimal doses of chemotherapeutic drugs into the desired targets, the interrogation of Pgp-mediated transport activity in vivo via noninvasive imaging techniques (SPECT and PET) would be beneficial in stratification of patient populations likely to benefit from a given therapeutic treatment, thereby assisting management of drug resistance in cancer and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Both strategies could play a vital role in advancement of personalized treatments in cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. Via this tutorial, authors make an attempt in outlining these strategies and discuss their strengths and weaknesses."}
{"id": "19946781", "title": "Amyloid PET in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease with BF-227: comparison to FDG-PET.", "content": "Amyloid PET in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease with BF-227: comparison to FDG-PET. We recently developed a novel PET tracer, (11)C-labeled 2-(2-[2-dimethylaminothiazol-5-yl]ethenyl)-6-(2-[fluoro]ethoxy)benzoxazole ([(11)C]BF-227), and had success with in vivo detection of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains (Kudo et al. in J Nucl Med 8:553-561, 2007). We applied this tracer to subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD in order to elucidate the status of amyloid plaque deposition in MCI and compared the diagnostic performance of BF-227-PET with that of FDG-PET in AD cases. We studied 12 aged normal (AN) subjects, 15 MCIs and 15 ADs with PET using [(11)C]BF-227. PET images were obtained after administration of BF-227 and the regional standardized uptake value (SUV) and the ratio of regional to cerebellar SUV were calculated as an index of BF-227 binding. AD patients showed increased uptake of [(11)C]BF-227 in the neocortical areas and striatum as well as decreased glucose metabolism in temporoparietal, posterior cingulate and medial temporal areas. MCI subjects showed a significant increase in BF-227 uptake in the neocortical areas similar to AD, and the most significant difference of BF-227 retention was observed in the parietal lobe if its retentions for MCI were compared to those for AD and AN. On the other hand, glucose hypometabolism in MCI was confined to cingulate and medial temporal cortices. Neocortical BF-227 uptake negatively correlated with glucose metabolism. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis indicated higher specificity and sensitivity with BF-227-PET than those with FDG-PET for differential diagnosis between AD and normal control. We conclude that [(11)C]BF-227-PET has a possibility to be a useful technology for early detection of AD pathology and also even in the MCI stage."}
{"id": "19939228", "title": "MCI patients declining and not-declining at mid-term follow-up: FDG-PET findings.", "content": "MCI patients declining and not-declining at mid-term follow-up: FDG-PET findings. Patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) not converted to dementia at one to three years follow-up represent a heterogeneous group across studies, by including 'late converters' but also patients without any neurodegenerative disease. We tested the hypothesis that the combination of memory and brain metabolic assessment could identify subgroups of memory decliners (MCI/Decl) and non-decliners (MCI/noDecl) before a long follow-up time is available. From twenty-nine patients with amnestic MCI (aMCI) at baseline, three groups were identified at follow-up: 10 patients who converted to AD (MCI/AD); 10 patients either showing episodic memory worsening or reaching the floor effect on memory and declining in other key tests (MCI/Decl) and 9 patients showing no memory worsening or even improvement (MCI/noDecl). They were compared with a group of fourteen elderly controls (CTR) by means of basal FDG-PET voxel-based analysis (SPM2). Two hypometabolic clusters were found in MCI/AD versus CTR, including the bilateral posterior cingulate cortex, the left parietal precuneus and the left fusiform gyrus. MCI/AD showed also a large hypometabolic region, mainly including the left medium and superior temporal gyri and inferior parietal lobule, when compared to MCI/noDecl. The MCI/Decl showed a hypometabolic region in the left medial temporal lobe versus both CTR (hippocampus) and MCI/noDecl (parahippocampal gyrus and hippocampus). No significant difference was found in the comparison between CTR and MCI/noDecl, neither in the comparison between MCI/Decl and MCI/AD. Thus, non converter MCI patients comprised a sub-group of 'decliners' with AD-like metabolic and cognitive patterns, likely including 'late converters', and a sub-group lacking this pattern, with stable or improving memory function and a brain metabolic picture similar to that in healthy controls. Combining neuropsychological and FDG-PET information could be used for prognostic purposes in aMCI patients at medium-term follow-up."}
{"id": "19900556", "title": "Early Parkinson's disease: longitudinal changes in brain activity during sequence learning.", "content": "Early Parkinson's disease: longitudinal changes in brain activity during sequence learning. Impairment of sequence learning is common in Parkinson's disease (PD), but the time course of this cognitive abnormality is not known. We assessed longitudinal changes in sequence learning performance and associated task-related cerebral blood flow in 13 early stage PD patients who underwent H(2)(15)O PET at baseline and again 2 years later. Ten healthy volunteer subjects served as controls. A trend toward decline in learning performance (p=0.08) was evident over the 2 years of follow-up. During this interval, significant declines in learning-related activation were detected in parietal and temporo-occipital association areas and in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Learning-related activation in these regions was normal at baseline, but declined to subnormal levels (p<0.01) at 2 years. Significant hippocampal activation (p<0.005) was present in the subjects with high learning performance over time. The findings are consistent with a decline in learning-related neural activity in cortical areas with prominent Lewy body formation."}
{"id": "19861888", "title": "Cerebral metabolism in dogs assessed by (18)F-FDG PET: a pilot study to understand physiological changes in behavioral disorders in dogs.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism in dogs assessed by (18)F-FDG PET: a pilot study to understand physiological changes in behavioral disorders in dogs. The positron emission tomography (PET) imaging technique, which is utilized in human behavior and psychiatric disorder research, was performed on the brains of clinically normal mixed breed dogs, 3 hound-type (long floppy ears) mixed breed dogs and 3 non-hound retriever-type mixed breed dogs. Glucose metabolism was obtained with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), and quantitative analysis was performed by standardized uptake value (SUV) measurement. Magnetic resonance (MR) images were obtained in each dog, and these images were superimposed on PET images to identify anatomical locations. The glucose metabolism in each region of interest was compared between the three hound-type dogs and 3 non-hound-type dogs. The two anatomically different types of dog were compared to assess whether breed-typical behavioral tendencies (e.g., sniffing behavior in hound-type dogs, staring and retrieving in Labrador-type dogs) are reflected in baseline brain metabolic activity. There were no significant differences between the hound-type dogs and non-hound-type dogs in cerebral SUV values. These data might serve as normal canine cerebral metabolism data for FDG PET studies in dogs and form the basis for investigations into behavioral disorders in dogs such as compulsive disorder, anxiety disorders and cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "19840821", "title": "Methotrexate reduces hippocampal blood vessel density and activates microglia in rats but does not elevate central cytokine release.", "content": "Methotrexate reduces hippocampal blood vessel density and activates microglia in rats but does not elevate central cytokine release. Methotrexate is a cytostatic drug applied in adjuvant chemotherapy and associated with cognitive impairment in part of the cancer patients. In this paper we studied in rats whether a reduction in blood supply to the brain or neuroinflammation are possible mediators of this cognitive dysfunctionality. Methotrexate reduced hippocampal blood vessel density 1 week and 3 weeks after treatment as measured immunohistochemically with an endothelial barrier antigen. Since reduced brain vascularization may relate to lowered central glucose metabolism [(18)F]FDG PET was performed. Methotrexate reduced tracer uptake in the hippocampal region 1 week after treatment, which was not seen 3 weeks after treatment. Neuroinflammatory processes were explored via a number of methods: a microglia immunohistochemical marker was applied to hippocampal sections, [(11)C]PK11195 PET was performed, and cytokine levels in plasma and homogenized hippocampal tissue were measured. Methotrexate activated microglia in the hippocampus 1 week and 3 weeks after treatment. PET analysis, however, did not show an increase in hippocampal tracer uptake and the multiplex analysis of various cytokines showed that hippocampal cytokine levels were not increased after methotrexate administration. Methotrexate did reduce plasma cytokine levels indicating a suppression of peripheral immune functioning. Methotrexate reduces hippocampal blood vessel density, indicative of a reduced brain glucose metabolism, which may contribute to the cognitive impairment following methotrexate administration. Although methotrexate activates microglia activation in the hippocampus, no effects were seen in [(11)C]PK11195 tracer uptake or hippocampal cytokine levels. This suggests that the microglial activation in this study is not a marker for neuroinflammation."}
{"id": "19774437", "title": "SPECT and PET analysis of subthalamic stimulation in Parkinson's disease: analysis using a manual segmentation.", "content": "SPECT and PET analysis of subthalamic stimulation in Parkinson's disease: analysis using a manual segmentation. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become an effective target of deep-brain stimulation (DBS) in severely disabled patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Clinical studies have reported DBS-induced adverse effects on cognitive functions, mood, emotion and behavior. STN DBS seems to interfere with the limbic functions of the basal ganglia, but the limbic effects of STN DBS are controversial. We measured prospectively resting regional cerebral metabolism (rCMb) with 18-fluorodeoxyglucose and PET, and resting regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with HMPAO and SPECT in six patients with Parkinson's disease. We compared PET and SPECT 1 month before and 3 months after STN DBS. On cerebral MRI, 13 regions of interest (ROI) were manually delineated slice by slice in frontal and limbic lobes. We obtained mean rCBF and rCMb values for each ROI and the whole brain. We normalized rCBF and rCMB values to ones for the whole brain volume, which we compared before and following STN DBS. No significant difference emerged in the SPECT analysis. PET analysis revealed a significant decrease in rCMb following STN DBS in the superior frontal gyri and left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (p < 0.05). A non-significant decrease in rCMb in the left anterior cingulate gyrus appeared following STN DBS (p = 0.075). Our prospective SPECT and PET study revealed significantly decreased glucose metabolism of the two superior frontal gyri without any attendant perfusion changes following STN DBS. These results suggest that STN DBS may change medial prefrontal function and therefore the integration of limbic information, either by disrupting emotional processes within the STN, or by hampering the normal function of a limbic circuit."}
{"id": "19770055", "title": "Differential effects of global and cerebellar normalization on detection and differentiation of dementia in FDG-PET studies.", "content": "Differential effects of global and cerebellar normalization on detection and differentiation of dementia in FDG-PET studies. FDG-PET ([18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) is frequently used to improve the differential diagnosis of dementia. However, a fundamental methodological issue of the reference area for the intensity normalization procedure is still unsolved. Here, we systematically compared the two most commonly used normalization methods to the cerebral and to the cerebellar metabolic rate for glucose with regard to detection and differentiation of dementia syndromes. FDG-PET imaging was performed on 19 subjects with early Alzheimer's disease, 13 subjects with early frontotemporal lobar degeneration and 10 subjects complaining of memory impairment, which had not been confirmed by comprehensive clinical testing. Images were normalized to either the cerebral or the cerebellar metabolic rate for glucose. Differences in relative regional glucose metabolism were assessed by voxelwise comparison. Analysis using the two normalization procedures revealed remarkable differential effects. Whereas cerebellar normalization was superior in identifying dementia patients in comparison to control subjects, cerebral normalization showed better results for differential diagnosis between types of dementia. These effects were shown for both, Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Relative hypermetabolism in comparison to the control group was only detected in both kinds of dementia using global normalization. The results indicate that normalization has a decisive impact on diagnostic accuracy in dementia. While cerebellar normalization seems to be more sensitive for early diagnosis, cerebral global normalization might be superior for differential diagnostic purposes in dementia syndromes."}
{"id": "19725833", "title": "PET of brain prion protein amyloid in Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker disease.", "content": "PET of brain prion protein amyloid in Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker disease. In vivo amyloid PET imaging was carried out on six symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers of PRNP mutations associated with the Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker (GSS) disease, a rare familial neurodegenerative brain disorder demonstrating prion amyloid neuropathology, using 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile ([F-18]FDDNP). 2-Deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-d-glucose PET ([F-18]FDG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were also performed in each subject. Increased [F-18]FDDNP binding was detectable in cerebellum, neocortex and subcortical areas of all symptomatic gene carriers in close association with the experienced clinical symptoms. Parallel glucose metabolism ([F-18]FDG) reduction was observed in neocortex, basal ganglia and/or thalamus, which supports the close relationship between [F-18]FDDNP binding and neuronal dysfunction. Two asymptomatic gene carriers displayed no cortical [F-18]FDDNP binding, yet progressive [F-18]FDDNP retention in caudate nucleus and thalamus was seen at 1- and 2-year follow-up in the older asymptomatic subject. In vitro FDDNP labeling experiments on brain tissue specimens from deceased GSS subjects not participating in the in vivo studies indicated that in vivo accumulation of [F-18]FDDNP in subcortical structures, neocortices and cerebellum closely related to the distribution of prion protein pathology. These results demonstrate the feasibility of detecting prion protein accumulation in living patients with [F-18]FDDNP PET, and suggest an opportunity for its application to follow disease progression and monitor therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "19715400", "title": "Statistical parametric mapping and cluster counting analysis of [18F] FDG-PET imaging in traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Statistical parametric mapping and cluster counting analysis of [18F] FDG-PET imaging in traumatic brain injury. In this study we investigated regional cerebral glucose metabolism abnormalities of [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in traumatic brain injury (TBI). PET images of 81 TBI patients and 68 normal controls were acquired and a word list learning task was administered during the uptake period. The TBI group included 35 patients with positive structural imaging (CT or MRI) findings soon after injury, 40 patients with negative findings, and 6 cases without structural imaging. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis was applied with several levels of spatial smoothing. Cluster counting analysis was performed for each subject to identify abnormal clusters with contiguous voxel values that deviated by two standard deviations or more from the mean of the normal controls, and to count the number of clusters in 10 size categories. SPM maps demonstrated that the 81 patients had significantly lower FDG uptake than normal controls, widely across the cortex (including bilateral frontal and temporal regions), and in the thalamus. Cluster counting results indicated that TBI patients had a higher proportion of larger clusters than controls. These large low-FDG-uptake clusters of the TBI patients were closer to the brain edge than those of controls. These results suggest that deficits of cerebral metabolism in TBI are spread over multiple brain areas, that they are closer to the cortical surface than clusters in controls, and that group spatial patterns of abnormal cerebral metabolism may be similar in TBI patients with cognitive deficits with and without obvious acute abnormalities identified on structural imaging."}
{"id": "19703569", "title": "FDDNP binding using MR derived cortical surface maps.", "content": "FDDNP binding using MR derived cortical surface maps. To assess quantitatively the cortical pattern profile of regional FDDNP binding to beta-amyloid and neurofibrillary tangles on MR derived cortical maps, FDDNP PET images were corrected for movement and partial volume (PV), and optimized for kernel size. FDDNP DVR PET images from 23 subjects (7 with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 6 with mild cognitive impairment and 10 controls) were obtained from Logan analysis using cerebellum as reference. A hemispheric cortical surface model for each subject was extracted from the MRI. The same transformations were applied to the FDDNP DVR PET images to map them into the same space. The cortical map with PV correction was calculated as the ratio of the DVR cortical surface and that of the simulated map, created from the mask derived from MRI and smoothed to the PET resolution. Discriminant analysis was used to order the FDDNP DVR cortical surfaces based on subjects' disease state. Linear regression was used to assess the rate of change of DVR vs. MMSE for each hemispheric cortical surface point. The FDDNP DVR cortical surface corrected for movement and PV had less hemispheric asymmetry. Optimal kernel size was determined to be 9 mm. The corrected cortical surface map of FDDNP DVR showed clear spatial pattern that was consistent with the known pathological progression of AD. Correcting for movement, PV as well as optimizing kernel size provide sensitive statistical analysis of FDDNP distribution which confirms in the living brain known pathology patterns earlier observed with cognitive decline with brain specimens."}
{"id": "19693778", "title": "Construction of a (18)F-FDG PET normative database of Japanese healthy elderly subjects and its application to demented and mild cognitive impairment patients.", "content": "Construction of a (18)F-FDG PET normative database of Japanese healthy elderly subjects and its application to demented and mild cognitive impairment patients. To construct a (18)F-FDG PET normative database of Japanese healthy elderly subjects and to apply it to demented and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients. Seventy-seven Japanese normal volunteers from 41 to 84 years of age (36 males and 41 females) who underwent clinical, neuropsychological, and MRI examinations were selected. In these subjects, (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans were performed, (18)F-FDG PET images were analyzed using the 3D-SSP program, and a normative database for cerebral glucose metabolism was constructed. Then, (18)F-FDG PET images from 14 demented and MCI patients were evaluated based on the normative database. The 77 healthy elderly subjects were divided into three groups according to their age. In these subjects, the difference in glucose metabolism between males and females was minimal in contrast, glucose metabolism showed a weak reciprocal correlation with aging in several cerebral regions. The 3D-SSP images of 14 demented and MCI patients based on the age-matched (18)F-FDG PET normative database showed decreased patterns of glucose metabolism similar to those of previous studies on dementia diseases and MCI. An age-matched normative database can be applied to the evaluation of single subjects, and the application of a mixed database of males and females is viable. Normative databases are useful for detecting dementia diseases and their MCI."}
{"id": "19662411", "title": "Mapping brain morphological and functional conversion patterns in amnestic MCI: a voxel-based MRI and FDG-PET study.", "content": "Mapping brain morphological and functional conversion patterns in amnestic MCI: a voxel-based MRI and FDG-PET study. To reveal the morphological and functional substrates of memory impairment and conversion to Alzheimer disease (AD) from the stage of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). Brain MRI and FDG-PET were performed in 20 patients with aMCI and 12 controls at baseline. During a mean follow-up of about 2 years, 9 patients developed AD (converters), and 11 did not (nonconverters). All images were processed with SPM2. FDG-PET and segmented grey matter (GM) images were compared in: (1) converters versus controls, (2) nonconverters versus controls, and (3) converters versus nonconverters. As compared to controls, converters showed lower GM density in the left parahippocampal gyrus and both thalami, and hypometabolism in the precuneus, posterior cingulate and superior parietal lobule in the left hemisphere. Hypometabolism was found in nonconverters as compared to controls in the left precuneus and posterior cingulated gyrus. As compared to nonconverters, converters showed significant hypometabolism in the left middle and superior temporal gyri. The discordant topography between atrophy and hypometabolism reported in AD is already present at the aMCI stage. Posterior cingulate-precuneus hypometabolism seemed to be an early sign of memory deficit, whereas hypometabolism in the left temporal cortex marked the conversion to AD."}
{"id": "19631758", "title": "Higher serum total cholesterol levels in late middle age are associated with glucose hypometabolism in brain regions affected by Alzheimer's disease and normal aging.", "content": "Higher serum total cholesterol levels in late middle age are associated with glucose hypometabolism in brain regions affected by Alzheimer's disease and normal aging. Epidemiological studies suggest that higher midlife serum total cholesterol levels are associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) in the study of cognitively normal late middle-aged people, we demonstrated an association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 gene dose, the major genetic risk factor for late-onset AD, and lower measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in AD-affected brain regions, we proposed using PET as a pre-symptomatic endophenotype to evaluate other putative AD risk modifiers, and we then used it to support an aggregate cholesterol-related genetic risk score in the risk of AD. In the present study, we used PET to investigate the association between serum total cholesterol levels and cerebral metabolic rate for glucose metabolism (CMRgl) in 117 cognitively normal late middle-aged APOE epsilon4 homozygotes, heterozygotes and non-carriers. Higher serum total cholesterol levels were associated with lower CMRgl bilaterally in precuneus, parietotemporal and prefrontal regions previously found to be preferentially affected by AD, and in additional frontal regions previously found to be preferentially affected by normal aging. The associations were greater in APOE epsilon4 carriers than non-carriers in some of the AD-affected brain regions. We postulate that higher midlife serum total cholesterol levels accelerate brain processes associated with normal aging and conspire with other risk factors in the predisposition to AD. We propose using PET in proof-of-concept randomized controlled trials to rapidly evaluate the effects of midlife cholesterol-lowering treatments on the brain changes associated with normal aging and AD."}
{"id": "19568153", "title": "Preliminary evidence of validity of the revised criteria for Alzheimer disease diagnosis: report of 2 cases.", "content": "Preliminary evidence of validity of the revised criteria for Alzheimer disease diagnosis: report of 2 cases. Revised research criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease have been proposed to capture patients presenting with mild and not yet disabling symptoms, and currently classified as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We describe 2 very mild cases of MCI and their clinical outcome. The 2 cases were selected as they had unequivocal preservation of daily activities and normal global cognitive performance (Mini-Mental State Examination 29/30) and were positive to all 3 markers. Cognitive profile was assessed with an extensive neuropsychologic battery, medial temporal atrophy with hippocampal volumetry, hypometabolism on F-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography and voxel-based statistical parametric mapping analysis, and tau and amyloid beta-42 in the cerebrospinal fluid with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Both patients had a poor performance in 2 out of 11 neuropsychologic tests. Both had hippocampal volumes at or below the first percentile of the age-specific distribution, retrosplenial glucose hypometabolism, and inversion of tau/amyloid beta-42 cerebrospinal fluid ratio. Both showed progression of the cognitive deficit over the following 12 months. These 2 patients with progressive MCI and positivity to all Alzheimer markers predicated by the new research criteria provide preliminary support to their validity. Future work will characterize the marker profile of the vast majority of patients with incomplete marker positivity."}
{"id": "19021829", "title": "Neuroradiologic evidence of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction in idiopathic Basal Ganglia calcification: a case report.", "content": "Neuroradiologic evidence of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction in idiopathic Basal Ganglia calcification: a case report. Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC) is a neuropathological condition known to manifest as motor disturbance, cognitive impairment, and psychiatric symptoms. The pathophysiology of the psychiatric symptoms of IBGC, however, remains controversial. A previous biochemical study suggested that dopaminergic impairment is involved in IBGC. We thus hypothesized that dopaminergic dysfunction might be related with the psychiatric manifestations of IBGC. We used positron emission tomography to measure glucose metabolism and dopaminergic function in the basal ganglia of an IBGC patient with psychiatric symptoms. The results showed that widespread hypometabolism was evident in the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices while the decline in dopaminergic function was severe in the bilateral striatum. The functional decline of the dopamine system in the calcified area of the bilateral striatum and the disruption of cortico-subcortical circuits may contribute to clinical manifestations of IBGC in our patient."}
{"id": "19018949", "title": "Correlation between cognitive deficits and glucose hypometabolism in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Correlation between cognitive deficits and glucose hypometabolism in mild cognitive impairment. In patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), poor performances on delayed recall and executive function are risk factors of progression to dementia. The aim of the present study was to clarify neural correlates of these neuropsychological deficits. Thirty patients with amnestic MCI and 15 control subjects underwent neuropsychological tests including three-word delayed recall, visual delayed recall of Rey complex figure (RCF), and two-relational reasoning of Raven's colored progressive matrices (RCPM) with a (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-position emission tomography (PET) measurement of resting state. We evaluated a relationship between performance of neuropsychological tests and regional cerebral glucose metabolism using voxel-based analysis. Poor performance in three-word delayed recall was related to glucose hypometabolism in the right medial temporal, right prefrontal, and left superior parietal cortices. The deficit in visual delayed recall of RCF correlated positively with hypometabolism in the bilateral posterior cingulate. The impairment in two-relational reasoning was associated with hypometabolism in the right prefrontal cortex. The present findings suggest that hypometabolism in the right medial temporal cortex, right prefrontal cortex, left superior parietal cortex, and bilateral posterior cingulate reflects impairments in delayed recall while hypometabolism in the right prefrontal cortex mirrors deficits in executive function in MCI."}
{"id": "18789830", "title": "Evidence for an association between KIBRA and late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Evidence for an association between KIBRA and late-onset Alzheimer's disease. We recently reported evidence for an association between the individual variation in normal human episodic memory and a common variant of the KIBRA gene, KIBRA rs17070145 (T-allele). Since memory impairment is a cardinal clinical feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we investigated the possibility of an association between the KIBRA gene and AD using data from neuronal gene expression, brain imaging studies, and genetic association tests. KIBRA was significantly over-expressed and three of its four known binding partners under-expressed in AD-affected hippocampal, posterior cingulate and temporal cortex regions (P<0.010, corrected) in a study of laser-capture microdissected neurons. Using positron emission tomography in a cohort of cognitively normal, late-middle-aged persons genotyped for KIBRA rs17070145, KIBRA T non-carriers exhibited lower glucose metabolism than did carriers in posterior cingulate and precuneus brain regions (P<0.001, uncorrected). Lastly, non-carriers of the KIBRA rs17070145 T-allele had increased risk of late-onset AD in an association study of 702 neuropathologically verified expired subjects (P=0.034; OR=1.29) and in a combined analysis of 1026 additional living and expired subjects (P=0.039; OR=1.26). Our findings suggest that KIBRA is associated with both individual variation in normal episodic memory and predisposition to AD."}
{"id": "20104059", "title": "Resting prefrontal hypometabolism and paralimbic hypermetabolism related to verbal recall deficits in euthymic older adults with bipolar disorder.", "content": "Resting prefrontal hypometabolism and paralimbic hypermetabolism related to verbal recall deficits in euthymic older adults with bipolar disorder. To evaluate deficits of delayed free recall in euthymic older patients with bipolar disorder and relate deficits to resting cerebral metabolism. Two group, between subjects. Outpatient. Participants included 16 older adult (mean age, 58.7 years; SD = 7.5) euthymic outpatients with bipolar disorder (10 Type I and 6 Type II) and 11 healthy comparison subjects (mean age, 58.3 years; SD = 5.2). All participants received resting positron emission tomography with (18)flurodeoxyglucose and, within 10 days, delayed free verbal recall testing with the California Verbal Learning Test II. Patients with bipolar disorder, relative to healthy comparison subjects, had significantly poorer delayed free verbal recall. In patients with bipolar disorder, relative to healthy comparison subjects, prefrontal hypometabolism (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and paralimbic hypermetabolism (hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, and superior temporal gyrus) was associated with recall deficits in patients with bipolar disorder. Prefrontal and limbic metabolism were inversely related. Our findings demonstrate an association between prefrontal hypometabolism and paralimbic hypermetabolism and verbal memory deficits in euthymic older patients with bipolar disorder. Verbal memory deficits may be a clinical consequence of corticolimbic dysregulation in bipolar disorder, even during euthymia. This suggests that such dysregulation and related deficits could be bipolar disorder traits."}
{"id": "20092161", "title": "Mind readings.", "content": "Mind readings."}
{"id": "20016455", "title": "Differences in hippocampal metabolism between amnestic and non-amnestic MCI subjects: automated FDG-PET image analysis.", "content": "Differences in hippocampal metabolism between amnestic and non-amnestic MCI subjects: automated FDG-PET image analysis. The aim of this study was to assess whether 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography differentiates amnestic (aMCI) from single-non-amnestic mild cognitive impairment (snaMCI) with executive dysfunction. Sixteen aMCI subjects (62% females, age 75+/-8 years) and 14 snaMCI subjects (71% females, age 74+/-6 years) underwent [18F]FDG-PET and clinical follow-up. Comparisons between MCI subgroups and with seven cognitively normal elderly subjects were performed using SPM2. At baseline aMCI and snaMCI exhibited a similar pattern of hypometabolism, mostly in the posterior cingulate gyrus, as compared with controls. In the comparison between the MCI subtypes, the aMCI subjects showed reduced metabolism in the medial temporal lobes (MTL) (hippocampus, fusiform gyrus and amygdala). At follow-up 12 aMCI developed Alzheimer's disease (AD), while snaMCI had a heterogeneous course, including five subjects who developed Lewy body dementia. The patterns of altered brain metabolism in aMCI and snaMCI subjects compared to controls are similar and do not provide evidence for making clinical distinctions between them. Comparison between the two MCI subtypes showed MTL hypometabolism in aMCI subjects, possibly reflecting the fact that most had prodromal AD."}
{"id": "20008650", "title": "Pittsburgh compound B imaging and prediction of progression from cognitive normality to symptomatic Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Pittsburgh compound B imaging and prediction of progression from cognitive normality to symptomatic Alzheimer disease. To determine whether preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD), as detected by the amyloid-imaging agent Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) in cognitively normal older adults, is associated with risk of symptomatic AD. A longitudinal cohort study of cognitively normal older adults assessed with positron emission tomography (PET) to determine the mean cortical binding potential for PiB and followed up with annual clinical and cognitive assessments for progression to very mild dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). The Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Washington University, St Louis, Missouri. One hundred fifty-nine participants with a mean age of 71.5 years with a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) of 0 on a PET PiB scan at baseline. Progression from CDR 0 to CDR 0.5 status (very mild dementia). Twenty-three participants progressed to CDR 0.5 at follow-up assessment (range, 1-5 assessments after PET PiB). Of these, 9 also were diagnosed with DAT. Higher mean cortical binding potential values for PiB (hazard ratio, 4.85; 95% confidence interval, 1.22-19.01; P = .02) and age (hazard ratio, 1.14; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-1.28; P = .03) predicted progression to CDR 0.5 DAT. The CDR 0.5 DAT group showed decline in 3 cognitive domains (episodic memory, semantic memory, and visuospatial performance) and had volume loss in the parahippocampal gyrus (includes entorhinal cortex) compared with individuals who remained at CDR 0. Preclinical AD as detected by PET PiB is not benign, as it is associated with progression to symptomatic AD."}
{"id": "19964722", "title": "An integrated multimodality MR brain imaging study: gray matter tissue loss mediates the association between cerebral hypoperfusion and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "An integrated multimodality MR brain imaging study: gray matter tissue loss mediates the association between cerebral hypoperfusion and Alzheimer's disease. Multimodality MR image processing and analysis aims to determine to what extent information from various imaging modalities is redundant or complementary and how changes in various regions of the brain, detected by various modalities, interact with each other to produce cognitive and functional changes. Here, we presented a multimodality image processing framework to integrate unique and complementary observations on anatomical and physiological brain changes measured by structural and perfusion MR imaging modalities. A unique aspect to this study is that we performed a test on mediation hypothesis that requires a model based on measurements from both MR imaging modalities. Our findings from these integrated multi-modality analysis were congruent with previously published results on neuropathology of AD patients and supplied a comprehensive explanation on the integration between structural atrophy and physiological deterioration due to AD."}
{"id": "19940172", "title": "Basal cerebral metabolism may modulate the cognitive effects of Abeta in mild cognitive impairment: an example of brain reserve.", "content": "Basal cerebral metabolism may modulate the cognitive effects of Abeta in mild cognitive impairment: an example of brain reserve. Inverse correlations between amyloid-beta (Abeta) load measured by Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) positron emission tomography (PET) and cerebral metabolism using [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, suggest local Abeta-induced metabolic insults. However, this relationship has not been well studied in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or amyloid-positive controls. Here, we explored associations of Abeta deposition with metabolism via both region-of-interest-based and voxel-based analyses in amyloid-positive control subjects and patients with MCI or AD. Metabolism in parietal and precuneus cortices of AD patients was negatively correlated with PiB retention locally, and more distantly with PiB retention in frontal cortex. In amyloid-positive controls, no clear patterns in correlations were observed. In MCI patients, there were essentially no significant, negative correlations, but there were frequent significant positive correlations between metabolism and PiB retention. Metabolism in anterior cingulate showed positive correlations with PiB in most brain areas in MCI, and metabolism and PiB retention were positively correlated locally in precuneus/parietal cortex. However, there was no significant increase in metabolism in MCI compared to age-matched controls, negating the possibility that Abeta deposition directly caused reactive hypermetabolism. This suggests that, in MCI, higher basal metabolism could either be exacerbating Abeta deposition or increasing the level of Abeta necessary for cognitive impairment sufficient for the clinical diagnosis of AD. Only after extensive Abeta deposition has been present for longer periods of time does Abeta become the driving force for decreased metabolism in clinical AD and, only in more vulnerable brain regions such as parietal and precuneus cortices."}
{"id": "19938684", "title": "[Brain functional imaging of frontotemporal lobar degeneration].", "content": "[Brain functional imaging of frontotemporal lobar degeneration]. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is one of the common diseases causing dementia by including degenerative changes within the brain. The clinical subtypes of FTLD comprise frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), and semantic dementia (SD). In this review, the role of the brain functional imaging on diagnosing of FTLD is described. Regionally distinct patterns of hypoperfusion on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) are helpful in differentiation of FTLD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The recently developed techniques show great promise in detecting specific neuropathological changes in dementia such as amyloid and tau pathology."}
{"id": "19924379", "title": "Donepezil- and scopolamine-induced rCMRglu changes assessed by PET in conscious rhesus monkeys.", "content": "Donepezil- and scopolamine-induced rCMRglu changes assessed by PET in conscious rhesus monkeys. [(18)F]Fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) is a useful tool for measuring the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglu), which is an index of neuronal activity. Donepezil, an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor (AChEI), has been recommended as a treatment option for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We aimed to characterize the effects of donepezil on rCMRglu using FDG-PET in non-human primates. We investigated the effects of administration of donepezil (500 microg/kg, i.m.), the non-selective muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist scopolamine (30 microg/kg, i.m.), and the coadministration of both drugs on the rCMRglu of conscious young rhesus monkeys. Donepezil increased the rCMRglu in all regions of interest except in the thalamus. Scopolamine treatment also increased the rCMRglu in all regions of interest except the cerebellum and thalamus. However, these effects disappeared with coadministration of the drugs. This PET study showed that administration of donepezil or scopolamine alone increased the rCMRglu in conscious rhesus monkeys. We also found that the donepezil-induced increase was abolished by simultaneous administration of scopolamine, suggesting that muscarinic ACh receptor function plays an important role in the effect of donepezil."}
{"id": "19858081", "title": "Posterior cingulate hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: what is the contribution of local atrophy versus disconnection?", "content": "Posterior cingulate hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: what is the contribution of local atrophy versus disconnection?"}
{"id": "19847051", "title": "Applications of neuroimaging to disease-modification trials in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Applications of neuroimaging to disease-modification trials in Alzheimer's disease. Critical to development of new therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the ability to detect clinical or pathological change over time. Clinical outcome measures typically used in therapeutic trials have unfortunately proven to be relatively variable and somewhat insensitive to change in this slowly progressive disease. For this reason, development of surrogate biomarkers that identify significant disease-associated brain changes are necessary to expedite treatment development in AD. Since AD pathology is present in the brain many years prior to clinical manifestation, ideally we want to develop biomarkers of disease that identify abnormal brain structure or function even prior to cognitive decline. Magnetic resonance imaging, fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, new amyloid imaging techniques, and spinal fluid markers of AD all have great potential to provide surrogate endpoint measures for AD pathology. The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (ADNI) was developed for the distinct purpose of evaluating surrogate biomarkers for drug development in AD. Recent evidence from ADNI demonstrates that imaging may provide more sensitive, and earlier, measures of disease progression than traditional clinical measures for powering clinical drug trials in Alzheimer's disease. This review discusses recently presented data from the ADNI dataset, and the importance of imaging in the future of drug development in AD."}
{"id": "19847047", "title": "Functional MRI assessment of task-induced deactivation of the default mode network in Alzheimer's disease and at-risk older individuals.", "content": "Functional MRI assessment of task-induced deactivation of the default mode network in Alzheimer's disease and at-risk older individuals. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in old age, and is characterized by prominent impairment of episodic memory. Recent functional imaging studies in AD have demonstrated alterations in a distributed network of brain regions supporting memory function, including regions of the default mode network. Previous positron emission tomography studies of older individuals at risk for AD have revealed hypometabolism of association cortical regions similar to the metabolic abnormalities seen in AD patients. In recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies of AD, corresponding brain default mode regions have also been found to demonstrate an abnormal fMRI task-induced deactivation response pattern. That is, the relative decreases in fMRI signal normally observed in the default mode regions in healthy subjects performing a cognitive task are not seen in AD patients, or may even be reversed to a paradoxical activation response. Our recent studies have revealed alterations in the pattern of deactivation also in elderly individuals at risk for AD by virtue of their APOE e4 genotype, or evidence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In agreement with recent reports from other groups, these studies demonstrate that the pattern of fMRI task-induced deactivation is progressively disrupted along the continuum from normal aging to MCI and to clinical AD and more impaired in e4 carriers compared to non-carriers. These findings will be discussed in the context of current literature regarding functional imaging of the default network in AD and at-risk populations."}
{"id": "19836618", "title": "A possible role of atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for dementia.", "content": "A possible role of atrial fibrillation as a risk factor for dementia. Atrial fibrillation (AF), which is a very common disease among the elderly, is already well known as a risk factor for arterial thromboembolism and stroke. The attention of medical research is now focused on establishing a possible role of AF in the development of cognitive impairment in order to include this arrhythmia among risk factors for dementia. The aim of this work was to investigate the relationship between AF and various types of dementia, such as vascular dementia (VaD), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mixed dementia (MD). The study consisted of 71 VaD, AD or MD patients, 31 males and 40 females. The sample has been divided in 2 groups according to the sex, and these two groups have been analyzed separately. In females, a statistically significant association was found between mini mental state examination (MMSE) and clinical dementia rating (CDR) scores and AF occurrence (r=-0.32; p<0.05; r=0.33; p<0.05). On the contrary, no significant linear correlation was found between AF and a lower activities if daily living (ADL) and instrumental activities if daily living (IADL) scores. In males, AF/MMSE, AF/CDR, AF/ADL and AF/IADL variables have not been found to be linearly related to each other. Unexpectedly, AF turned to be associated to AD more often than to VAD, becoming a possible risk factor for this neurodegenerative disease. Our results are supported by many studies in literature attributing a basic role of brain hypoperfusion in sporadic AD patho-genesis. More and more scientific data suggest that the already well known risk factors for AD could be considered just the top of an iceberg, providing powerful arguments for impaired cerebral perfusion as the primary trigger in the development of this disease. Moreover, the mildly favorable treatment response in patients with AD to therapy that improves cerebral blood flow is a consistent finding; the same cannot be said of antiamyloid treatments. This opens new possibilities to find an effective way to treat this dramatic pathology."}
{"id": "19833956", "title": "Alzheimer's biomarker initiative hits its stride.", "content": "Alzheimer's biomarker initiative hits its stride."}
{"id": "19819300", "title": "Neural correlates of delayed episodic memory in patients with mild cognitive impairment--a FDG PET study.", "content": "Neural correlates of delayed episodic memory in patients with mild cognitive impairment--a FDG PET study. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is characterized by cognitive deficits which do not yet reach the threshold of dementia but represent a putative preclinical state of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Little is known about the neural correlates of delayed episodic memory which is among the earliest signs of cognitive decline in patients at risk of developing AD. We performed resting state positron emission tomography (PET) with (18)Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in patients with MCI, and hypothesized a correlation between delayed episodic memory performance and frontal glucose metabolism since the latter is relatively spared in the preclinical phase of the disease. 43 patients (age: 69.7+/-7.9 years; 24 male, 19 female) with MCI were investigated by FDG PET. Significant positive correlations with delayed episodic memory performance were calculated by statistical parametric mapping. To our knowledge the present study is the first to demonstrate by FDG PET the neural correlates of delayed episodic memory in patients with MCI. Our study revealed a pattern of cerebral glucose metabolism including bifrontal regions which may contribute to the delayed episodic memory performance of patients with MCI. Since not all patients with MCI will further deteriorate, AD specific mechanism may not be concluded from the present study but warrant longitudinal investigations."}
{"id": "19783409", "title": "Functional brain imaging in 14 patients with dissociative amnesia reveals right inferolateral prefrontal hypometabolism.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in 14 patients with dissociative amnesia reveals right inferolateral prefrontal hypometabolism. Dissociative amnesia is a condition usually characterized by severely impaired retrograde memory functioning in the absence of structural brain damage. Recent case studies nevertheless found functional brain changes in patients suffering from autobiographical-episodic memory loss in the cause of dissociative amnesia. Functional changes were demonstrated in both resting state and memory retrieval conditions. In addition, some but not all cases also showed other neuropsychological impairments beyond retrograde memory deficits. However, there is no group study available that examined potential functional brain abnormalities and accompanying neuropsychological deteriorations in larger samples of patients with dissociative retrograde amnesia. We report functional imaging and neuropsychological data acquired in 14 patients with dissociative amnesia following stressful or traumatic events. All patients suffered from autobiographical memory loss. In addition, approximately half of the patients had deficits in anterograde memory and executive functioning. Accompanying functional brain changes were measured by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). Regional glucose utilization of the patients was compared with that of 19 healthy subjects, matched for age and gender. We found significantly decreased glucose utilization in the right inferolateral prefrontal cortex in the patients. Hypometabolism in this brain region, known to be involved in retrieval of autobiographical memories and self-referential processing, may be a functional brain correlate of dissociative amnesia."}
{"id": "19779798", "title": "Progressive necrotic encephalopathy following tacrolimus therapy for liver transplantation.", "content": "Progressive necrotic encephalopathy following tacrolimus therapy for liver transplantation. Previously described neurologic damage induced by immunosuppressive treatments includes transient or reversible central nervous system involvement. We describe a 57-year-old man who underwent liver transplantation and was started on immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus (FK506). Six months later, he started complaining of a progressive motor and sensory impairment of the left side, together with cognitive impairment. Brain MRI showed an enlarging lesion of the white matter with peripheral contrast enhancement. PET study indicated severe hypometabolism in the right hemisphere and spectroscopic MRI showed a peak of choline and relative reduction of other metabolites. Findings of CSF examinations and cultures, serology, and molecular techniques were normal. Tacrolimus treatment was stopped. A cerebral biopsy of the lesion showed a sub acute necrotizing process. In the following months, cognitive status of the patient tended to improve although he remained hemiplegic, while serial MRI confirmed the tendency to the recovery of the lesion that was still present 1 year after. The present observation describes a progressive encephalopathy associated with immune suppression with an unusual feature and permanent brain damage."}
{"id": "19777328", "title": "Oxidatively modified, mitochondria-relevant brain proteins in subjects with Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Oxidatively modified, mitochondria-relevant brain proteins in subjects with Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment. Alzheimer disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder, characterized histopathologically by the presence of senile plaques (SP), neurofibrillary tangles and synapse loss in selected brain regions. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies of glucose metabolism revealed decreased energetics in brain of subjects with AD and arguably its earliest form, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and this decrease correlated with brain structural studies using MRI. The main component of senile plaques is amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), a 40-42 amino acid peptide that as oligomers is capable of inducing oxidative stress under both in vitro and in vivo conditions and is neurotoxic. In the mitochondria isolated from AD brain, Abeta oligomers that correlated with the reported increased oxidative stress markers in AD have been reported. The markers of oxidative stress have been localized in the brain regions of AD and MCI that show pathological hallmarks of this disease, suggesting the possible role of Abeta in the initiation of the free-radical mediated process and consequently to the build up oxidative stress and AD pathogenesis. Using redox proteomics our laboratory found a number of oxidatively modified brain proteins that are directly in or are associated with the mitochondrial proteome, consistent with a possible involvement of the mitochondrial targeted oxidatively modified proteins in AD progression or pathogenesis. The precise mechanistic link between mitochondrial oxidative damage and role of oligomeric Abeta has not been explicated. In this review, we discuss the role of the oxidation of mitochondria-relevant brain proteins to the pathogenesis and progression of AD."}
{"id": "19765835", "title": "Metabolic brain networks in neurodegenerative disorders: a functional imaging approach.", "content": "Metabolic brain networks in neurodegenerative disorders: a functional imaging approach. Network analysis of functional brain imaging data is an innovative approach to study circuit abnormalities in neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's disease, spatial covariance analysis of resting-state metabolic images has identified specific regional patterns associated with motor and cognitive symptoms. With functional imaging, these metabolic networks have recently been used to measure system-related progression and to evaluate novel treatment strategies. Network analysis is also being used to characterize specific functional biomarkers for Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. These networks have been particularly helpful in uncovering compensatory mechanisms in genetically at-risk individuals. Ongoing developments in network applications are likely to enhance the role of functional imaging in the investigation of neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "19759102", "title": "The 18F-FDG PET cingulate island sign and comparison to 123I-beta-CIT SPECT for diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "The 18F-FDG PET cingulate island sign and comparison to 123I-beta-CIT SPECT for diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Neuroimaging is increasingly used to supplement the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) by showing reduced occipital metabolism and perfusion and reduced striatal dopaminergic innervation. We aimed to optimize the interpretation of (18)F-FDG PET images for differentiating DLB from Alzheimer disease (AD) and to compare the results with dopamine transporter imaging using (123)I-beta-carbomethoxy-3ss-(4-iodophenyl)tropane ((123)I-beta-CIT) SPECT. Fourteen subjects with a clinical diagnosis of DLB and 10 with AD underwent both (18)F-FDG PET and (123)I-beta-CIT SPECT. Four DLB and 1 AD diagnoses were subsequently confirmed at autopsy. Diagnostic accuracy was calculated for visual interpretation by 3 readers of standard 3-plane and stereotactic surface projection (18)F-FDG PET images, receiver-operating-characteristic analysis of regional (18)F-FDG uptake, and a cutoff value for the striatal-to-occipital binding ratio of beta-CIT defined by receiver-operating-characteristic analysis. Visual interpretation of 3-plane (18)F-FDG PET images had a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 93% for DLB, slightly higher than the results with the stereotactic surface projection images. Regionally, hypometabolism in the lateral occipital cortex had the highest sensitivity (88%), but relative preservation of the mid or posterior cingulate gyrus (cingulate island sign) had the highest specificity (100%). Region-of-interest analysis revealed that occipital hypometabolism and relative preservation of the posterior cingulate both had a sensitivity of 77% and specificity of 80%. beta-CIT achieved 100% accuracy and greater effect size than did (18)F-FDG PET (Cohen d = 4.1 vs. 1.9). Both (18)F-FDG PET and (123)I-beta-CIT SPECT appear useful for the diagnosis of DLB, although the latter provides more robust results. The cingulate island sign may enhance the specificity of (18)F-FDG PET."}
{"id": "19726751", "title": "Follow-up of [11C]PIB uptake and brain volume in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls.", "content": "Follow-up of [11C]PIB uptake and brain volume in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls. In Alzheimer disease (AD), the accumulation pattern of beta-amyloid over time and its relationship with dementia severity are unclear. We investigated the brain uptake of the amyloid ligand (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B ([(11)C]PIB) and volumetric brain changes over a 2-year follow-up in patients with AD and in aged healthy controls. Fourteen patients with AD (mean age 72 years, SD 6.6) and 13 healthy controls (mean age 68 years, SD 5.4) were examined at baseline and after 2 years (patients with AD: mean 2.0 years, SD 0.2; controls: mean 2.1 years, SD 0.6) with [(11)C]PIB PET, MRI, and neuropsychological assessments. [(11)C]PIB uptake was analyzed with a voxel-based statistical method (SPM), and quantitative data were obtained with automated region-of-interest analysis. MRI data were analyzed with voxel-wise tensor-based morphometry. The [(11)C]PIB uptake of the patients with AD did not increase significantly during follow-up when compared with that of the controls. MRI showed progressive brain volume change in the patients with AD, e.g., in the hippocampal region, temporal cortex, and precuneus (p < 0.05). The mean Mini-Mental State Examination score of the patients with AD declined from 24.3 (SD 3.1) at baseline to 21.6 (SD 3.9) at follow-up (p = 0.009). Cognitive decline was also evident in other neuropsychological test results. Baseline neocortical [(11)C]PIB uptake ratios predicted subsequent volumetric brain changes in the controls (r = 0.725, p = 0.005). The results suggest no (or only little) increase in (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B ([(11)C]PIB) uptake during 2 years of Alzheimer disease progression, despite advancing brain atrophy and declining cognitive performance. Nevertheless, changes in [(11)C]PIB uptake during a longer follow-up cannot be excluded. High cortical [(11)C]PIB uptake may predict ongoing brain atrophy in cognitively normal individuals."}
{"id": "19689235", "title": "Treatment of mild cognitive impairment (MCI).", "content": "Treatment of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), an intermediate stage between normalcy and dementia, is characterized by fewer symptoms and less functional decline than dementia with less established biological disease processes and is an attractive target for both symptomatic and disease progression therapies. It is always desirable to treat symptoms or slow disease at a stage where the individual is still largely functional. Therapeutic studies in MCI have either been symptomatic, usually of shorter duration or of longer multiyear terms to demonstrate whether disease progression is delayed. Symptomatic agents tested to date include donepezil, SGS-742, and Piracetam. No symptomatic drug study has demonstrated clinically convincing differences between placebo and the study medication. Disease progression trials in MCI investigations of 2 to 4 year durations have included donepezil, vitamin E, rivastigmine, galantamine and rofecoxib. None have demonstrated convincing effects in delaying longer term disease progression or conversion to dementia. Problems that may have undermined these trials; i) disease heterogeneity, ii) slow early progression of the disease, and iii) insensitive cognitive and functional instruments. Future MCI studies may benefit from the use of biomarkers such as apolipoprotein E (APOE4), cerebrospinal fluid amyloid-beta1-42 and Tau levels and PIB positivity on brain PET scans as well as more sensitive neuropsychological test measures may also more accurately reflect clinical changes related to drug effects."}
{"id": "19664363", "title": "Update on amyloid imaging: from healthy aging to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Update on amyloid imaging: from healthy aging to Alzheimer's disease. We report on the current state of in vivo amyloid imaging. Although this technique is less than a decade old, a wealth of information is emerging as the initial clinical studies are being reported. Imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease has allowed quantitative exploration of the natural history of amyloid deposition and its relationship to neurodegeneration. Amyloid imaging also shows significant promise in the differential diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment or atypical dementias. However, amyloid detection may be of greatest utility in healthy elderly persons; consistent with prior autopsy studies, a significant proportion of asymptomatic individuals display increased levels of amyloid by in vivo imaging. Understanding the relationship between this pathology and future cognitive status has significant implications for the application of disease-modifying medications in the \"preclinical\" phase of disease. Given the considerable clinical experience compared with other tracers, this review focuses on the literature involving Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography."}
{"id": "19632119", "title": "Assessment of mental deterioration with the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI) and glucose hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease: the Osaki-Tajiri Project.", "content": "Assessment of mental deterioration with the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI) and glucose hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease: the Osaki-Tajiri Project. The Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI) is a screening test for dementia consisting of 9 domains. We investigated the relationships between CASI domain scores and cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) as shown by positron emission tomography. Fifteen patients with very mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 15 with mild AD were studied using the [(18)F]fluoro-deoxyglucose method. The 9 CASI domains were classified into four clusters (recent memory, frontal cortex cluster, posterior cortex cluster, and orientation). Using the region of interest method, the recent memory cluster was correlated with the bilateral hippocampal CMRglc, the frontal cortex cluster was correlated with the bilateral anterior and right inferior frontal CMRglc, the posterior cortex cluster was correlated with the bilateral temporo-parieto-occipital and occipital CMRglc, and the orientation cluster was correlated with the left anterior frontal CMRglc (Spearman's correlations). The use of statistical parametric mapping showed that most CASI domains were correlated with CMRglc of the left frontal lobe, the temporal lobe, and the angular gyrus. These findings show that the mental dysfunction assessed using CASI in AD patients has a neurobiological basis."}
{"id": "19617724", "title": "Positron emission tomography imaging in human immunodeficiency virus-1-associated neurocognitive disorders: an interesting case and a review of the positron emission tomography literature.", "content": "Positron emission tomography imaging in human immunodeficiency virus-1-associated neurocognitive disorders: an interesting case and a review of the positron emission tomography literature. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1-associated neurocognitive disorder can manifest with a variety of neurologic, cognitive, and behavioral impairments. We report a case of a 49-year-old non-HIV risk woman with an occult HIV infection who posed a diagnostic challenge as she suffered from a HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder with predominant motor symptoms mimicking upper motor neuron disease. Functional imaging using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography provided evidence of involvement of several cerebral regions which exhibited a distinct pattern of relative cerebral hypermetabolism (subcortical, brainstem, and cerebellar regions) and hypometabolism (sensorimotor cortex, mesiofrontal, and mesiotemporal areas) and functionally corresponded to the clinical symptoms. The results of the positron emission tomography scan are discussed in comparison with the current positron emission tomography literature and future perspectives are illustrated."}
{"id": "19617327", "title": "Altered brain serotonin transporter and associated glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Altered brain serotonin transporter and associated glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease. Whether preclinical depression is one of the pathophysiologic features of Alzheimer disease (AD) has been under debate. In vivo molecular imaging helps clarify this kind of issue. Here, we examined in vivo changes in the brain serotoninergic system and glucose metabolism by scanning early- to moderate-stage AD patients with and without depression using PET with a radiotracer for the serotonin transporter, (11)C-3-amino-4-(2-dimethylaminomethylphenylsulfanyl) benzonitrile (DASB), and a metabolic marker, (18)F-FDG. Fifteen AD patients (8 nondepressed and 7 depressed) and 10 healthy subjects participated. All participants underwent 3-dimensional MRI and quantitative (11)C-DASB PET measurements, followed by (18)F-FDG PET scans in the AD group. Region-of-interest analysis was used to examine changes in (11)C-DASB binding potential estimated quantitatively by the Logan plot method in the serotonergic projection region. In addition, statistical parametric mapping was used to examine whether glucose metabolism in any brain region correlated with levels of (11)C-DASB binding in the dense serotonergic projection region (striatum) in AD. Psychologic evaluation showed that general cognitive function (Mini-Mental State Examination) was similar between the 2 AD subgroups. Striatal (11)C-DASB binding was significantly lower in AD patients, irrespective of depression, than in healthy controls (P < 0.05, corrected), and (11)C-DASB binding in other dense projection areas decreased significantly in the depressive group, compared with the control group. The (11)C-DASB binding potential levels in the subcortical serotonergic projection region correlated negatively with depression score (Spearman correlation, P < 0.01) but not with dementia score. Statistical parametric mapping correlation analysis showed that glucose metabolism in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was positively associated with the level of striatal (11)C-DASB binding in AD. The significant reduction in (11)C-DASB binding in nondepressed AD patients suggests that presynaptic serotonergic function is altered before the development of psychiatric problems such as depression in AD. The depressive AD group showed greater and broader reductions in binding, suggesting that a greater loss of serotonergic function relates to more severe psychiatric symptoms in the disease. This serotonergic dysfunction may affect the activity of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a higher center of cognition and emotion in AD."}
{"id": "19598133", "title": "[The clinical relevance of FDG-PET imaging in severe traumatic brain injuries].", "content": "[The clinical relevance of FDG-PET imaging in severe traumatic brain injuries]. To evaluate the usefulness of positron emission tomography (PET) as a predictor of long-term disability after a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). Fifty-six patients who had sustained a severe TBI were assessed with a broad battery of cognitive and functional scales at baseline and 6-months after inclusion in a multidisciplinary rehabilitation program. All patients underwent a FDG-PET at baseline. A physician blind to clinical data performed a semiquantitative analysis (normal vs altered) of functional neuroimaging (PET), including four cortical and three subcortical areas. The total number of lesions (cortical, subcortical and total) was correlated to the intensity of the TBI and to clinical data at admission and at follow-up. All patients showed changes in cerebral metabolism, being the thalamus the area most frequently affected. The degree of cerebral hypometabolism showed a significant correlation with TBI severity, functional disability, global outcome and cognitive impairment not only at baseline but also at follow-up. According to our results, FDG-PET may be a useful tool when studying brain dysfunction after severe TBI. FDG-PET findings correlate with the TBI severity, and with the level of patients' disability, as well as with the degree of memory and intelligence impairment. However, clinical variables related to the severity of the TBI, still are the best predictors of functional outcome after TBI."}
{"id": "19587325", "title": "Conversion of amyloid positive and negative MCI to AD over 3 years: an 11C-PIB PET study.", "content": "Conversion of amyloid positive and negative MCI to AD over 3 years: an 11C-PIB PET study. Patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represent an important clinical group as they are at increased risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD). (11)C-PIB PET is an in vivo marker of brain amyloid load. To assess the rates of conversion of MCI to AD during a 3-year follow-up period and to compare levels of amyloid deposition between MCI converters and nonconverters. Thirty-one subjects with MCI with baseline (11)C-PIB PET, MRI, and neuropsychometry have been clinically followed up for 1 to 3 years (2.68 +/- 0.6 years). Raised cortical (11)C-PIB binding in subjects with MCI was detected with region of interest analysis and statistical parametric mapping. Seventeen of 31 (55%) subjects with MCI had increased (11)C-PIB retention at baseline and 14 of these 17 (82%) clinically converted to AD during follow-up. Only one of the 14 PIB-negative MCI cases converted to AD. Of the PIB-positive subjects with MCI, half (47%) converted to AD within 1 year of baseline PIB PET, these faster converters having higher tracer-retention values than slower converters in the anterior cingulate (p = 0.027) and frontal cortex (p = 0.031). Seven of 17 (41%) subjects with MCI with known APOE status were epsilon4 allele carriers, this genotype being associated with faster conversion rates in PIB-positive subjects with MCI (p = 0.035). PIB-positive subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are significantly more likely to convert to AD than PIB-negative patients, faster converters having higher PIB retention levels at baseline than slower converters. In vivo detection of amyloid deposition in MCI with PIB PET provides useful prognostic information."}
{"id": "19575014", "title": "Relationship between cerebral blood flow and later cognitive decline in hypertensive patients with cerebral small vessel disease.", "content": "Relationship between cerebral blood flow and later cognitive decline in hypertensive patients with cerebral small vessel disease. Vascular risk factors are thought to be important for dementia. However, there is little evidence for a prospective association between cerebral blood flow and the risk of cognitive decline. Twenty-seven cognitively intact hypertensive patients aged 55 years and older with lacunar infarction or white matter lesions in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) underwent positron emission tomography (PET) to measure cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral vascular reactivity (CVR). Cognitive function was assessed at baseline and 3 years later with the mini-mental state examination (MMSE). Patients whose MMSE score fell by more than three points were classified as having cognitive decline. Six patients showed cognitive decline. Baseline CBF in these patients was significantly lower than that of the 21 patients without cognitive decline (31.2+/-2.4 vs. 42.6+/-5.9 ml per 100 g min(-1), respectively; P<0.001). A moderate linear association was found between CBF and change in MMSE score over a 3-year period (r=0.59, P=0.001), not between CBF and baseline MMSE score. In contrast, no association between CVR and later cognitive decline was found. This study suggests that cerebral hypoperfusion is associated with later cognitive decline."}
{"id": "19568152", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is simulated by neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis complex is simulated by neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation. We describe a case of late onset neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) presenting as frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A male patient presented at age 66 with change of personality: disinhibition, emotional blunting, and socially inappropriate behavior, coupled with dysarthria, dystonia, and corticospinal tract involvement. Magnetic resonance imaging showed general cortical atrophy, iron deposits in the globus pallidus, and the \"eye of the tiger\" sign. Neuropsychologic performance was globally reduced, especially executive functions. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography showed hypometabolism predominantly in frontal and temporal areas. Repeated neurophysiologic examinations showed signs of chronic denervation. The patient was diagnosed with NBIA but fulfilled consensus criteria for FTD and had a clinical picture of ALS, without neurophysiologic confirmation. Our finding introduces NBIA as a possible cause of FTD and as a differential diagnosis of the FTD-ALS complex."}
{"id": "19562770", "title": "Expanding the clinical phenotype of SNCA duplication carriers.", "content": "Expanding the clinical phenotype of SNCA duplication carriers. SNCA duplication is a recognized cause of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). We aimed to explore the genetic and clinical variability in the disease manifestation. Molecular characterization was performed using real-time PCR, SNP arrays, and haplotype analysis. We further studied those patients who were found to harbor SNCA duplication with olfactory function tests, polysomnography, and PET. We identified four new families and one sporadic patient with SNCA duplication. Eleven symptomatic patients from these four families presented with parkinsonism, of which three subsequently developed dementia. The lifetime estimate of overall penetrance was 43.8%. FDG-PET study of symptomatic patients showed hypometabolism in the occipital lobe, whereas asymptomatic carriers of SNCA duplication demonstrated normal glucose metabolism. Symptomatic patients showed abnormal olfactory function and polysomnography and asymptomatic carriers showed normal results. The clinical features of SNCA duplication include parkinsonism with or without dementia. Asymptomatic carriers displayed normal test results with the eldest individual aged 79 years; thus, even a carrier of SNCA duplication may escape the development of PD. This difference in age-associated penetrance may be due to the genetic background or environmental exposures. Further studies of SNCA duplication carriers will help identify disease-modifiers and may open novel avenues for future treatment."}
{"id": "19560101", "title": "Markers of Alzheimer's disease in a population attending a memory clinic.", "content": "Markers of Alzheimer's disease in a population attending a memory clinic. New marker-based criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) were recently proposed. We describe their operational translation in 144 consecutive patients referred to our Memory Clinic. Visual ratings of hippocampal atrophy and of cortical glucose hypometabolism in magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography, and concentrations of total tau and Abeta1-42 in cerebrospinal fluid were assessed in 12 patients with subjective memory complaints (SMCs) (Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] score, 28.0 +/- 1.1 [mean +/- SD]), 37 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (MMSE, 25.1 +/- 3.6), 55 with AD (MMSE, 21.1 +/- 3.5), and 40 with non-AD dementia (MMSE, 21.6 +/- 5.5). The sensitivity for AD of each individual biomarker was higher (65% to 87%) than for MCI (18% to 50%). Each biomarker's specificity for SMC and non-AD dementias was good to moderate (83% and 53%). Positivity for at least one marker increased the probability 38 times of belonging to the AD group (P < 0.0001). The new diagnostic criteria can be operationalized in clinical routines, but longitudinal studies of MCI patients will need to assess the criteria's prognostic value."}
{"id": "19514068", "title": "Clinical phenotype and neuroimaging findings in a French family with hereditary ferritinopathy (FTL498-499InsTC).", "content": "Clinical phenotype and neuroimaging findings in a French family with hereditary ferritinopathy (FTL498-499InsTC). To describe a family with a hereditary ferritinopathy (HF) due to a mutation in the ferritin light chain gene (FTL498-499InsTC mutation). Case reports of the clinical features, MRI, (18)FDG PET, and pathological findings observed in this family with two patients described in more details. Postural tremor (phenotype-1) or cerebellar signs (phenotype-2) were the first neurological symptoms detected. Parkinsonian, cerebellar and pyramidal syndromes, abnormal involuntary movements, dementia were observed in both phenotypes at more advanced stages. Beside characteristics T2* hypointense signals suggestive of iron accumulation in the striatum, mesencephalon, and cerebellum, we detected more diffuse changes including cerebellar, cortical and subcortical atrophy, cortical iron deposition, and severe leukoencephalopathy. (18)FDG PET showed frontal and cerebellum hypometabolism with more severe frontal defect in patients with cognitive decline. Pathological examination showed ferritin and iron deposition in the liver, kidney, muscle, skin, and in the central nervous system. Members of this family affected by HF due to the FTL498-499InsTC mutation have a specific clinical presentation with initial postural tremor or cerebellar ataxia, followed by pyramidal and extrapyramidal motor syndromes and late severe subcortical dementia."}
{"id": "19506143", "title": "Occurrence of basal ganglia germ cell tumors without a mass.", "content": "Occurrence of basal ganglia germ cell tumors without a mass. To report a case series in which basal ganglia calcifications without mass effect proved to be germ cell tumors. Case series. Tertiary care hospital. Four patients. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, biopsy, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Recognition of clinical syndrome and radiological features. All patients had progressive hemiparesis, and 1 patient also had frontal lobe dementia. Imaging demonstrated progressive asymmetric signal abnormality with basal ganglia calcification and associated brainstem atrophy. Fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography showed hypometabolism in contrast to malignant glioma. Germ cell tumor should be considered in patients with an indolently progressive neurological course, particularly if basal ganglia calcification is present with or without enhancement, asymmetric brain atrophy, or a mass."}
{"id": "19491642", "title": "Positron emission tomography in diagnosis of visual variant Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in diagnosis of visual variant Alzheimer disease. A 65-year-old man with a 3-year history of difficulty seeing had normal ophthalmologic and neurologic examinations except for impaired visual spatial and perceptual function. Brain MRI failed to disclose any structural abnormalities, but positron emission tomography (PET) performed 2 weeks later showed prominent hypometabolism in the parieto-occipital regions bilaterally. These findings were considered consistent with the visual variant of Alzheimer disease (VVAD). Although the dissociation between normal structural and abnormal functional imaging has been reported before in VVAD, this patient is a reminder that PET may be useful to confirm the diagnosis before the disease becomes advanced."}
{"id": "19489069", "title": "Cortical hypometabolism assessed by a metabolic ratio in Parkinson's disease primarily reflects cognitive deterioration-[18F]FDG-PET.", "content": "Cortical hypometabolism assessed by a metabolic ratio in Parkinson's disease primarily reflects cognitive deterioration-[18F]FDG-PET. In Parkinson's disease patients with cognitive deterioration, regional cortical hypometabolism has been observed with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). Our aim was to develop a robust method to subsume the overall degree of metabolic deterioration in Parkinson's disease by means of a single index and to investigate which of the clinical features correlates best with hypometabolism. Twenty-two Parkinson's patients (10 demented) and seven controls underwent FDG-PET. A metabolic index (mean relative uptake in typically affected regions) was calculated for each patient and compared with scores for cognition [Minimental State Examination (MMSE)], motor performance [Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS III)\" and behavior (Neuropsychiatric Inventory). In stepwise linear regression analysis, MMSE (P < 0.001) score showed the only significant effect. Estimated sensitivity and specificity for DSM-IV diagnosis of dementia were high for the metabolic index (MI), with 91 and 100%. Taken together, the presented data indicate that cerebral hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease is primarily associated with cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "19487843", "title": "Integrated PET/CT in evaluating sarcomatous transformation in osteochondromas.", "content": "Integrated PET/CT in evaluating sarcomatous transformation in osteochondromas. To study the role of PET-CT in evaluating sarcomatous transformation in osteochondromas. This was a retrospective analysis of a prospective data base of 12 patients from 2005 to 2007 with a clinical diagnosis of an osteocartilaginous lesion who were referred for a FDG PET-CT study to evaluate for possible malignant transformation. Imaging was performed on a GE Discovery ST PET-CT system after intravenous injection of 370 MBq (10 mCi) of F-18 FDG. Seven patients with histopathological evidence of a sarcomatous transformation to grade II chondrosarcoma showed moderate to high FDG uptake (SUV 3.3-6.9), whereas 1 patient with a dedifferentiated chondrosarcoma showed a focus of very intense uptake (SUV 11.4). Four patients with histopathological and/or clinical or follow-up diagnosis of a benign osteocartilaginous lesion showed low grade FDG uptake (SUV 0.8-1.3). FDG uptake was also noted in an asymptomatic osteochondroma which on histopathology revealed a grade II chondrosarcoma. Whole body FDG PET-CT is an important adjunct to conventional morphologic imaging in evaluating suspected malignant transformation in osteochondromas. Increased glucose metabolism can help diagnose sarcomatous transformation at the suspected sites as well as detect early malignant change at clinically unsuspected sites. Moreover, its ability to detect a focus of dedifferentiation can be useful for prognostication and to plan adjuvant treatment. A small cohort limits statistically sound conclusions to be drawn from this study, however further prospective trials based on these findings can help explore the potential application of FDG PET-CT in this clinical condition."}
{"id": "19478666", "title": "Mapping brain beta-amyloid.", "content": "Mapping brain beta-amyloid. This article reviews recent developments in the field of amyloid imaging using PET, specifically the ability to quantify the amount and distribution of brain beta-amyloid, the protein that occupies a central position in leading theories of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Several imaging-disorder correlations place the technique itself on a stronger footing by showing good agreement between in-vivo and histological measures of beta-amyloid deposition. Correlations between beta-amyloid and other measures of dementia - cognition, brain atrophy, and glucose metabolism - appear to support a view that beta-amyloid triggers a host of downstream alterations that are closely related to dementia severity and progression. However, associations between PET measures of beta-amyloid and cognition are generally fairly weak. The implications for clinical use are still uncertain. It seems likely that amyloid imaging will be useful for differentiating dementias associated with beta-amyloid from those that are not, but the utility of this approach will depend on the availability of effective beta-amyloid-directed treatments. Similarly, amyloid imaging offers the potential for predicting which nondemented individuals will eventually develop Alzheimer's disease, although here again the measurement of downstream beta-amyloid effects may be important. The ability to quantify the onset and progression of beta-amyloid disorder in the brain offers the potential for investigating a host of questions concerning individual and neural vulnerability and the amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease itself. These findings will have important basic and clinical implications."}
{"id": "19477964", "title": "Longitudinal brain metabolic changes from amnestic mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Longitudinal brain metabolic changes from amnestic mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease. A sensitive marker for monitoring progression of early Alzheimer's disease would help to develop and test new therapeutic strategies. The present study is aimed at investigating brain metabolism changes over time, as a potential monitoring marker, in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment, according to their clinical outcome (converters or non-converters), and in relation to their cognitive decline. Seventeen amnestic mild cognitive impairment patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging and 18FDG-positron emission tomography scans both at inclusion and 18 months later. Baseline and follow-up positron emission tomography data were corrected for partial volume effects and spatially normalized using magnetic resonance imaging data, scaled to the vermis and compared using SPM2. 'PET-PAC' maps reflecting metabolic per cent annual changes were created for correlation analyses with cognitive decline. In the whole sample, the greatest metabolic decrease concerned the posterior cingulate-precuneus area. Converters had significantly greater metabolic decrease than non-converters in two ventro-medial prefrontal areas, the subgenual (BA25) and anterior cingulate (BA24/32). PET-PAC in BA25 and BA24/32 combined allowed complete between-group discrimination. BA25 PET-PAC significantly correlated with both cognitive decline and PET-PAC in the hippocampal region and temporal pole, while BA24/32 PET-PAC correlated with posterior cingulate PET-PAC. Finally, the metabolic change in BA8/9/10 was inversely related to that in BA25 and showed relative increase with cognitive decline, suggesting that compensatory processes may occur in this dorso-medial prefrontal region. The observed ventro-medial prefrontal disruption is likely to reflect disconnection from the hippocampus, both indirectly through the cingulum bundle and posterior cingulate cortex for BA24/32, and directly through the uncinate fasciculus for BA25. Altogether, our findings emphasize the potential of 18FDG-positron emission tomography for monitoring early Alzheimer's disease progression."}
{"id": "19474411", "title": "Mapping of brain acetylcholinesterase alterations in Lewy body disease by PET.", "content": "Mapping of brain acetylcholinesterase alterations in Lewy body disease by PET. To characterize brain cholinergic deficits in Parkinson disease (PD), PD with dementia (PDD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Participants included 18 patients with PD, 21 patients with PDD/DLB, and 26 healthy controls. The PD group consisted of nine patients with early PD, each with a disease duration of less than 3 years, five of whom were de novo PD patients, and nine patients with advanced PD, each with a disease duration greater than or equal to 3 years. The PDD/DLB group consisted of 10 patients with PDD and 11 patients with DLB. All subjects underwent PET scans with N-[11C]-methyl-4-piperidyl acetate to measure brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Brain AChE activity levels were estimated voxel-by-voxel in a three-compartment analysis using the arterial input function, and compared among our subject groups through both voxel-based analysis using the statistical parametric mapping software SPM5 and volume-of-interest analysis. Among patients with PD, AChE activity was significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex and especially in the medial occipital cortex (% reduction compared with the normal mean = -12%) (false discovery rate-corrected p value <0.01). Patients with PDD/DLB, however, had even lower AChE activity in the cerebral cortex (% reduction = -27%) (p < 0.01). There was no significant difference between early PD and advanced PD groups or between DLB and PDD groups in the amount by which regional AChE activity in the brain was reduced. Brain cholinergic dysfunction occurs in the cerebral cortex, especially in the medial occipital cortex. It begins in early Parkinson disease, and is more widespread and profound in both Parkinson disease with dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "19463961", "title": "Neural correlates of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: a systematic and quantitative meta-analysis involving 1351 patients.", "content": "Neural correlates of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: a systematic and quantitative meta-analysis involving 1351 patients. Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia. Its prodromal stage amnestic mild cognitive impairment is characterized by deficits of anterograde episodic memory. The development of standardized imaging inclusion criteria has to be regarded as a prerequisite for future diagnostic systems. Moreover, successful treatment requires isolating imaging markers predicting the disease. Accordingly, we conducted a systematic and quantitative meta-analysis to reveal the prototypical neural correlates of Alzheimer's disease and its prodromal stage. To prevent any a priori assumptions and enable a data-driven approach only studies applying quantitative automated whole brain analysis were included. Finally, 40 studies were identified involving 1351 patients and 1097 healthy control subjects reporting either atrophy or decreases in glucose utilization and perfusion. The currently most sophisticated and best-validated of coordinate-based voxel-wise meta-analyses was applied (anatomical likelihood estimates). The meta-analysis reveals that early Alzheimer's disease affects structurally the (trans-)entorhinal and hippocampal regions, functionally the inferior parietal lobules and precuneus. Results further may suggest that atrophy in the (trans-)entorhinal area/hippocampus and hypometabolism/hypoperfusion in the inferior parietal lobules predicts most reliably the progression from amnestic mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease, whereas changes in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus are unspecific. Fully developed Alzheimer's disease involved additionally a frontomedian-thalamic network. In conclusion, the meta-analysis characterizes the prototypical neural substrates of Alzheimer's disease and its prodromal stage amnestic mild cognitive impairment. By isolating predictive markers it enables successful treatment strategies in the future and contributes to standardized imaging inclusion criteria for Alzheimer's disease as suggested for future diagnostic systems."}
{"id": "19460543", "title": "Long-term evaluation of cognitive function and cerebral metabolism in liver transplanted patients.", "content": "Long-term evaluation of cognitive function and cerebral metabolism in liver transplanted patients. Patients with liver cirrhosis without overt hepatic encephalopathy (OHE) show alterations of cognitive function and metabolism which seem to not be fully reversible after liver transplantation (OLT), but the long-term outcomes have not be studied. Fourteen cirrhotic subjects including alcoholic (n = 4), viral (n = 4), mixed (n = 5), and cholestatic (n = 2) without OHE were evaluated for OLT as well as 8 age-matched normal controls. All subjects underwent cerebral positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose to quantify cerebral glucose metabolism and neuropsychological evaluation to test memory, intelligence, and cerebral frontal functions. Transplanted patients underwent repeat evaluations at 1 and 10 years after liver transplantation. Compared with the controls patients with liver cirrhosis showed significantly reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in all cerebral cortical and subcortical regions. This observation correlated with the presence of alterations in neuropsychological tests evaluating memory, frontal tasks, and visuospatial memory. Among 12 patients who were transplanted, 10 underwent repeat neuropsychological evaluation at 1 year; in addition 5 underwent PET). At 10 years the 7 living patients had repeat neuropsychological evaluation. One year after OLT, transplanted patients showed significant amelioration of cerebral glucose metabolism in all cerebral regions with significant improvements in neuropsychological tests, despite 20% of patients showing residual defects in frontal tasks. The cognitive function did not further improve at 10 years after OLT. Patients with liver cirrhosis show altered cerebral function and metabolism that revert after successful liver transplantation, but with residual mild deficits in cerebral frontal functions, which seem to not improve in the long term."}
{"id": "19454846", "title": "Fluoro-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography correlates of impaired activities of daily living in dementia with Lewy bodies: implications for cognitive reserve.", "content": "Fluoro-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography correlates of impaired activities of daily living in dementia with Lewy bodies: implications for cognitive reserve. 1) To investigate the neural substrate of impaired activities of daily living (ADL) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 2) to explore, in the context of cognitive reserve, if hypometabolism was more pronounced in well-educated patients at the same level of everyday impairment. Twenty-one patients with DLB underwent an extensive clinical evaluation including cerebral positron emission tomography with F-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose scanning. First, brain areas were identified, where ADL performance and glucose metabolism were significantly correlated, controlling for individual differences in cognitive and motor dysfunction. Second, it was tested if there was a significant negative association between metabolism and years of education in brain regions associated with ADL performance. Again, a correction for cognitive and motor impairment was deployed. There was a significant association between glucose hypometabolism and impaired ADL performance in an extensive brain cluster located in the right temporoparietal cortex. Furthermore, schooling and metabolic rate were inversely associated in the right Brodmann area 19, controlling for ADL performance. The study suggests that 1) certain brain metabolic alterations are specifically associated with the loss of everyday competence, even if differences in cognition and motor function are taken into consideration and 2) well-educated patients can offset more brain damage until reaching the same degree of ADL impairment as their less educated counterparts. These results extend the literature on cognitive reserve to a region-specific effect on ADL performance."}
{"id": "19449370", "title": "Cortical hypoperfusion in the B6.PS2APP mouse model for Alzheimer's disease: comprehensive phenotyping of vascular and tissular parameters by MRI.", "content": "Cortical hypoperfusion in the B6.PS2APP mouse model for Alzheimer's disease: comprehensive phenotyping of vascular and tissular parameters by MRI. Function and morphology of the cerebral vasculature were studied in the amyloid (Abeta) plaque-containing double-transgenic (TG) B6.PS2APP Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model with MRI at an age range of 10 to 17 months. Perfusion, blood volume, and average vessel geometry were assessed in the brain and compared to age-matched controls (wild-type [WT] C57Bl/6). Additionally, the MR relaxation times T(1), T(2), and T(2)* were measured to detect potential pathological changes that might be associated with Abeta plaque depositions. Both decreased perfusion and decreased blood volume were observed in the occipital cortex in B6.PS2APP mice as compared to controls. A significant decrease in T(1) and T(2) was found in the frontal cortex and in the subiculum/parasubiculum. Immunohistochemistry confirmed plaque depositions in the cortex and in the subiculum/parasubiculum. In summary, our data indicate a reduced blood supply of B6.PS2APP mice in the occipital cortex that parallels the findings in cortical regions of patients with AD."}
{"id": "19443597", "title": "Comparison of 18F-FDG and PiB PET in cognitive impairment.", "content": "Comparison of 18F-FDG and PiB PET in cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of glucose metabolism and amyloid deposition as demonstrated by (18)F-FDG and Pittsburg Compound B (PiB) PET to evaluate subjects with cognitive impairment. Subjects were selected from existing participants in the Mayo Alzheimer's Disease Research Center or Alzheimer's Disease Patient Registry programs. A total of 20 healthy controls and 17 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), 6 nonamnestic mild cognitive impairment (naMCI), and 13 Alzheimer disease (AD) subjects were imaged with both PiB and (18)F-FDG PET between March 2006 and August 2007. Global measures for PiB and (18)F-FDG PET uptake, normalized to cerebellum for PiB and pons for (18)F-FDG, were compared. Partial-volume correction, standardized uptake value (SUV), and cortical ratio methods of image analysis were also evaluated in an attempt to optimize the analysis for each test. Significant discrimination (P < 0.05) between controls and AD, naMCI and aMCI, naMCI and AD, and aMCI and AD by PiB PET measurements was observed. The paired groupwise comparisons of the global measures demonstrated that PiB PET versus (18)F-FDG PET showed similar significant group separation, with only PiB showing significant separation of naMCI and aMCI subjects. PiB PET and (18)F-FDG PET have similar diagnostic accuracy in early cognitive impairment. However, significantly better group discrimination in naMCI and aMCI subjects by PiB, compared with (18)F-FDG, was seen and may suggest early amyloid deposition before cerebral metabolic disruption in this group."}
{"id": "19440558", "title": "Biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. It has been determined that patients suffering from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) may progress to Alzheimer's disease (AD), which offers a window for therapeutic intervention to slow or halt disease progression. Thus, the detection of prodromal AD is essential to initiate early treatment. The key pathologic hallmark of AD is amyloid beta peptide 42 (Abeta(42)). Probably because of its direct contact with brain tissue, levels of Abeta(42) in combination with phosphorylated tau determined in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) appear to be useful markers of the disease. In addition, structural and functional brain imaging with magnetic resonance techniques and metabolic imaging with positron emission tomography have been shown to provide useful disease markers. These imaging markers include diminished global brain and hippocampus volume, grey matter loss in the mediotemporal lobe, functional neuronal disconnections and regional hypometabolism. To date, the combination of CSF Abeta(42) and tau parameters provide a sensitivity and a specificity of > 80%. In this article we summarize key aspects of diagnostic markers for AD based on published knowledge. We also dwell on the potential usefulness of these markers for treatment monitoring and in the process of developing and evaluating novel drugs."}
{"id": "19439965", "title": "Brain metabolic correlates of cerebrospinal fluid beta-amyloid 42 and tau in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain metabolic correlates of cerebrospinal fluid beta-amyloid 42 and tau in Alzheimer's disease. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins beta-amyloid 42 (Abeta42) and Tau are believed to indirectly reflect some core pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Their topographic origin and their association with synaptic dysfunction are still not well understood. The present study aimed to explore possible associations between cerebral glucose metabolism and CSF Abeta42 as well as Tau protein levels in AD. CSF analyses and (18)F-FDG PET scans were conducted on 32 patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Voxel-based statistical parametric correlations were computed for CSF protein levels and cerebral glucose metabolism. After correction for multiple comparisons, a strong positive association between CSF Abeta42 levels and glucose metabolism was identified for 2 extensive clusters located in the right temporal, prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices. For CSF Tau protein, no association was observed for any brain region. These findings point to a significant association between synaptic dysfunction as measured with (18)F-FDG PET and CSF Abeta42 levels, but do not suggest a correlation between synaptic function and CSF Tau levels."}
{"id": "19433663", "title": "Preclinical evidence of Alzheimer changes: convergent cerebrospinal fluid biomarker and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography findings.", "content": "Preclinical evidence of Alzheimer changes: convergent cerebrospinal fluid biomarker and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography findings. Alterations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau and beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 (Abeta(42)) levels and rates of cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglu) on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) occur years before clinical symptoms of Alzheimer disease (AD) become manifest, but their relationship remains unclear. To determine whether CSF AD biomarker levels and CMRglu in healthy individuals correlate in brain structures affected early in AD. Cohort study. Alzheimer disease research center. Twenty individuals without dementia aged 46 to 83 years. Lumbar CSF sampling and FDG-PET imaging of CMRglu. The CSF Abeta(42), tau, and tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (ptau(181)) levels were measured using immunobead-based multiplex assays. Correlations between CMRglu and CSF biomarker levels were analyzed via voxel-based and volume-of-interest approaches. Voxel-based analyses demonstrated significant negative correlations between CSF tau and ptau(181) levels and CMRglu in the posterior cingulate, precuneus, and parahippocampal regions. In contrast, a limited positive correlation was found between CSF Abeta(42) levels and CMRglu in the inferior temporal cortex. Volume-of-interest analyses confirmed negative associations between CSF tau and ptau(181) levels and CMRglu in the parietal and medial parietal lobes and a positive association between CSF Abeta(42) levels and CMRglu in the parahippocampal gyrus. In healthy individuals, higher CSF tau and ptau(181) concentrations were associated with more severe hypometabolism in several brain regions affected very early in AD, whereas lower CSF Abeta(42) concentrations were associated with hypometabolism only in the medial temporal lobe. This suggests that early tau and Abeta abnormalities may be associated with subtle synaptic changes in brain regions vulnerable to AD. A longitudinal assessment of CSF and FDG-PET biomarkers is needed to determine whether these changes predict cognitive impairment and incipient AD."}
{"id": "19416953", "title": "Combined magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography brain imaging in behavioural variant frontotemporal degeneration: refining the clinical phenotype.", "content": "Combined magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography brain imaging in behavioural variant frontotemporal degeneration: refining the clinical phenotype. In patients with the behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia, prognosis is often surprisingly good when there is normal structural imaging at presentation. Imaging abnormalities are not, however, mandatory for diagnosis, which in the absence of suitable biomarkers, remains entirely clinical. We aimed to test whether cases with normal structural imaging have hypometabolism suggestive of underlying neurodegeneration, or whether it is likely that such patients are false positive diagnoses of behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. Patients with this disease (n = 24) and age-matched controls (n = 12) underwent both magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and quantitative fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scanning, together with clinical and behavioural assessments. Regions of interest were used to calculate metabolic rate in frontotemporal and control regions. Using a semi-quantitative visual rating scale, patients were divided into MRI-abnormal (n = 15) and MRI-normal groups (n = 9). There was definite frontotemporal hypometabolism in the MRI-abnormal group (particularly in the mesial and orbitofrontal regions) even after accounting for brain volume loss, whereas the MRI-normal group was similar to controls in all regions. In contrast, cognitive and behavioural indices did not separate the two behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia patient groups. The results suggest that the clinical syndrome of the behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia may not be specific for a neurodegenerative disease, and we hypothesize the existence of a phenocopy. A number of alternative neuropsychiatric and developmental explanations are discussed. We advise caution in diagnosing the illness in patients without imaging abnormalities, and propose that imaging findings are included in criteria for diagnosis."}
{"id": "19414715", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow and metabolic rate in persistent Lyme encephalopathy.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow and metabolic rate in persistent Lyme encephalopathy. There is controversy regarding whether objective neurobiological abnormalities exist after intensive antibiotic treatment for Lyme disease. To determine whether patients with a history of well-characterized Lyme disease and persistent cognitive deficit show abnormalities in global or topographic distributions of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) or cerebral metabolic rate (rCMR). Case-controlled study. A university medical center. A total of 35 patients and 17 healthy volunteers (controls). Patients had well-documented prior Lyme disease, a currently reactive IgG Western blot, prior treatment with at least 3 weeks of intravenous cephalosporin, and objective memory impairment. Patients with persistent Lyme encephalopathy were compared with age-, sex-, and education-matched controls. Fully quantified assessments of rCBF and rCMR for glucose were obtained while subjects were medication-free using positron emission tomography. The CBF was assessed in 2 resting room air conditions (without snorkel and with snorkel) and 1 challenge condition (room air enhanced with carbon dioxide, ie, hypercapnia). Statistical parametric mapping analyses revealed regional abnormalities in all rCBF and rCMR measurements that were consistent in location across imaging methods and primarily reflected hypoactivity. Deficits were noted in bilateral gray and white matter regions, primarily in the temporal, parietal, and limbic areas. Although diminished global hypercapnic CBF reactivity (P < .02) was suggestive of a component of vascular compromise, the close coupling between CBF and CMR suggests that the regional abnormalities are primarily metabolically driven. Patients did not differ from controls on global resting CBF and CMR measurements. Patients with persistent Lyme encephalopathy have objectively quantifiable topographic abnormalities in functional brain activity. These CBF and CMR reductions were observed in all measurement conditions. Future research should address whether this pattern is also seen in acute neurologic Lyme disease."}
{"id": "19394959", "title": "Dose-dependent frontal hypometabolism on FDG-PET in methamphetamine abusers.", "content": "Dose-dependent frontal hypometabolism on FDG-PET in methamphetamine abusers. Although a lot of evidence from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies supports the view that patients with substance dependence have abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex, functional deficits in the prefrontal cortex have not been fully investigated in methamphetamine (MA) dependent patients. This study was prepared to examine whether MA abusers have cerebral metabolic abnormalities and executive dysfunction. Twenty-four abstinent MA dependent patients and 21 age-matched control subjects underwent resting brain FDG-PET and completed computerized versions of the Wisconsin card sorting test (WCST). Resting brain PET images were obtained 30min after an intravenous injection of 370MBq of (18)F-FDG. Significant differences in glucose metabolism were estimated for every voxel using t-statistics on SPM2 implemented in Matlab. Resting brain FDG-PET revealed significant hypometabolism in the left inferior frontal white matter (Talairach coordinates (x, y, z): -34, 7, 31) in MA dependent patients compared to the control subjects (corrected p=0.001, peak Z=5.37, voxel number 201). The nearest gray matter region was the left inferior frontal cortex (Brodmann area 9). There were negative correlations between the relative regional cerebral metabolism for glucose (rCMRglc) in the left inferior frontal white matter and the total cumulative dose of MA (r=-0.57, p<0.01). MA dependent patients completed significantly fewer categories (3.8+/-2.2) and made more perseveration errors (21.3+/-11.8) and total errors (43.5+/-19.5) on the WCST when compared to the control subjects (p<0.01). These data suggest that MA dependent patients have dose-dependent frontal hypometabolism and frontal executive dysfunction."}
{"id": "19383438", "title": "A cerebral functional imaging study by positron emission tomography in healthy volunteers receiving true or sham acupuncture needling.", "content": "A cerebral functional imaging study by positron emission tomography in healthy volunteers receiving true or sham acupuncture needling. Our recent studies have demonstrated that needling in Baihui, Shuigou and Shenmen enhances glucose metabolism in the frontal lobes, thalamus, temporal lobe, and the lentiform nucleus in vascular dementia. This study examined the effect of true, sham and overt needling in Waiguan (TE5) on cerebral changes by positron emission tomography (PET) technique. Eighteen healthy volunteers were randomized to receive overt control, true or sham needling therapy. To manipulate true needling, a needle was inserted into 15+/-2mm into Waiguan and \"deqi\" was achieved by proper needle manipulation. For sham needling, needles with a blunt tip were pushed against the skin as the shaft moved into the handle, giving an illusion of insertion. For overt placebo, blunt needles were used and subjects did not receive any needling penetration. The tracer used was (18)fluoride-deoxygluocse. PET images obtained were processed and analyzed by the SPM2 software. Compared with overt needling, brain areas BA7, 13, 18, 19, 21, 22, 27, 38, 40, 42 and 45 in Waiguan true needling group were significantly activated and areas BA4, 6, 7, 19, 22 and 41 in sham needling group showed obvious activation. Compared to sham needling group, marked activation points were found in the areas of BA13 and 42 and left cerebellum in true needling group. Our study revealed a marked difference in brain metabolic changes between true and sham needling in Waiguan. Further studies are needed to explore the cerebral changes in patients with acupuncture and the pathological implications."}
{"id": "19368900", "title": "Serotonin modulation of cerebral glucose metabolism in depressed older adults.", "content": "Serotonin modulation of cerebral glucose metabolism in depressed older adults. Monoamine dysfunction, particularly of the serotonin system, has been the dominant hypothesis guiding research and treatment development in affective disorders. The majority of research has been performed in midlife depressed adults. The importance of understanding the neurobiology of depression in older adults is underscored by increased rates of mortality and completed suicide and an increased risk of Alzheimer's dementia. To evaluate the dynamic response of the serotonin system, the acute effects of citalopram infusion on cerebral glucose metabolism was measured in depressed older adults and control subjects. The hypothesis was tested that smaller decreases in metabolism would be observed in cortical and limbic regions in depressed older adults relative to control subjects. Sixteen depressed older adults and 13 control subjects underwent two resting positron emission tomography (PET) studies with the radiotracer [18F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose after placebo and citalopram infusions. In control subjects compared with depressed older adults, greater citalopram-induced decreases in cerebral metabolism were observed in the right anterior cingulate, middle temporal (bilaterally), left precuneus, and left parahippocampal gyri. Greater decreases in the depressed older adults than control subjects were observed in left superior and left middle frontal gyri and increases in left inferior parietal lobule, left cuneus, left thalamus, and right putamen. In depressed older adults relative to control subjects, the cerebral metabolic response to citalopram is blunted in cortico-cortical and cortico-limbic pathways and increased in the left hemisphere (greater decrease interiorly and increases posteriorly). These findings suggest both blunted and compensatory cerebral metabolic responses to citalopram in depressed older adults."}
{"id": "19349228", "title": "Categorical and correlational analyses of baseline fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography images from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).", "content": "Categorical and correlational analyses of baseline fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography images from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). In mostly small single-center studies, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with characteristic and progressive reductions in fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl). The AD Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is acquiring FDG PET, volumetric magnetic resonance imaging, and other biomarker measurements in a large longitudinal multi-center study of initially mildly affected probable AD (pAD) patients, amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) patients, who are at increased AD risk, and cognitively normal controls (NC), and we are responsible for analyzing the PET images using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). Here we compare baseline CMRgl measurements from 74 pAD patients and 142 aMCI patients to those from 82 NC, we correlate CMRgl with categorical and continuous measures of clinical disease severity, and we compare apolipoprotein E (APOE) varepsilon4 carriers to non-carriers in each of these subject groups. In comparison with NC, the pAD and aMCI groups each had significantly lower CMRgl bilaterally in posterior cingulate, precuneus, parietotemporal and frontal cortex. Similar reductions were observed when categories of disease severity or lower Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) scores were correlated with lower CMRgl. However, when analyses were restricted to the pAD patients, lower MMSE scores were significantly correlated with lower left frontal and temporal CMRgl. These findings from a large, multi-site study support previous single-site findings, supports the characteristic pattern of baseline CMRgl reductions in AD and aMCI patients, as well as preferential anterior CMRgl reductions after the onset of AD dementia."}
{"id": "19342545", "title": "Simultaneous measurement of arterial transit time, arterial blood volume, and cerebral blood flow using arterial spin-labeling in patients with Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Simultaneous measurement of arterial transit time, arterial blood volume, and cerebral blood flow using arterial spin-labeling in patients with Alzheimer disease. Cerebral hemodynamics abnormality in Alzheimer disease (AD) is not fully understood. Our aim was to determine whether regional hypoperfusion due to AD is associated with abnormalities in regional arterial blood volume (rABV) and regional arterial transit time (rATT) as measured by quantitative arterial spin-labeling (ASL) with multiple-delay time sampling. Nineteen patients with AD (9 men and 10 women; mean age, 74.5 +/- 8.6 years) and 22 cognitively healthy control subjects (11 men and 11 women; mean age, 72.8 +/- 6.8 years) were studied by using a quantitative ASL method with multiple-delay time sampling. From the ASL data, maps of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), rABV, and rATT were generated. A region of hypoperfusion due to AD was determined by statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis. Mean rCBF, rABV, and rATT values within the hypoperfused region were compared between the AD and control groups. Despite the significantly lower rCBF (P = .0004) in patients with AD (27.8 +/- 7.1 mL/100 g/min) in comparison with control subjects (36.7 +/- 6.3 mL/100 g/min), no significant difference in rATT was observed between the control (0.48 +/- 0.09 seconds) and AD (0.47 +/- 0.10 seconds) groups. Mean rABV was lower in the AD group (0.22 +/- 0.10%) than in the control group (0.27 +/- 0.12%), though the difference did not reach the level of statistical significance. Our results revealed that regional hypoperfusion in AD is not associated with rATT prolongation, suggesting that the mechanism of hypoperfusion is distinct from that in cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "19332421", "title": "11C-PiB PET studies in typical sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "11C-PiB PET studies in typical sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Brain amyloid imaging using positron emission tomography (PET) is of increasing importance in the premortem evaluation of dementias, particularly in relation to Alzheimer disease (AD). The purpose of this study was to explore the premortem diagnostic utility of (11)C-PiB PET in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). Two patients, 72 and 59 years old, underwent evaluation for rapidly progressive cognitive decline, dying after illness durations of 5 and 7 months, respectively. As part of their comprehensive assessment, (18)F-FDG PET and (11)C-PiB PET studies were performed approximately 2-4 weeks prior to death, and the brain regional distributions compared with those from cohorts of healthy controls (HC) and AD patients. Routine investigations, including brain MRI scans, revealed changes typical of sporadic CJD, with the diagnosis confirmed at autopsy in both patients. The (18)F-FDG PET showed global hypometabolism in one patient and thalamic and frontal hypometabolism with unexpected hypermetabolism in the dentate nuclei of the cerebellum in the other. Neither patient displayed cerebral cortical (11)C-PiB PET retention above the levels observed in HC. No grey-matter (11)C-PiB retention was observed in two pathologically confirmed cases of typical sporadic CJD. We speculate that low PrP plaque density and small plaque size, as well as a relatively low affinity of the radioligand, explain the absence of (11)C-PiB retention. More studies to validate this hypothesis are warranted."}
{"id": "19330195", "title": "[Molecular imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism with SPET and PET in principal dementias].", "content": "[Molecular imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism with SPET and PET in principal dementias]. In this review article the significance of molecular imaging techniques, single photon emission tomography and positron emission tomography (SPET and PET), in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of various types of dementia is described. A major part of this article is focused on molecular imaging in Alzheimer's disease where parietal, temporal and posterior cingulate cortex hypoperfusion and hypometabolism are the predominant findings in molecular imaging modalities. In cases of mild amnestic cognitive impairment, molecular SPET imaging can differentiate patients converting to Alzheimer's disease from non converters. Molecular SPET imaging with pre-synaptic dopamine receptors radioligand ((123)I-ioflupane or DaTSCAN), is the method of choice in order to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from Lewy body dementia. Finally, nuclear medicine procedures support the diagnosis in fronto-temporal and multi-infarct dementia."}
{"id": "19300878", "title": "Knowing the natural course of biomarkers in AD: longitudinal MRI, CSF and PET data.", "content": "Knowing the natural course of biomarkers in AD: longitudinal MRI, CSF and PET data."}
{"id": "19296551", "title": "The neural correlates of naming and fluency deficits in Alzheimer's disease: an FDG-PET study.", "content": "The neural correlates of naming and fluency deficits in Alzheimer's disease: an FDG-PET study. To examine the neural processes associated with language deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and in particular to elucidate the correlates of confrontation naming and word retrieval impairments. Sixty patients with probable AD were included. Confrontation naming was assessed using the number of words spontaneously named correctly on the Boston Naming Test. We recorded the number of additional words stated following phonemic cuing. We also assessed phonemic (FAS) and semantic (supermarket items) fluency. We then correlated performance on each measure with resting cortical metabolic activity using FDG-PET images. We found that poorer ability to spontaneously name an object was associated with hypometabolism of bilateral inferior temporal lobes. In contrast, when a phonemic cue was provided, successful naming under this condition was associated with higher metabolic activity in bilateral inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), right superior frontal gyrus (SFG), left temporal, and occipital regions. Consistent with these findings, we found that poorer semantic fluency was associated with hypometabolism in regions including both IFG and temporal regions, and poorer phonemic fluency was associated with hypometabolism in only left IFG. Across analyses, measures that required cued retrieval were associated with metabolism in the left IFG, whereas measures taxing semantic knowledge were associated with metabolic rate of left temporal cortex. Naming deficits in AD reflect compromise to temporal regions involved in the semantic knowledge network, and frontal regions involved in the controlled retrieval of information from that network."}
{"id": "19281227", "title": "Dissecting molecular mechanisms in the living brain of dementia patients.", "content": "Dissecting molecular mechanisms in the living brain of dementia patients. Understanding the molecular mechanisms associated with the development of dementia is essential for designing successful interventions. Dementia, like cancer and cardiovascular disease, requires early detection to potentially arrest or prevent further disease progression. By the time a neurologist begins to manage clinical symptoms, the disease has often damaged the brain significantly. Because successful treatment is the logical goal, detecting the disease when brain damage is still limited is of the essence. The role of chemistry in this discovery process is critical. With the advent of molecular imaging, the understanding of molecular mechanisms in human neurodegenerative diseases has exploded. Traditionally, knowledge of enzyme and neurotransmitter function in humans has been extrapolated from animal studies, but now we can acquire data directly from both healthy and diseased human subjects. In this Account, we describe the use of molecular imaging probes to elucidate the biochemical and cellular bases of dementia (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) and the application of these discoveries to the design of successful therapeutic interventions. Molecular imaging permits observation and evaluation of the basic molecular mechanisms of disease progression in the living brains of patients. 2-Deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose is used to assess the effect of Alzheimer's disease progression on neuronal circuits projecting from and to the temporal lobe (one of the earliest metabolic signs of the disease). Recently, we have developed imaging probes for detection of amyloid neuropathology (both tau and beta-amyloid peptide deposits) and neuronal losses. These probes allow us to visualize the development of pathology in the living brain of dementia patients and its consequences, such as losses of critical neurons associated with memory deficits and other neuropsychiatric impairments. Because inflammatory processes are tightly connected to the brain degenerative processes, inflammation is now emerging as an important target for new molecular imaging probes. The combination of molecular probes targeting various processes of dementia is a useful tool for detailed monitoring of disease mechanism, progression, and diagnosis, as well as for the development of rational strategies for promising therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "19280185", "title": "Riluzole protects Huntington disease patients from brain glucose hypometabolism and grey matter volume loss and increases production of neurotrophins.", "content": "Riluzole protects Huntington disease patients from brain glucose hypometabolism and grey matter volume loss and increases production of neurotrophins. Huntington disease (HD) mutation increases gain-of-toxic functions contributing to glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. Riluzole interferes with glutamatergic neurotransmission, thereby reducing excitotoxicity, enhancing neurite formation in damaged motoneurons and increasing serum concentrations of BDNF, a brain cortex neurotrophin protecting striatal neurons from degeneration. We investigated metabolic and volumetric differences in distinct brain areas between 11 riluzole-treated and 12 placebo-treated patients by MRI and (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) PET scanning, according to fully automated protocols. We also investigated the influence of riluzole on peripheral growth factor blood levels. Placebo-treated patients showed significantly greater proportional volume loss of grey matter and decrease in metabolic FDG uptake than patients treated with riluzole in all cortical areas (p<0.05). The decreased rate of metabolic FDG uptake correlated with worsening clinical scores in placebo-treated patients, compared to those who were treated with riluzole. The progressive decrease in metabolic FDG uptake observed in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex correlated linearly with the severity of motor scores calculated by Unified Huntington Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS-I) in placebo-treated patients. Similarly, the rate of metabolic changes in the frontal and temporal areas of the brain cortex correlated linearly with worsening behavioural scores calculated by UHDRS-III in the placebo-treated patients. Finally, BDNF and transforming growth factor beta-1 serum levels were significantly higher in patients treated with riluzole. The linear correlation between decreased metabolic FDG uptake and worsening clinical scores in the placebo-treated patients suggests that FDG-PET may be a valuable procedure to assess brain markers of HD."}
{"id": "19269116", "title": "Brain positron emission tomography in preterm and term newborn infants.", "content": "Brain positron emission tomography in preterm and term newborn infants. To study the clinical values of positron emission tomography (PET) in preterm and term newborn infants through observing brain glucose metabolism by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) PET. To observe the brain (18)F-FDG PET imaging in 9 term and 7 preterm newborn infants in the same condition after administration of 0.1 mCi/kg (18)F-FDG. The brain (18)F-FDG PET imaging showed that the uptake of (18)F-FDG was relatively more in the thalamus, and less in the cerebral cortex in preterm and term newborn infants. The uptake of (18)F-FDG of cerebral cortex in preterm infants was less than that in term infants, so the structure of brain (18)F-FDG PET imaging was a little fainter in preterm neonates as compared with that in term newborns. (18)F-FDG PET imaging could show different glucose metabolisms of brain in preterm and term infants. Brain (18)F-FDG PET imaging might be a useful tool for estimating the brain function in newborn infants, and its clinical values need further investigation."}
{"id": "19237703", "title": "An inverse association of cardiovascular risk and frontal lobe glucose metabolism.", "content": "An inverse association of cardiovascular risk and frontal lobe glucose metabolism. To investigate associations between vascular risk profile and cerebral glucose metabolism. Subjects ranged from normal to having dementia (age >55 years) and underwent neuropsychological testing, MRI, and FDG PET scanning (n = 58). The Framingham Cardiovascular Risk Profile (FCRP) and its individual components were used as covariates in regression analyses with each PET scan using SPM2. Analyses revealed broad areas of the frontal lobe in which higher FCRP was associated with lower normalized glucose metabolism including the superior medial frontal, superior frontal and superior orbital frontal cortex and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Significant associations were predominately found in the left hemisphere. Independent component analyses revealed interesting regions but further confirm the relevance of the integrative measure of coronary risk. Although the mechanism of this association bears further investigation, this finding provides further evidence that vascular risk factors have malignant effects on the brain, particularly in the prefrontal cortex."}
{"id": "19236162", "title": "Survival in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and related disorders: latent class predictors and brain functional correlates.", "content": "Survival in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and related disorders: latent class predictors and brain functional correlates. Establishing survival rate in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a clinical challenge for defining disease outcomes and monitoring therapeutic interventions. Using the latent profile analysis (LPA) approach, we have previously suggested that FTLD patients can be grouped into specific phenotypes- \"pseudomanic behavior\" (LC1), \"cognitive\" (LC2), and \"pseudodepressed behavior\" (LC3)-on the basis of neuropsychological, functional, and behavioral data. The aim of this study was to evaluate the rate of survival in FTLD, to identify predictors of survival, and to determine the likely usefulness of LPA in defining prognosis. A total of 252 FTLD patients entered the study. A clinical evaluation and standardized assessment were carried out, as well as a brain imaging study. LPA on neuropsychological, functional, and behavioral data was performed. Each patient was followed up over a 5-year period, and institutionalization or death was considered. The survival rate was associated neither with demographic characteristics, co-morbidities, family history for dementia, nor clinical diagnosis. The presence of the three LC phenotypes was confirmed by LPA. A different survival rate was predicted by LCs, the worse prognosis being found in LC1 (hazard ratio [HR] = 15.7, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 7.2-34.9, p < 0.001, reference LC3). LC2 had a worse prognosis compared to LC3 (HR = 2.07, 95% CI = 0.98-4.37, p = 0.06). Greater hypoperfusion in the orbitomesial frontal cortex was specifically associated with LC1 compared with the other LCs. A data-driven approach regarding neuropsychological and behavioral assessment might be useful in clinical practice for defining a FTLD prognosis and hopefully will lead to the possibility of identifying patient groups for the evaluation of treatment response in future trials."}
{"id": "19219430", "title": "Association between FDG uptake, CSF biomarkers and cognitive performance in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Association between FDG uptake, CSF biomarkers and cognitive performance in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Brain imaging of FDG uptake and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration of amyloid-beta 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) or tau proteins are promising biomarkers in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There is still uncertainty regarding any association between decreased FDG uptake and alterations in CSF markers. The relationship between FDG uptake, CSF Abeta(1-42) and total tau (T-tau), as well as the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was investigated in 34 subjects with probable AD using step-wise linear regression. FDG uptake was scaled to the pons. Scaled FDG uptake was significantly reduced in the probable AD subjects compared to 17 controls bilaterally in the precuneus/posterior cingulate area, angular gyrus/inferior parietal cortex, inferior temporal/midtemporal cortex, midfrontal cortex, and left caudate. Voxel-based single-subject analysis of the probable AD subjects at p < 0.001 (uncorrected) revealed a total volume of significant hypometabolism ranging from 0 to 452 ml (median 70 ml). The total hypometabolic volume was negatively correlated with the MMSE score, but it was not correlated with the CSF measures. VOI-based step-wise linear regression revealed that scaled FDG uptake in the precuneus/posterior cingulate was negatively correlated with CSF Abeta(1-42). Scaled FDG uptake in the caudate was positively correlated with CSF T-tau. The extent and local severity of the reduction in FDG uptake in probable AD subjects are associated with cognitive impairment. In addition, there appears to be a relationship between local FDG uptake and CSF biomarkers which differs between different brain regions."}
{"id": "19199357", "title": "Distinct patterns of regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with and without mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Distinct patterns of regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with and without mild cognitive impairment. There is no consensus with regard to the clinical and neuroimaging characteristics of prodromal dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD). To delineate functional neuroimaging features of PD with mild cognitive impairment (PDMCI) and with no cognitive impairment (PDNC), we compared regional cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) amongst 13 patients with PDMCI, 27 with PDNC, and 13 healthy controls. The PDNC patients had limited areas of hypometabolism in the frontal and occipital cortices. In the PDMCI patients, there were extensive areas of hypometabolism in the posterior cortical regions, including the temporo-parieto-occipital junction, medial parietal, and inferior temporal cortices. The present results suggest that posterior cortical dysfunction is the primary neuroimaging feature of PD patients at risk for dementia."}
{"id": "19184324", "title": "The neuropsychological and neuroradiological correlates of slowly progressive visual agnosia.", "content": "The neuropsychological and neuroradiological correlates of slowly progressive visual agnosia. The case of a 64-year-old woman affected by slowly progressive visual agnosia is reported aiming to describe specific cognitive-brain relationships. Longitudinal clinical and neuropsychological assessment, combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), spectroscopy, and positron emission tomography (PET) were used. Sequential neuropsychological evaluations performed during a period of 9 years since disease onset showed the appearance of apperceptive and associative visual agnosia, alexia without agraphia, agraphia, finger agnosia, and prosopoagnosia, but excluded dementia. MRI showed moderate diffuse cortical atrophy, with predominant atrophy in the left posterior cortical areas (temporal, parietal, and lateral occipital cortical gyri). 18FDG-PET showed marked bilateral posterior cortical hypometabolism; proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging disclosed severe focal N-acetyl-aspartate depletion in the left temporoparietal and lateral occipital cortical areas. In conclusion, selective metabolic alterations and neuronal loss in the left temporoparietooccipital cortex may determine progressive visual agnosia in the absence of dementia."}
{"id": "19182462", "title": "The future: new methods of imaging exploration in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The future: new methods of imaging exploration in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex disease characterized by a whole cascade of pathological events. During the last 100 years, the role of amyloid in the development of AD has been the focus of major research. Today there is hope that amyloid imaging may help in the early detection of the disease and be used for evaluating new drug therapies including neuroprotective and preventive therapies in AD. The rapid development of the molecular imaging techniques now allows in vivo imaging not only of brain functional activity such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral glucose metabolism and neurotransmitter activity, and receptor density, but also pathological processes such as amyloid plaques and microglial activation in AD. Several positron emission tomography amyloid imaging ligands have recently been developed and tested in AD patients. High amyloid content can be detected in vivo by positron emission tomography in prodromal AD preceding the impairment of functional activity like cerebral glucose metabolism, and reduction in cholinergic activity, which are likely to follow the course of cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "19182460", "title": "Functional imaging in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease: is it pertinent?", "content": "Functional imaging in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease: is it pertinent? Neuroimaging techniques, namely positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are increasingly used to study mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and its conversion to dementia, as well as early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite an important overlap of the various imaging parameter values between MCI,early AD and controls, some markers may help clinical diagnosis in individual patients. For example,the combination of significantly reduced hippocampal volume and brain hypometabolism in a MCI patient establishes the anatomical and functional features seen in dementia. In association with clinical information, the topographic localization of the hypometabolism will help to precise the type of dementia. Functional brain activation studies using functional MRI and PET are not used for clinical purpose, but they allow to determine the differences between control and pathological states and thus to characterize the functional abnormalities specific to the disease. Finally, the use of biomarkers of the neuropathological lesions constitutes the most promising tool to accurately diagnose MCI and early AD patients."}
{"id": "19173332", "title": "The functional neuroanatomy of geriatric depression.", "content": "The functional neuroanatomy of geriatric depression. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism have demonstrated sensitivity in evaluating the functional neuroanatomy of treatment response variability in depression, as well as in the early detection of functional changes associated with incipient cognitive decline. The evaluation of cerebral glucose metabolism in late life depression may have implications for understanding treatment response variability, as well as evaluating the neurobiological basis of depression in late life as a risk factor for dementia. Sixteen patients with geriatric depression and 13 comparison subjects underwent resting PET studies of cerebral glucose metabolism, as well as magnetic resonance (MR) imaging scans to evaluate brain structure. Cerebral glucose metabolism was elevated in geriatric depressed patients relative to comparison subjects in anterior (right and left superior frontal gyrus) and posterior (precuneus, inferior parietal lobule) cortical regions. Cerebral atrophy (increased cerebrospinal fluid [CSF] and decreased grey and white matter volumes) were observed in some of these regions, as well. Regional cerebral metabolism was positively correlated with severity of depression and anxiety symptoms. In contrast to decreased metabolism observed in normal aging and neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, cortical glucose metabolism was increased in geriatric depressed patients relative to demographically matched controls, particularly in brain regions in which cerebral atrophy was observed, which may represent a compensatory response."}
{"id": "19153155", "title": "Social conceptual impairments in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with right anterior temporal hypometabolism.", "content": "Social conceptual impairments in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with right anterior temporal hypometabolism. Inappropriate social behaviours are early and distinctive symptoms of the temporal and frontal variants of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Knowledge of social behaviour is essential for appropriate social conduct. It is unknown, however, in what way this knowledge is degraded in FTLD. In a recent functional MRI study, we have identified a right-lateralized superior anterior temporal lobe (aTL) region showing selective activation for 'social concepts' (i.e. concepts describing social behaviour: e.g. 'polite', 'stingy') as compared with concepts describing less socially relevant animal behaviour ('animal function concepts': e.g. 'trainable', 'nutritious'). In a further fMRI study, superior aTL activation was independent of the context of actions and feelings associated with these social concepts. Here, we investigated whether the right superior sector of the aTL is necessary for context-independent knowledge of social concepts. We assessed neuronal glucose uptake using 18-fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and a novel semantic discrimination task which probed knowledge of social and animal function concepts in patients with FTLD (n = 29) and corticobasal syndrome (n = 18). FTLD and corticobasal syndrome groups performed equally poorly on animal function concepts but FTLD patients showed more pronounced impairments on social concepts than corticobasal syndrome patients. FTLD patients with right superior aTL hypometabolism, as determined on individual ROI analyses, were significantly more impaired on social concepts than on animal function concepts. FTLD patients with selective impairments for social concepts, as determined on individual neuropsychological profiles, showed higher levels of inappropriate social behaviours ('disinhibition') and demonstrated more pronounced hypometabolism in the right superior aTL, the left temporal pole and the right lateral orbitofrontal and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex as compared with FTLD patients showing selective impairments of animal function concepts. Combining both FTLD subgroup analyses, based on anatomical and neuropsychological criteria, by using inclusive masks, revealed the right superior aTL as associated with selective impairments of social concepts in both analyses. These results corroborate the hypothesis that the right aTL is necessary for representing conceptual social knowledge. Further, we provide first evidence for the potential importance of conceptual social knowledge impairments as contributing to behavioural symptoms of FTLD."}
{"id": "19153152", "title": "Cholinergic modulation of the cerebral metabolic response to citalopram in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cholinergic modulation of the cerebral metabolic response to citalopram in Alzheimer's disease. Pre-clinical and human neuropharmacological evidence suggests a role of cholinergic modulation of monoamines as a pathophysiological and therapeutic mechanism in Alzheimer's disease. The present study measured the effects of treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor and nicotinic receptor modulator, galantamine, on the cerebral metabolic response to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram. Seven probable Alzheimer's disease patients and seven demographically comparable controls underwent two positron emission tomography (PET) glucose metabolism scans, after administration of a saline placebo infusion (Day 1) and after citalopram (40 mg, IV, Day 2). The scan protocol was repeated in the Alzheimer's disease patients 2 months after titration to a 24 mg galantamine dose. At baseline, cerebral glucose metabolism was reduced in Alzheimer's disease patients relative to controls in right middle temporal, left posterior cingulate and parietal cortices (precuneus and inferior parietal lobule), as expected. Both groups demonstrated acute decreases in cerebral glucose metabolism after citalopram to a greater extent in the Alzheimer's disease patients. In the patients, relative to the controls, citalopram decreased glucose metabolism to a greater extent in middle frontal gyrus (bilaterally), left middle temporal gyrus and right posterior cingulate prior to treatment. Galantamine treatment alone increased metabolism in the right precuneus, right inferior parietal lobule and right middle occipital gyrus. In contrast, during galantamine treatment, citalopram increased metabolism in the right middle frontal gyrus, right post-central gyrus, right superior and middle temporal gyrus and right cerebellum. The combined cerebral metabolic effects of galantamine and citalopram suggest, consistent with preclinical data, a synergistic interaction of cholinergic and serotonergic systems."}
{"id": "19142633", "title": "FDG-PET changes in brain glucose metabolism from normal cognition to pathologically verified Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "FDG-PET changes in brain glucose metabolism from normal cognition to pathologically verified Alzheimer's disease. We report the first clinicopathological series of longitudinal FDG-PET scans in post-mortem (PM) verified cognitively normal elderly (NL) followed to the onset of Alzheimer's-type dementia (DAT), and in patients with mild DAT with progressive cognitive deterioration. Four NL subjects and three patients with mild DAT received longitudinal clinical, neuropsychological and dynamic FDG-PET examinations with arterial input functions. NL subjects were followed for 13 +/- 5 years, received FDG-PET examinations over 7 +/- 2 years, and autopsy 6 +/- 3 years after the last FDG-PET. Two NL declined to mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and two developed probable DAT before death. DAT patients were followed for 9 +/- 3 years, received FDG-PET examinations over 3 +/- 2 years, and autopsy 7 +/- 1 years after the last FDG-PET. Two DAT patients progressed to moderate-to-severe dementia and one developed vascular dementia. The two NL subjects who declined to DAT received a PM diagnosis of definite AD. Their FDG-PET scans indicated a progression of deficits in the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) from the hippocampus to the parietotemporal and posterior cingulate cortices. One DAT patient showed AD with diffuse Lewy body disease (LBD) at PM, and her last in vivo PET was indicative of possible LBD for the presence of occipital as well as parietotemporal hypometabolism. Progressive CMRglc reductions on FDG-PET occur years in advance of clinical DAT symptoms in patients with pathologically verified disease. The FDG-PET profiles in life were consistent with the PM diagnosis."}
{"id": "19139300", "title": "Carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B and carbon 11-labeled (R)-PK11195 positron emission tomographic imaging in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B and carbon 11-labeled (R)-PK11195 positron emission tomographic imaging in Alzheimer disease. Alzheimer disease (AD) is defined neuropathologically by the presence of neurofibrillary tangles and plaques associated with tau and beta-amyloid protein deposition. The colocalization of microglia and beta-amyloid plaques has been widely reported in pathological examination of AD and suggests that neuroinflammation may play a role in pathogenesis and/or progression. Because postmortem histopathological analyses are limited to single end-stage assessment, the time course and nature of this relationship are not well understood. To image microglial activation and beta-amyloid deposition in the brains of subjects with and without AD. Using two carbon 11 ([11C])-labeled positron emission tomographic imaging agents, Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) and (R)-PK11195, we examined the relationship between amyloid deposition and microglial activation in different stages of AD using 5 control subjects, 6 subjects diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment, and 6 patients with mild to moderate AD. Consistent with prior reports, subjects with a clinical diagnosis of probable AD showed significantly greater levels of [11C]PiB retention than control subjects, whereas patients with mild cognitive impairment spanned a range from control-like to AD-like levels of [11C]PiB retention. Additionally, 2 asymptomatic control subjects also exhibited evidence of elevated PiB retention in regions associated with the early emergence of plaques in AD and may represent prodromal cases of AD. We observed no differences in brain [11C](R)-PK11195 retention when subjects were grouped by clinical diagnosis or the presence or absence of beta-amyloid pathological findings as indicated by analyses of [11C]PiB retention. These findings suggest that either microglial activation is limited to later stages of severe AD or [11C](R)-PK11195 is too insensitive to detect the level of microglial activation associated with mild to moderate AD."}
{"id": "19138335", "title": "Changes in striatal dopamine D2 receptor binding in pre-clinical Huntington's disease.", "content": "Changes in striatal dopamine D2 receptor binding in pre-clinical Huntington's disease. Carriers of the Huntington disease (HD) mutation develop a progressive neurodegenerative disorder after a pre-clinical phase. We examined the value of (11)C-raclopride PET (RAC) as a biomarker for pre-clinical HD pathophysiology. In a prospective cohort study with clinical and neuropsychological assessment we collected complete RAC data in 18 pre-clinical mutation carriers (HD-PMC) and 11 controls. Follow-up was 2 years. We calculated striatal RAC binding potential (BP) to measure dopamine D2 receptor availability. No HD-PMC had overt neuropsychological dysfunction. RAC-BP in putamen was abnormal in up to 44% of HD-PMC. The rate of RAC-BP decline (2.6% per year) was not significantly higher than in controls. Follow-up putaminal BP correlated weakly with predicted distance to onset of clinical HD (P = 0.034), but the rate of decline did not. Three HD-PMC developed motor abnormalities suspect for HD but did not show an increased rate of decline of putaminal BP. Many HD-PMC have striatal abnormalities but we found no clearly increased rate of D2 receptor changes around the onset of clinical HD. A longer follow-up of the present study cohort is needed to establish the value of RAC-BP in assessing the risk of clinical conversion from striatal D2 binding data."}
{"id": "19137294", "title": "Cerebral perfusion (HMPAO-SPECT) in patients with depression with cognitive impairment versus those with mild cognitive impairment and dementia of Alzheimer's type: a semiquantitative and automated evaluation.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion (HMPAO-SPECT) in patients with depression with cognitive impairment versus those with mild cognitive impairment and dementia of Alzheimer's type: a semiquantitative and automated evaluation. Comparative evaluation of regional brain perfusion measured by HMPAO-SPECT of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) and depression with cognitive impairment (DCI). A total of 736 patients were investigated because of suspected cognitive dysfunction. After exclusion of patients with other forms of dementia than DAT or relevant accompanying disorders, SPECT data from 149 MCI, 131 DAT and 127 DCI patients, and 123 controls without any cognitive impairment, were analysed. Relative cerebral blood flow of 34 anatomical regions was assessed with automated analysis software (BRASS). Calculation of global forebrain perfusion discriminated demented from nondemented patients. Compared to controls DCI patients showed hypoperfusion of the thalamus, lentiform nucleus and medial temporal cortex. MCI patients differed significantly from controls concerning perfusion in both hemispheric temporal and parietal areas, and in the (right hemispheric) posterior part of the cingulate gyrus. MCI and DCI patients differed in the parietal, temporal superior and right hemispheric cingulate gyrus posterior cortices. Global forebrain and regional perfusion was more extensively reduced in DAT patients and discriminated them from controls, and MCI and DCI patients. Frontal perfusion disturbance was only present in DAT patients. Automated analysis of HMPAO-SPECT data from MCI patients showed significant perfusion deficits in regions also involved in DAT patients, but ROC analysis demonstrated only moderate sensitivity and specificity for differentiating DAT patients from controls and DCI patients. Frontal hypoperfusion seems to correspond with conversion from MCI to DAT. Finally, the results in DCI patients again raise the question of depression as an early symptom of neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "19124140", "title": "[Homonymous hemianopia and posterior cortical atrophy].", "content": "[Homonymous hemianopia and posterior cortical atrophy]. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is a clinically and radiologically defined syndrome, in which predominant symptoms focus on higher visual dysfunction with progressive course and association with cortical atrophy or hypometabolism that predominates in the posterior part of the hemispheres. Homonymous hemianopia (HH) has rarely been described in this syndrome. We report on six patients (four females, two males, aged 63 to 80) referred for visual disorder which led to demonstration of HH using perimetry testing. These patients were followed for 1 to 5 years after discovery of HH. Brain imaging with MRI or CT scan was obtained in the six cases and a SPECT scan was performed in four cases. HH was left-sided in four cases and right-sided in two cases. Associated symptoms related to higher visual dysfunction were simultagnosia, alone or as part of a full Balint's syndrome, alexia, constructional apraxia, dressing apraxia, visual form agnosia, prosopagnosia and hemispatial neglect. These symptoms were mild at onset but invariably worsened with disease progression. Dementia eventually developed in all cases. The clinical diagnosis was probable Alzheimer's disease in five cases and corticobasal degeneration in one case. Radiology showed posterior cortex atrophy in all cases as well as reduced cerebral blood flow in the same region, with an asymmetrical pattern compatible with the side of HH. Elementary cortical lesions in PCA can develop mainly in the associative visual areas and even in the primary visual area, resulting in HH. HH has rarely been documented in PCA, but its prevalence would probably be higher if systematic search was conducted. Apparently isolated HH of insidious onset should suggest PCA and lead to neuropsychological testing and search for discrete atrophic changes of the posterior cortex on MRI as well as for metabolic alterations with SPECT or PET."}
{"id": "19100808", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism difference between bipolar and unipolar mood disorders in depressed and euthymic states.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism difference between bipolar and unipolar mood disorders in depressed and euthymic states. Functional brain imaging studies have consistently demonstrated abnormalities in regional cerebral glucose metabolism in the prefrontal cortex in patients with mood disorders (MD). These studies, however, have not clarified the differential characteristics of glucose metabolism between depressed and euthymic states, or between bipolar mood disorder (BP) and unipolar mood disorder (UP). We used [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) to evaluate the differences in glucose metabolism at resting state. We compared 30 depressed and 17 euthymic female patients with mood disorders with age-, IQ-, and socioeconomically matched 20 healthy controls (HCs). Then, BP and UP patients were separately analyzed. The PET data were objectively analyzed by statistical parametric mapping (SPM). Compared with HCs, the depressed MD patients showed significantly lower glucose metabolism in the bilateral frontal gyri, left cingulate gyrus, bilateral temporal gyri, right insula, bilateral inferior parietal lobules, and right occipital gyrus. In contrast, the euthymic MD patients demonstrated fewer areas with significant reduction. When the depressed BP patients were separately compared with HCs, the glucose metabolism was found to be significantly lower in the bilateral frontal gyri, right cingulate gyrus, and bilateral inferior parietal lobules. Meanwhile, the depressed UP patients showed a significantly lower metabolism in the bilateral frontal gyri, left cingulate gyrus, bilateral temporal gyri, bilateral insulae, bilateral inferior parietal lobules, and right occipital gyrus. The results of this study provide evidence of persistent hypometabolism in depressed MD patients, particularly in the frontal gyrus. Although the conclusions are limited in the cross-sectional study, these findings suggest that abnormalities in the right frontal gyrus, left temporal gyrus, and left cingulate gyrus tend to normalize as the depression symptoms improve, although those in the left frontal gyrus, right cingulate gyrus, and right temporal gyrus persist. This study also elucidated the cerebral hypofunction specific to each BP and UP. BP patients showed a decrease in glucose metabolism in the right anterior cingulate and UP patients did in the right temporal gyrus, right insula, and left posterior cingulate. This study clarified the differences between subtypes."}
{"id": "19087899", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolic response to combined total sleep deprivation and antidepressant treatment in geriatric depression: a randomized, placebo-controlled study.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolic response to combined total sleep deprivation and antidepressant treatment in geriatric depression: a randomized, placebo-controlled study. A randomized, placebo-controlled study was performed to evaluate whether the onset of the glucose metabolic effects of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (paroxetine) would be accelerated by total sleep deprivation (TSD). Patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups: TSD and paroxetine treatment, TSD and 2 weeks of placebo followed by paroxetine treatment, or 2 weeks of paroxetine treatment. Sixteen elderly depressed patients who met DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder and nine age-matched comparison subjects underwent positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism at baseline, post-TSD (or a normal night's sleep for the paroxetine- only group), post-recovery sleep and 2 weeks post-paroxetine or placebo treatment (patients only). TSD was not consistently associated with a decrease in depressive symptoms between groups nor with decreases in cerebral metabolism in cortical regions that have been associated with rapid and sustained clinical improvement (e.g. anterior cingulate gyrus). The observation of a synergistic antidepressant effect of combined TSD and paroxetine treatment that was observed in a previous \"open label\" pilot study was not observed in the present randomized study, consistent with lack of a cerebral metabolic effect in brains regions previously shown to be associated with improvement of depressive symptoms."}
{"id": "19058816", "title": "Neuroimaging features in a case of developmental central auditory processing disorder.", "content": "Neuroimaging features in a case of developmental central auditory processing disorder. We describe a case of developmental central auditory processing disorder (CAPD) that was diagnosed with a multidisciplinary approach including structural and functional neuroimaging. A patient with developmental CAPD was investigated using diagnostic tools of MRI and (18)F-FDG HRRT-PET as well as neuropsychology and electrophysiology. Besides impaired auditory processing, our patient also showed some impediments in supramodal, cognitive and linguistic processes. His MRI showed selective atrophy in the bilateral auditory cortices, and the PET images showed hypometabolism in the bilateral auditory cortices and the precuneus. Such a multidisciplinary diagnostic approach that includes neuroimaging methods will be helpful in differentiating developmental CAPD from other developmental cognitive disorders."}
{"id": "19040787", "title": "Decreased cortical glucose metabolism in converters from CDR 0.5 to Alzheimer's disease in a community: the Osaki-Tajiri Project.", "content": "Decreased cortical glucose metabolism in converters from CDR 0.5 to Alzheimer's disease in a community: the Osaki-Tajiri Project. Several follow-up [18F]fluorodeoxy glucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) studies have been performed in patients with mild cognitive impairment, but none have examined subjects with a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) of 0.5. Therefore, we used FDG-PET to investigate whether baseline glucose metabolism (CMRglc) in CDR 0.5 converters to dementia showed changes consistent with early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based on our earlier study, which we refer to as Prevalence Study 1998, we were able to examine 14 CDR 0, 42 CDR 0.5, and 12 AD subjects with PET and follow these subjects for five years. Baseline neuropsychological and CMRglc values were compared among groups of CDR 0, CDR 0.5/converters, CDR 0.5/non-converters, and AD subjects. All CDR 0 subjects were reassessed as CDR 0 after the five-year period. For CDR 0.5 subjects, 20 had converted to AD and 22 remained as CDR 0.5. In cognitive tests, CDR 0.5/converters showed significantly deteriorated recent memory function compared with CDR 0.5/non-converters at the baseline evaluation. Most brain areas showed decreased CMRglc in AD patients. CDR 0.5/converters had a significantly lower baseline CMRglc in the right cingulate, left inferior parietal and left temporal gyrus compared with CDR 0.5/non-converters. Our findings suggest that CDR 0.5/converters have a baseline metabolic decline in areas that might be specific to AD."}
{"id": "19021838", "title": "Subcortical vascular versus amnestic mild cognitive impairment: comparison of cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Subcortical vascular versus amnestic mild cognitive impairment: comparison of cerebral glucose metabolism. Most studies on mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have been focused on amnestic MCI (aMCI) that is the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In contrast, only a few studies have involved patients in the preclinical stages of subcortical vascular dementia (subcortical vascular MCI, svMCI). We tried to compare the overall glucose metabolism in patients with svMCI with that of patients with aMCI. We compared the regional metabolic patterns shown on 18 F-FDG (fluro deoxy glucose) positron emission tomography (PET) images from 18 patients with svMCI with those from 25 aMCI patients matched for age, sex, education, and mini-mental state examination (MMSE) score and with those from 35 healthy subjects using a voxel-wise analysis. SPM 2 was used for statistical analysis. Relative to normal controls, the hypometabolic regions in the aMCI patients were in the bilateral parahippocampal, bilateral posterior cingulate, left superior temporal gyri, left inferior parietal lobule, and right inferior frontal gyrus while those in the svMCI patients were located in the thalamus, insula, superior temporal gyrus, anterior cingulate gyrus, cingulum, right basal ganglia, cerebellum, and brainstem. A direct comparison of glucose metabolism between svMCI and aMCI showed that the glucose hypometabolism in patients with svMCI was more severe in the thalamus, brainstem, and cerebellum. Our study suggested that svMCI was distinct from aMCI in terms of neuropsychological and PET findings, which may explain their clinical manifestations."}
{"id": "19005175", "title": "Declining brain glucose metabolism in normal individuals with a maternal history of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Declining brain glucose metabolism in normal individuals with a maternal history of Alzheimer disease. At cross-section, cognitively normal individuals (NL) with a maternal history of late-onset Alzheimer disease (AD) have reduced glucose metabolism (CMRglc) on FDG-PET in the same brain regions as patients with clinical AD as compared to those with a paternal and a negative family history (FH) of AD. This longitudinal FDG-PET study examines whether CMRglc reductions in NL subjects with a maternal history of AD are progressive. Seventy-five 50- to 82-year-old NL received 2-year follow-up clinical, neuropsychological, and FDG-PET examinations. These included 37 subjects with negative family history of AD (FH-), 9 with paternal (FHp), and 20 with maternal AD (FHm). Two subjects had parents with postmortem confirmed AD. Statistical parametric mapping was used to compare CMRglc across FH groups at baseline, follow-up, and longitudinally. At both time points, the FH groups were comparable for demographic and neuropsychological characteristics. At baseline and at follow-up, FHm subjects showed CMRglc reductions in the parieto-temporal, posterior cingulate, and medial temporal cortices as compared to FH- and FHp (p < 0.001). Longitudinally, FHm had significant CMRglc declines in these regions, which were significantly greater than those in FH- and FHp (p < 0.05). A maternal history of Alzheimer disease (AD) predisposes normal individuals to progressive CMRglc reductions in AD-vulnerable brain regions, which may be related to a higher risk for developing AD."}
{"id": "19001534", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography, single-photon emission tomography, and structural MR imaging for prediction of rapid conversion to Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography, single-photon emission tomography, and structural MR imaging for prediction of rapid conversion to Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment: a meta-analysis. Patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are at risk for developing Alzheimer disease (AD). To diagnose AD at an early stage, one must develop highly specific and sensitive tools to identify it among at-risk subjects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the ability of fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET), single-photon emission tomography (SPECT), and structural MR imaging to predict conversion to AD in patients with MCI. Relevant studies were identified with MEDLINE from January 1990 to April 2008. Meta-analysis and meta-regression were done on the diagnostic performance data for each technique from eligible studies. We estimated and compared the weighted summary sensitivities, specificities, likelihood ratios (LRs), and summary receiver operating characteristic curves of each imaging technique. Twenty-four eligible studies were included, with a total of 1112 patients. FDG-PET performed statistically better in LR+ and odds ratio (OR), whereas no statistical difference was found in pooled sensitivity, specificity, and LR- for each technique. No statistical difference was confirmed between SPECT and MR imaging. The Q* index estimates for FDG-PET, SPECT, and structural MR imaging were respectively 0.86, 0.75, and 0.76. In meta-regression, statistical significance was found only between technique and log OR, with a regression coefficient of -0.575. This meta-analysis showed that FDG-PET performs slightly better than SPECT and structural MR imaging in the prediction of conversion to AD in patients with MCI; parallel performance was found between SPECT and MR imaging."}
{"id": "19001354", "title": "Clinical picture of a patient with a novel PSEN1 mutation (L424V).", "content": "Clinical picture of a patient with a novel PSEN1 mutation (L424V). Young onset dementia raises concern about familial and non degenerative dementias. We describe a patient with early dementia. At the age of 26, a woman developed symptoms of anorexia nervosa, at 30 a memory and attention deficit, and at 34 abnormal behavior with impulsivity, aggression, and dysexecutive disorder. At 36 she showed aphasia, stereotyped behavior, hyperreflexia, grasping reflex, urinary incontinence, myoclonus, and seizures. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid were normal. Brain computed tomography and single photon emission computed tomography showed diffuse cortico-subcortical atrophy and frontotemporoparietal hypoperfusion. A Leu424Val mutation was present in PSEN1 gene. PSEN1 mutations can produce Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies phenotypes, or a combination of them. It has been proposed that the mutation type and location may influence the molecular pathogenesis and thus PSEN1 would represent a molecular connexion between these entities. This case shows a novel PSEN1 mutation with outstanding amnesic and frontal symptoms."}
{"id": "18985324", "title": "Mechanisms underlying cognitive enhancement and reversal of cognitive deficits in nonhuman primates by the ampakine CX717.", "content": "Mechanisms underlying cognitive enhancement and reversal of cognitive deficits in nonhuman primates by the ampakine CX717. Performance of cognitive tasks in nonhuman primates (NHPs) requires specific brain regions to make decisions under different degrees of difficulty or \"cognitive load.\" Local cerebral metabolic activity ([18F]FDG PET imaging) in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), medial temporal lobe (MTL), and dorsal striatum (DStr) is examined in NHPs performing a delayed-match-to-sample (DMS) task with variable degrees of cognitive load. Correlations between cognitive load and degree of brain metabolic activity were obtained with respect to the influence of the ampakine CX717 (Cortex Pharmaceuticals), using brain imaging and recordings of neuronal activity in NHPs and measures of intracellular calcium release in rat hippocampal slices. Activation of DLPFC, MTL, and DStr reflected changes in performance related to cognitive load within the DMS task and were engaged primarily on high load trials. Similar increased activation patterns and improved performance were also observed following administration of CX717. Sleep deprivation in NHPs produced impaired performance and reductions in brain activation which was reversed by CX717. One potential basis for this facilitation of cognition by CX717 was increased firing of task-specific hippocampal cells. Synaptic mechanisms affected by CX717 were examined in rat hippocampal slices which showed that N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-mediated release of intracellular calcium was reduced in slices from sleep-deprived rats and reversed by application of CX717 to the bathing medium. The findings provide insight into how cognition is enhanced by CX717 in terms of brain, and underlying neural, processes that are activated on high vs. low cognitive load trials."}
{"id": "18977818", "title": "Voxel-based analysis of cerebral glucose metabolism in mono- and dizygotic twins discordant for Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Voxel-based analysis of cerebral glucose metabolism in mono- and dizygotic twins discordant for Alzheimer disease. Sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD) is a multifactorial disease to which both genetic and environmental factors contribute. Therefore, twin pairs are useful in studying its pathogenesis and aetiology. Cerebral glucose metabolism has been found to be reduced in AD patients. Cerebral glucose metabolism was studied in seven monozygotic (MZ) and nine same-sexed dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs discordant for AD using positron emission tomography. To obtain objective and explorative results concerning differences in glucose metabolism, the analysis was performed utilising modern voxel-based analysis methodology statistical parametric mapping and automated region-of-interest analysis. In the demented MZ and DZ co-twins, cerebral glucose metabolism was extensively reduced compared with controls. The non-demented MZ co-twins showed reduced metabolism in inferior frontal, lateral temporal, parietal and medial temporal cortices as well as in the thalamus, putamen and right amygdala. In contrast, no reductions were found in the non-demented DZ co-twins. The reduction found in the non-demented MZ co-twins may be an indicator of genetic susceptibility to AD."}
{"id": "18948965", "title": "Inverse association between BMI and prefrontal metabolic activity in healthy adults.", "content": "Inverse association between BMI and prefrontal metabolic activity in healthy adults. Obesity has been associated with a higher risk for impaired cognitive function, which most likely reflects associated medical complications (i.e., cerebrovascular pathology). However, there is also evidence that in healthy individuals excess weight may adversely affect cognition (executive function, attention, and memory). Here, we measured regional brain glucose metabolism (using positron emission tomography (PET) and 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG)) to assess the relationship between BMI and brain metabolism (marker of brain function) in 21 healthy controls (BMI range 19-37 kg/m(2)) studied during baseline (no stimulation) and during cognitive stimulation (numerical calculations). Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) revealed a significant negative correlation between BMI and metabolic activity in prefrontal cortex (Brodmann areas 8, 9, 10, 11, 44) and cingulate gyrus (Brodmann area 32) but not in other regions. Moreover, baseline metabolism in these prefrontal regions was positively associated with performance on tests of memory (California Verbal Learning Test) and executive function (Stroop Interference and Symbol Digit Modality tests). In contrast, the regional brain changes during cognitive stimulation were not associated with BMI nor with neuropsychological performance. The observed association between higher BMI and lower baseline prefrontal metabolism may underlie the impaired performance reported in healthy obese individuals on some cognitive tests of executive function. On the other hand, the lack of an association between BMI and brain metabolic activation during cognitive stimulation indicates that BMI does not influence brain glucose utilization during cognitive performance. These results further highlight the urgency to institute public health interventions to prevent obesity."}
{"id": "18790818", "title": "Improved cerebral function in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy after subtemporal amygdalohippocampectomy.", "content": "Improved cerebral function in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy after subtemporal amygdalohippocampectomy. The functional changes that occur throughout the human brain after the selective removal of an epileptogenic lesion remain unclear. Subtemporal selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SAH) has been advocated as a minimally invasive surgical procedure for patients with medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). We evaluated the effects of subtemporal SAH on cerebral glucose metabolism and memory function in 15 patients with medically intractable MTLE with hippocampal sclerosis using [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised. The patients were evaluated before and 1-5 years (mean 2.6 years) after surgery. In patients with MTLE of the language-dominant hemisphere, the basal temporal language area was preserved by this surgical approach. Voxel-wise comparison of FDG-PET images was conducted using SPM5 to identify the brain regions showing postoperative changes in glucose metabolism (height threshold, P = 0.01 corrected for multiple comparisons; extent threshold, 100 voxels). During spatial normalization of the postoperative FDG-PET images, we used cost-function masking to minimize any inappropriate image distortion as a result of the abnormal signal within the surgically resected region. Postoperative glucose metabolism increased in extratemporal areas ipsilateral to the affected side, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the dorsomedial and ventromedial frontal cortices. Glucose metabolism also increased in the bilateral inferior parietal lobules and in the remaining temporal lobe regions remote from the resected mesial temporal region, such as the superior temporal gyrus and the temporal pole. By contrast, postoperative glucose metabolism decreased only in the mesial temporal area adjacent to the resected region. Postoperative verbal memory, delayed recall and attention/concentration scores were significantly better than preoperative scores regardless of the resected side. This study suggests that the selective removal of the epileptogenic region in MTLE using a subtemporal approach improved cerebral glucose metabolism in the areas receiving projections from the affected mesial temporal lobe. Cognitive improvement might result from a combination of good seizure control and minimizing the regions of the brain with postoperative functional impairment."}
{"id": "18691659", "title": "SPM-based count normalization provides excellent discrimination of mild Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment from healthy aging.", "content": "SPM-based count normalization provides excellent discrimination of mild Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment from healthy aging. Statistical comparisons of [(18)F]FDG PET scans between healthy subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) usually require normalization of regional tracer uptake via ROIs defined using additional software. Here, we validate a simple SPM-based method for count normalization. FDG PET scans of 21 mild, 15 very mild AD, 11 aMCI patients and 15 age-matched controls were analyzed. First, we obtained relative increases in the whole patient sample compared to controls (i.e. areas relatively preserved in patients) with proportional scaling to the cerebral global mean (CGM). Next, average absolute counts within the cluster with the highest t-value were extracted. Statistical comparisons of controls versus three patients groups were then performed using count normalization to CGM, sensorimotor cortex (SMC) as standard, and to the cluster-derived counts. Compared to controls, relative metabolism in aMCI patients was reduced by 15%, 20%, and 23% after normalization to CGM, SMC, and cluster-derived counts, respectively, and 11%, 21%, and 25% in mild AD patients. Logistic regression analyses based on normalized values extracted from AD-typical regions showed that the metabolic values obtained using CGM, SMC, and cluster normalization correctly classified 81%, 89% and 92% of aMCI and controls; classification accuracies for AD groups (very mild and mild) were 91%, 97%, and 100%. The proposed algorithm of fully SPM-based count normalization allows for a substantial increase of statistical power in detecting very early AD-associated hypometabolism, and very high accuracy in discriminating mild AD and aMCI from healthy aging."}
{"id": "18255191", "title": "Right prefrontal hypometabolism predicts delusions in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Right prefrontal hypometabolism predicts delusions in dementia with Lewy bodies. Delusions (DEL) are frequent in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB); however, the neural equivalent is poorly understood. The present study therefore aimed to identify the cerebral metabolic pattern of glucose of a DLB group suffering from DEL (DLB+DEL) as compared to a non-delusional group (DLB-DEL) and a control group (NL); and to determine the predictive value of the regional metabolic deficit for DEL symptomatology in comparison to other clinical variables significantly associated with DEL. Voxel-wise comparisons were conducted between the patient and control groups in SPM2. The most significant regional metabolic deficit of the DLB+DEL group was used a predictor for DEL symptomatology in a logistic regression analysis along with other variables significantly associated with DEL, such as visual hallucinations (VH), and overall cognitive impairment. A significant relative hypometabolism of the right prefrontal cortex was found in the DLB+DEL group, which predicted DEL symptomatology in the regression analysis. VH and overall cognitive dysfunction were no significant predictors. These results underline the significance of right prefrontal damage for DEL in DLB."}
{"id": "18178291", "title": "PK11195 labels activated microglia in Alzheimer's disease and in vivo in a mouse model using PET.", "content": "PK11195 labels activated microglia in Alzheimer's disease and in vivo in a mouse model using PET. Activated microglia may promote neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may also help in amyloid clearance in immunization therapies. In vivo imaging of activated microglia using positron emission tomography (PET) could assist in defining the role of activated microglia during AD progression and therapeutics. We hypothesized that PK11195, a ligand that binds activated microglia, could label these cells in postmortem AD tissues and in vivo in an animal model of AD using PET. [(3)H](R)-PK11195 binding was significantly higher in AD frontal cortex compared to controls and correlated mainly with the abundance of immunohistochemically labeled activated microglia. With age, the brains of APP/PS1 transgenic mice showed progressive increase in [(3)H](R)-PK11195 binding and [(11)C](R)-PK11195 retention in vivo assessed using microPET, which correlated with the histopathological abundance of activated microglia. These results suggest that PK11195 binding in AD postmortem tissue and transgenic mice in vivo correlates with the extent of microglial activation and may help define the role of activated microglia in the pathogenesis and treatment of AD."}
{"id": "17630048", "title": "Voxel-based mapping of brain gray matter volume and glucose metabolism profiles in normal aging.", "content": "Voxel-based mapping of brain gray matter volume and glucose metabolism profiles in normal aging. With age, the brain undergoes both structural and functional alterations, probably resulting in reported cognitive declines. Relatively few investigations have sought to identify those areas that remain intact with aging, or undergo the least deterioration, which might underlie cognitive preservations. Our aim here was to establish a comprehensive profile of both structural and functional changes in the aging brain, using up-to-date voxel-based methodology (i.e. optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM) procedure; resting-state (18)FDG-PET with correction for partial volume effects (PVE)) in 45 optimally healthy subjects aged 20-83 years. Negative and positive correlations between age and both gray matter (GM) volume and (18)FDG uptake were assessed. The frontal cortex manifested the greatest deterioration, both structurally and functionally, whereas the anterior hippocampus, the thalamus and (functionally) the posterior cingulate cortex were the least affected. Our results support the developmental theory which postulates that the first regions to emerge phylogenetically and ontogenetically are the most resistant to age effects, and the last ones the most vulnerable. Furthermore, the lesser affected anterior hippocampal region, together with the lesser functional alteration of the posterior cingulate cortex, appear to mark the parting of the ways between normal aging and Alzheimer's disease, which is characterized by early and prominent deterioration of both structures."}
{"id": "19899564", "title": "[Current diagnostic, clinical and therapeutic conceptions of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Current diagnostic, clinical and therapeutic conceptions of frontotemporal dementia]. The authors present a review of the selected publications on frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a progressive degeneration of the central nervous system. The typical symptoms of FTD are behavioural disorders, affective symptoms and speech disorders. Neuroimaging methods reveal atrophic lesions and hypometabolism of the frontal and temporal lobes."}
{"id": "19641249", "title": "When the past is lost: focal retrograde amnesia. Focus on the \"functional\" form.", "content": "When the past is lost: focal retrograde amnesia. Focus on the \"functional\" form. We report the clinical findings and neuropsychological profiles of a sample of patients exhibiting a focal retrograde amnesia (FRA) seen consecutively during the period 1992-2007. The cohort comprised 13 patients, five males, with a mean age of 30 years (range 16-49). They were given a neurologic examination, psychiatric interview and formal neuropsychological examination (all but one) during the amnesic phase, underwent neuroimaging, and were followed up for six months to ten years. All presented with an acute amnesia characterized by an impaired recollection of memories predating the acute event, with spared or minimally and transiently affected anterograde memory, thus consistent with FRA. The events triggering FRA varied widely: mild to severe head injury, road accident without head injury, seizure, dissociative fugue, BDZ overdose, posttraumatic headache, syncope, migraine attack, acute distress. The neuropsychological hallmark of FRA was a selective or prominent impairment of autobiographical memory. The defect was often so severe as to cover most or all of the patients' lives and, in some cases, to erase the knowledge of their own identity. Conventional neuroimaging (brain CT and MRI) was unimpressive. Cerebral SPECT/PET disclosed unilateral frontal hypoperfusion in three (two left). All but one patient fully recovered, time of recovery ranging from three days to six months. FRA is a condition reflecting a block of memory function triggered by heterogeneous events, including both physical and psychic insults. Analogies shared with the more frequently encountered and better known condition of transient global amnesia suggests common pathogenetic mechanisms. A tentative nosographic classification of FRA is finally offered."}
{"id": "19388323", "title": "Metabolic disturbance without brain ischemia in traumatic brain injury: a positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Metabolic disturbance without brain ischemia in traumatic brain injury: a positron emission tomography study. Cerebral ischemia is believed to be an important mechanism of secondary neuronal injury in traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this study, we performed 15O2 positron emission tomography (PET) studies to measure the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and oxygen metabolism (CMRO2) in the pericontusional region in a total of 15 patients (11 males, 4 females, aged 15-81 years) who sustained TBI with contusional hematoma. PET studies were performed a mean of 13.5 +/- 9.1 days (range 2-33 days) after TBI occurred. The areas of pericontusional tissues located 10 mm away from the cerebral contusion exhibited mildly decreased CBF (89%) and severely suppressed CMRO2 (67%) when comparison was made with the remote cerebral cortex. Severely suppressed oxygen metabolism in the pericontusional tissue was observed not only in the acute stage, but also in the subacute stage after TBI, whereas blood flow was slightly recovered in the subacute stage. We also compared the PET findings obtained in the acute or subacute stage after TBI and structural abnormalities on late-stage MRI in 5 patients. The area of flow defect on the CBF-PET image developed into irreversible tissue damage (necrosis) in the chronic stage. The area of hypoperfusion surrounding the lesion partly resulted in tissue necrosis: however, a large part of the hypoperfused tissue survived in the chronic stage. Again, a significant portion of oxygen hypometabolism surrounding the lesion did not develop into tissue necrosis. We conclude that impaired cerebral blood flow and metabolism in the pericontusional region is observed even in the subacute stage after TBI and is unlikely to cause severe further neuronal damage."}
{"id": "19142702", "title": "Adenosine A(1) receptors using 8-dicyclopropylmethyl-1-[(11)C]methyl-3-propylxanthine PET in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Adenosine A(1) receptors using 8-dicyclopropylmethyl-1-[(11)C]methyl-3-propylxanthine PET in Alzheimer's disease. Adenosine is an endogenous modulator of synaptic functions in the central nervous system. The effects of adenosine are mediated by at least four adenosine receptor subtypes. Decreased density of adenosine A1 receptors, which is a major subtype adenosine receptor in the hippocampus, has been reported in vitro in Alzheimer's disease. We evaluated adenosine A1 receptor in the brain of elderly normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (n = 8 and 6, respectively), using positron emission tomography (PET) and 8- dicyclopropylmethyl-1-[(11)C]methyl-3-propylxanthine ([(11)C]MPDX). A 60-min PET scan with [(11)C]MPDX was performed. The patients with Alzheimer's disease also underwent PET with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). The binding potential of [11C]MPDX was quantitatively calculated in the regions of interest (ROIs) placed on the frontal, medial frontal, temporal, medial temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices, striatum, thalamus, cerebellum, and pons. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM2) was used for analysis of [(11)C]MPDX and FDG-PET. In the ROI-based analysis, the binding potential of [(11)C]MPDX in patients with Alzheimer's disease was significantly lower in the temporal and medial temporal cortices and thalamus than that in elderly normal subjects (P = 0.038, 0.028, and 0.039, respectively). SPM analysis also showed significant decreased binding potential in the temporal and medial temporal cortices and thalamus in patients with Alzheimer's disease. FDG uptake was significantly decreased in the temporoparietal cortex and posterior cingulate gyrus. Decreased binding of [(11)C]MPDX in patients with Alzheimer's disease was detected in temporal and medial temporal cortices and thalamus. This pattern possibly differed from the hypometabolism pattern of FDG. [(11)C]MPDX PET is valuable for the detection of degeneration in the temporal and medial temporal cortices and corticothalamic transmission, and may provide a different diagnostic tool from FDG-PET in brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "19080710", "title": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with dementia].", "content": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with dementia]. To assess the regional cerebral glucose utilization and the imaging characteristic of Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET). Questionnaire survey, mini-mental state examination (MMSE), physical examination, and FDG PET on brain at rest state were performed on 20 patients with PDD, 13 males and 7 females, aged (70 +/- 6), and sex- and age-matched 8 patients with non-demented PD, and 30 healthy parsons. Visual inspection and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) were used to investigate the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) and the distribution of the tracer. The MMSE score of the PDD group was (27.5 +/- 2.4), (10 - 24), significantly lower than those of the non-PDD group [(27.5 +/- 2.4) (22 - 30)] and control group [(27.9 +/- 2.2) (21 - 30)] (F = 60.31, P = 0.000). There were no significant differences in Hoehn-Yahr staging and disease courses between the two PD groups (P > 0.05). Visual inspection showed that there were no significant focal hypometabolic areas in the imaging of the non-demented PD patients, while compared to the controls, the rCMRglc levels of the PDD patients decreased in bilateral superior parietal lobules (BA 7), inferior parietal lobules (BA 40, 39), superior frontal gyri (BA 6), middle frontal gyri (BA 6, 8, 9), middle temporal gyri (BA 21), cuneate lobes (BA 17, 18, 19), cingulate cortices (BA 31), lingual gyri (BA 19) basal ganglia, and thalamus. According to the severity of memory impairment and the onset of hallucination, the subtype of PDD was classified into memory impairment dominant group (MD) and hallucination dominant group (HD). The rCMRglc of MD subgroup decreased significantly in the parietotemporal association cortex, especially in the precuneus lobe. The rCMRglc of the HD subgroup decreased significantly in the occipital cortex. There were no significant differences in MMSE score and Hoehn-Yahr staging between the MD and HD groups (both P > 0.05), while the age of the HD subgroup was significantly lower, and the disease duration of the HD subgroup was significantly longer than those toe MD group (both P < 0.05). (18)F-FDG/PET imaging is helpful to the diagnosis of PDD and may help investigate the potential pathophysiology of PDD."}
{"id": "19076441", "title": "Brain glucose hypometabolism and oxidative stress in preclinical Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain glucose hypometabolism and oxidative stress in preclinical Alzheimer's disease. One of the main features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the severe reduction of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc). In vivo imaging using positron emission tomography with 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG-PET) demonstrates consistent and progressive CMRglc reductions in AD patients, the extent and topography of which correlate with symptom severity. Increasing evidence suggests that CMRglc reductions occur at the preclinical stages of AD. CMRglc reductions were observed on FDG-PET before the onset of disease in several groups of at-risk individuals, including patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), often a prodrome to AD; presymptomatic individuals carrying mutations responsible for early-onset familial AD; cognitively normal elderly individuals followed for several years until they declined to MCI and eventually to AD; normal, middle-aged individuals who expressed subjective memory complaints and were carriers of the apolipoprotein E epsilon-4 allele, a strong genetic risk factor for late-onset AD. However, the causes of the early metabolic dysfunction forerunning the onset of AD are not known. An increasing body of evidence indicates a deficient or altered energy metabolism that could change the overall oxidative microenvironment for neurons during the pathogenesis and progression of AD, leading to alterations in mitochondrial enzymes and in glucose metabolism in AD brain tissue. The present paper reviews findings that implicate hypometabolism and oxidative stress as crucial players in the initiation and progression of synaptic pathology in AD."}
{"id": "19073399", "title": "Three-year follow-up of a patient with early-onset Alzheimer's disease with presenilin-2 N141I mutation - case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Three-year follow-up of a patient with early-onset Alzheimer's disease with presenilin-2 N141I mutation - case report and review of the literature. Autosomal dominant early-onset Alzheimer disease (EOAD) is a heterogeneous condition that has been associated with mutations in 3 different genes: the amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PSEN1), and presenilin 2 (PSEN2) genes. Most cases are due to mutations in the PSEN1 gene, whereas mutations in the APP and PSEN2 genes are rare. Mutation analysis of the APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2 genes was performed. We herein report the case of a German EOAD patient with a family history of dementia and a missense mutation at codon 141 (N141I) of the PSEN2 gene. To our knowledge, this is the first German EOAD patient without a Volga-German ancestry and a positive family history for dementia carries the mutation PSEN-2 N141I. The patient came to our clinic for the first time when she was 47 years old. During the following 3 years, her Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score dropped from 28 to 0. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) was an early symptom that was already present during the first consultation. The concentration in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of tau-protein (1151 pg/ml) was increased, whereas the concentration of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta1-42) was decreased (335 pg/ml). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed only slight changes in the early stage of the disease and positron emission tomography with (18F) fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18F-FDG PET) demonstrated glucose reduction left parietal and in the precuneus region. Follow-up MRI and 18F-FDG PET studies showed progression of atrophy of the left entorhinal cortex with relative sparing of the hippocampus and progressive hypometabolism of both temporoparietal lobes and left frontal lobe."}
{"id": "19038899", "title": "Cognitive and cerebral metabolic effects of celecoxib versus placebo in people with age-related memory loss: randomized controlled study.", "content": "Cognitive and cerebral metabolic effects of celecoxib versus placebo in people with age-related memory loss: randomized controlled study. Because anti-inflammatory drugs may delay cognitive decline and influence brain metabolism in normal aging, the authors determined the effects of the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, on cognitive performance and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in nondemented volunteers with mild age-related memory decline. Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial with 18-months of exposure to study medication. University research institute. Eighty-eight subjects, aged 40-81 years (mean: 58.7, SD: 8.9 years) with mild self-reported memory complaints but normal memory performance scores were recruited from community physician referrals, media coverage, and advertising. Forty subjects completed the study. Daily celecoxib dose of 200 or 400 mg, or placebo. Standardized neuropsychological test battery and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) of FDG-PET scans performed during mental rest. Measures of cognition showed significant between-group differences in executive functioning (F [1, 30] = 5.06, p = 0.03) and language/semantic memory (F [1, 31] = 6.19, p = 0.02), favoring the celecoxib group compared with the placebo group. Concomitantly, FDG-PET scans demonstrated bilateral metabolic increases in prefrontal cortex in the celecoxib group in the vicinity of Brodmann's areas 9 and 10, but not in the placebo group. SPM analyses of the PET data pooled by treatment arm corresponded to a 6% increase in activity over pretreatment levels (p <0.01, after adjustment for multiple comparisons). These results suggest that daily celecoxib use may improve cognitive performance and increase regional brain metabolism in people with age-associated memory decline."}
{"id": "19030774", "title": "Atypical frontotemporal dementia as a new clinical phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease with the PrP-P102L mutation. Description of a previously unreported Italian family.", "content": "Atypical frontotemporal dementia as a new clinical phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease with the PrP-P102L mutation. Description of a previously unreported Italian family. To describe a new dementia phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) in a previously unreported Italian family. Design Longitudinal clinical and neuropsychological assessment, combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single positron emission tomography (SPECT) and molecular genetic studies. Setting Neuropsychology Laboratory, and Division of Neuropathology and Neurology, \"C. Besta\" National Neurological Institute. Patients and participants Three members of the family. Measurements and results. Standardised neuropsychological tests were used to determine cognitive patterns. The proband had a history of primary dementia characterised by loss of initiative, planning, behaviour control, awareness, language and memory; the two relatives suffered from progressive ataxia. MRI of the demented patient revealed brain atrophy with a hyperintense signal in the frontal cortex; SPECT revealed decreased perfusion in the left temporal and parietal cortex and left thalamus. The two ataxic patients showed cerebellar atrophy with no signs of altered perfusion. Analysis of the PRNP gene showed a proline/leucine substitution at codon 102 in all three patients, associated with methionine/valine heterozygosity at the polymorphic codon 129. Conclusions Primary dementia with prominent frontotemporal signs is a new phenotypical expression of P102L-related GSS that coexists in the same family with the ataxic form of the disease. This remarkable variability suggests that still unidentified genetic or acquired factors may modulate the manifestations of GSS. Genetic examination of the PRNP should be included in the diagnostic work-up of patients with poorly classifiable dementia."}
{"id": "18997034", "title": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Parkinson disease with dementia after cholinesterase inhibitor therapy.", "content": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Parkinson disease with dementia after cholinesterase inhibitor therapy. We investigated changes in cerebral glucose metabolism after cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) therapy in patients with Parkinson disease dementia (PDD) to determine whether cognitive improvements would be reflected in changes of cerebral metabolic patterns, thus offering insight into the neural substrate of cognitive dysfunction in patients with PDD. We performed a serial PET study before (baseline) and after ChEI therapy on 10 patients with PDD, using statistical parametric mapping. Additionally, covariance analysis was performed to extract regions in which increased change in regional cerebral metabolism correlated significantly with increased Mini-Mental State Examination scores. The statistical parametric mapping analysis indicated that significantly increased cerebral metabolism after ChEI therapy, compared with at baseline, was most evident in the left angular gyrus extending to the supramarginal area and left superior and middle frontal gyri. Additionally, cerebral metabolism was significantly increased in the right superior frontal and left middle orbitofrontal gyri. In contrast, the right fusiform gyrus showed significantly decreased metabolism after ChEI, compared with at baseline. In the correlation analysis, improvements in Mini-Mental State Examination scores after ChEI treatment were significantly associated with increased cerebral metabolism in the left supramarginal, orbitofrontal, and cingulate areas. Our data suggest that prefrontal and parietal association areas may be relevant structures for the pharmacologic response to ChEI in patients with PDD."}
{"id": "18991338", "title": "Abeta amyloid and glucose metabolism in three variants of primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Abeta amyloid and glucose metabolism in three variants of primary progressive aphasia. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is found at autopsy in up to one third of patients with primary progressive aphasia (PPA), but clinical features that predict AD pathology in PPA are not well defined. We studied the relationships between language presentation, Abeta amyloidosis, and glucose metabolism in three PPA variants using [11C]-Pittsburgh compound B ([11C]PIB) and [18F]-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ([18F]FDG-PET). Patients meeting PPA criteria (N = 15) were classified as logopenic aphasia (LPA), progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), or semantic dementia (SD) based on language testing. [11C]PIB distribution volume ratios were calculated using Logan graphical analysis (cerebellar reference). [18F]FDG images were normalized to pons. Partial volume correction was applied. Elevated cortical PIB (by visual inspection) was more common in LPA (4/4 patients) than in PNFA (1/6) and SD (1/5) (p < 0.02). In PIB-positive PPA, PIB uptake was diffuse and indistinguishable from the pattern in matched AD patients (n = 10). FDG patterns were focal and varied by PPA subtype, with left temporoparietal hypometabolism in LPA, left frontal hypometabolism in PNFA, and left anterior temporal hypometabolism in SD. FDG uptake was significant asymmetric (favoring left hypometabolism) in PPA (p < 0.005) but not in AD. LPA is associated with Abeta amyloidosis, suggesting that subclassification of PPA based on language features can help predict the likelihood of AD pathology. Language phenotype in PPA is closely related to metabolic changes that are focal and anatomically distinct between subtypes, but not to amyloid deposition patterns that are diffuse and similar to AD."}
{"id": "18984958", "title": "Activities of daily living, cerebral glucose metabolism, and cognitive reserve in Lewy body and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Activities of daily living, cerebral glucose metabolism, and cognitive reserve in Lewy body and Parkinson's disease. (1) To investigate the neural substrate of impaired activities of daily living (ADL) in Lewy body-associated disorders, such as dementia with Lewy bodies, classical Parkinson's disease, and Parkinson's disease dementia, and (2) to explore the effect of education on the relationship between cerebral metabolic changes and ADL performance. Fifty-four patients with Lewy body-associated disorders underwent an extensive clinical evaluation including cerebral positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose scanning. First, those brain areas were identified where ADL performance and glucose metabolism were significantly correlated. Second, brain regions were detected where the association between metabolic changes and ADL performance differed significantly between patients with a low and a high educational background. There was a significant association between glucose hypometabolism and impaired ADL performance in the prefrontal, temporoparietal, and occipital association cortices and the precuneus. However, there was a significantly stronger association between hypometabolism and impaired ADL in the low education group compared with the high education group in the right middle occipital gyrus. The study suggests (1) that brain metabolic alterations are significantly associated with the loss of everyday functioning in Lewy body-associated disorders and (2) that education modifies this association."}
{"id": "18974648", "title": "Comparison of the usefulness of brain perfusion SPECT and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Comparison of the usefulness of brain perfusion SPECT and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Supportive features in the diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) include occipital hypoperfusion and decreased cardiac uptake of (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG). In this study, we performed both brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in the same subjects and evaluated their sensitivity to detect the characteristic features of DLB. Twenty-five patients with probable DLB (76.8 +/- 5.1 years old, 10 male) underwent (99m)Tc-ethylcysteinate dimer brain perfusion SPECT and (123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. The results of SPECT were analyzed using a qualitative analysis program, easy Z score imaging system (eZIS), and an automated quantitative analysis program, 3DSRT. Qualitative analysis using eZIS demonstrated occipital hypoperfusion in 17 subjects (68%). The quantified mean blood perfusion in the occipital segment on the 3DSRT template was 40.7 +/- 5.03 ml/100 g/min (right) and 40.5 +/- 5.38 ml/100 g/min (left), and in 19 DLB patients these values were below the normal limit. Twenty-four of 25 subjects (96%) had decreased cardiac MIBG uptake in the delayed image. MIBG myocardial scintigraphy was superior to brain perfusion SPECT in detecting a characteristic feature of DLB. Our results suggest that combining SPECT and MIBG scintigraphy could increase the accuracy of clinical diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "18936426", "title": "Education and occupation as proxies for reserve in aMCI converters and AD: FDG-PET evidence.", "content": "Education and occupation as proxies for reserve in aMCI converters and AD: FDG-PET evidence. Previous reports have shown that higher education is associated with more severe brain pathology in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), suggesting that these individuals have a functional reserve provided by education, which masks the clinical expression of a higher degree of neurodegeneration. It is unknown if a similar reserve mechanism exists in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The aim of this study was to assess the impact of education and occupation on brain glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) measured with FDG-PET in aMCI and in a very large sample of subjects with probable AD (pAD). A total of 242 patients with pAD, 72 with aMCI, and 144 healthy controls participated in the study. At follow-up, 21 subjects with aMCI progressed to AD. A regression analysis was conducted (SPM2), with education and occupation as independent variables, and rCMRglc as dependent variable, adjusting for demographic data, global cognitive status, and neuropsychological scores. The analysis showed a significant association between higher education/occupation and lower rCMRglc in posterior temporoparietal cortex and precuneus in pAD and aMCI converters, and no correlation in aMCI nonconverters and healthy controls. This means that, when submitted to FDG-PET for diagnostic evaluation, pAD and aMCI converters with higher education/occupation had, for comparable cognitive impairment, a more severe rCMRglc reduction than the ones with lower education/occupation. This study suggests that education and occupation may be proxies for brain functional reserve, reducing the severity and delaying the clinical expression of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology. The results in aMCI converters suggest that functional reserve is already at play in the predementia phase of AD."}
{"id": "18852360", "title": "Fluorine 18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Fluorine 18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease."}
{"id": "18852340", "title": "Biopsy support for the validity of Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography with a twist.", "content": "Biopsy support for the validity of Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography with a twist."}
{"id": "18843572", "title": "The role of structural and functional imaging in parkinsonian states with a description of PET technology.", "content": "The role of structural and functional imaging in parkinsonian states with a description of PET technology. In this article, after providing a description of the technique of brain positron emission tomography (PET), the review focuses on the application of PET and other recent advances of neuroimaging in understanding the structural, pathophysiological, and pharmacological changes associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). In early cases of PD, demonstration of the presence of nigral structural abnormalities with transcranial sonography and striatal dopaminergic dysfunction with functional imaging provides a rationale for the use of dopaminergic medications. The presence of altered striatal signal with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) or reduced lentiform nucleus glucose metabolism with fluorodeoxyglucose PET suggests the presence of an atypical PD variant. Finally, the value of functional imaging as a biomarker for following the progression of PD and for understanding mechanisms of dementia when present is debated."}
{"id": "18841015", "title": "Neural correlates of the Clock Drawing Test performance in Alzheimer's disease: a FDG-PET study.", "content": "Neural correlates of the Clock Drawing Test performance in Alzheimer's disease: a FDG-PET study. This study aimed to identify the functional neuroanatomical correlates of impaired clock drawing test (CDT) performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The CDT was administered to 71 patients with AD, and regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMglc) was measured by positron emission tomography (PET). Correlations between CDT scores and rCMglc were examined on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Significant positive correlations were found between CDT performance and rCMglc in the right inferior parietal lobule and right posterior cingulate cortex. These results provide the first PET evidence that poor CDT performance in patients with AD is closely related to the functional decline in the right hemisphere, especially the right parietal cortex."}
{"id": "18833506", "title": "[Familial Alzheimer's disease with presenilin 2 N141I mutation. A case report].", "content": "[Familial Alzheimer's disease with presenilin 2 N141I mutation. A case report]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Approximately 0.5 per cent of all AD is caused by single major gene mutations and autosomal dominant inheritance. These familial types with early-onset (EOFAD) usually display dementia before the age of 60. Such mutations have been found in the gene encoding amyloid precursor protein (APP), and in the genes encoding presenilin 1 (PSEN1) or presenilin 2 (PSEN2). We herein report the case of a German patient with a EOFAD and a missense mutation at codon 141 (N141I) of the PSEN2 gene. The patient came to our psychiatric clinic for the first time when she was 49 years old. During the following 3 years, her Mini-Mental-State-Examination (MMSE) score dropped from 14 to 0 points. Positron emission tomography with [18F] Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG PET) demonstrated glucose reduction left parietal and in the pre-cuneus region. Follow-up 18F-FDG PET studies showed progressive hypometabolism of both temporoparietal lobes and left frontal lobe."}
{"id": "18828700", "title": "Continuous monitoring of cerebrovascular pressure reactivity in patients with head injury.", "content": "Continuous monitoring of cerebrovascular pressure reactivity in patients with head injury. Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity is the ability of cerebral vessels to respond to changes in transmural pressure. A cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index (PRx) can be determined as the moving correlation coefficient between mean intracranial pressure (ICP) and mean arterial blood pressure. The authors analyzed a database consisting of 398 patients with head injuries who underwent continuous monitoring of cerebrovascular pressure reactivity. In 298 patients, the PRx was compared with a transcranial Doppler ultrasonography assessment of cerebrovascular autoregulation (the mean index [Mx]), in 17 patients with the PET-assessed static rate of autoregulation, and in 22 patients with the cerebral metabolic rate for O(2). Patient outcome was assessed 6 months after injury. There was a positive and significant association between the PRx and Mx (R(2) = 0.36, p < 0.001) and with the static rate of autoregulation (R(2) = 0.31, p = 0.02). A PRx > 0.35 was associated with a high mortality rate (> 50%). The PRx showed significant deterioration in refractory intracranial hypertension, was correlated with outcome, and was able to differentiate patients with good outcome, moderate disability, severe disability, and death. The graph of PRx compared with cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) indicated a U-shaped curve, suggesting that too low and too high CPP was associated with a disturbance in pressure reactivity. Such an optimal CPP was confirmed in individual cases and a greater difference between current and optimal CPP was associated with worse outcome (for patients who, on average, were treated below optimal CPP [R(2) = 0.53, p < 0.001] and for patients whose mean CPP was above optimal CPP [R(2) = -0.40, p < 0.05]). Following decompressive craniectomy, pressure reactivity initially worsened (median -0.03 [interquartile range -0.13 to 0.06] to 0.14 [interquartile range 0.12-0.22]; p < 0.01) and improved in the later postoperative course. After therapeutic hypothermia, in 17 (70.8%) of 24 patients in whom rewarming exceeded the brain temperature threshold of 37 degrees C, ICP remained stable, but the average PRx increased to 0.32 (p < 0.0001), indicating significant derangement in cerebrovascular reactivity. The PRx is a secondary index derived from changes in ICP and arterial blood pressure and can be used as a surrogate marker of cerebrovascular impairment. In view of an autoregulation-guided CPP therapy, a continuous determination of a PRx is feasible, but its value has to be evaluated in a prospective controlled trial."}
{"id": "18810603", "title": "Effect of citalopram in treating hypersexuality in an Alzheimer's disease case.", "content": "Effect of citalopram in treating hypersexuality in an Alzheimer's disease case. Hypersexuality in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been rarely investigated. Hypersexual behaviours should be classified as a sexual obsession and included in the \"obsessive-compulsive disorder-like\" spectrum. Hypersexuality has no proven treatment, although reports have described reductions of this behaviour using antiandrogen treatment, H2-receptor antagonists and antipsychotic drugs. Serotonin reuptake blockers seem to be effective in the treatment of sexual obsessions or compulsions and less on paraphilic disturbances. We present the case of a 54-year-old male patient with Alzheimer's disease with compulsive sexual behaviour as reported by his wife. A 18-FDG PET scan evidenced prevalent hypometabolism of the right hemisphere, congruent with neuropsychological evaluation. Donepezil, 10 mg per day, produced cognitive improvement but no effects on sexual behaviour. Therapy with SSRI was subsequently started (citalopram): after 60 days, the patient showed improvement in both the compulsive pursuit of sex acts and the level of frustration when refused."}
{"id": "18803648", "title": "CSF total and phosphorylated tau protein, regional glucose metabolism and dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "CSF total and phosphorylated tau protein, regional glucose metabolism and dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease. We investigated associations between severity of cognitive impairment, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of total-tau (t-tau) protein and tau phosphorylated at threonin 181 (p-tau(181)) and regional glucose metabolism measured with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). In 38 patients (mean age 66.5 +/- 8.0 years) with AD, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores were evaluated and CSF levels of t-tau and p-tau(181) measured. All patients underwent an 18F-FDG-PET scan. Image analysis including correlation analysis and principal component analysis (PCA) were performed using SPM5 and VINCI. Dementia severity (MMSE 21.2 +/- 4.9) correlated well with metabolic impairment especially in left hemisphere association areas that are typically affected in patients with AD (e.g. inferior parietal lobule, r = 0.512; medial temporal gyrus, r = 0.478; inferior temporal gyrus, r = 0.488; precuneus, r = 0.468; PCA: r = 0.639, F = 7.751; all P < 0.001). There were no associations between t-tau and p-tau(181) with dementia severity and only weak correlations between t-tau and cerebral glucose metabolism (superior parietal gyrus, r = -0.325, P < 0.05; precentral gyrus r = -0.418, P < 0.01; amygdala r = -0.362, P < 0.05). No correlations were found between p-tau(181) and regional hypometabolism in FDG-PET. MMSE and CSF t-tau represent different aspects of disease severity. Whilst MMSE is closely related to impaired cerebral glucose metabolism, CSF t-tau is less closely related and appears to be less well suited for assessment of disease progression."}
{"id": "18779428", "title": "Correlating cerebral hypometabolism with future memory decline in subsequent converters to amnestic pre-mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Correlating cerebral hypometabolism with future memory decline in subsequent converters to amnestic pre-mild cognitive impairment. Before symptomatic memory loss, healthy apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) (OMIM 104310) carriers demonstrate accelerated longitudinal decline on memory tests, suggesting the existence of a transitional state between normal aging and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), which we have called amnestic pre-MCI. To support our neuropsychological construct of pre-MCI by characterizing and comparing the relationship between measurements of baseline regional hypometabolism and subsequent rates of memory decline in a group of individuals with neuropsychologically defined asymptomatic memory decline (pre-MCI group) and in nondecliners after controlling for APOE epsilon4 gene dose. Longitudinal study. Academic medical center. Of 139 healthy individuals in the Arizona APOE Cohort aged 50 to 69 years who underwent longitudinal neuropsychological testing and fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) since 1994, 10 met our criteria for amnestic pre-MCI, and 15 showed no decline. Correlations between lower regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (CMRgl) and rates of verbal memory test decline that occurred at a mean of 41 months after baseline FDG-PET using an automated brain mapping algorithm (SPM5). The pre-MCI and nondecliner groups did not differ in mean (SD) age (56.8 [4.8] years), education (16.5 [2.3] years), sex (19 women [76%]), or APOE epsilon4 carrier status (12 epsilon4 carriers [48%)]. After controlling for APOE epsilon4 gene dose, the pre-MCI group had significant correlations between lower baseline CMRgl in the posterior cingulate, bilateral parietal, and left prefrontal regions (known to be preferentially affected by Alzheimer disease) and subsequent verbal memory decline. Nondecliners had significant correlations bilaterally in the posterior and midcingulate cortices. Correlations in the left parietal, left temporal, and bilateral frontal regions were significantly greater in the pre-MCI group than those in the nondecliner group. Individuals with amnestic pre-MCI showed significantly greater correlations between cerebral hypometabolism and subsequent long-term memory decline than nondecliners in Alzheimer disease-affected brain regions."}
{"id": "18769307", "title": "Fluordeoxyglucose-PET study in first-episode schizophrenic patients during the hallucinatory state, after remission and during linguistic-auditory activation.", "content": "Fluordeoxyglucose-PET study in first-episode schizophrenic patients during the hallucinatory state, after remission and during linguistic-auditory activation. We tested the hypothesis that endogenous auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) involve activation of auditory/linguistic association cortices that are usually activated by externally presented speech. Nine neuroleptic-naive patients with first-episode schizophrenia (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders-IV criteria) with prominent AVH underwent three PET scans using F-fluordeoxyglucose (FDG): (i) shortly after presentation, while experiencing prominent and frequent AVH; (ii) after medication-induced remission (R), using a stable dose of risperidone; (iii) also in remission, during bilateral linguistic auditory activation (LAA) induced by spoken text mimicking the content of the hallucinations experienced while the first PET was performed, using headphones. PET scans were acquired using an Advanced-Nxi Scanner (GE Healthcare). Intrasubject realignment, spatial normalization and statistical analysis of PET images were carried out using statistical parametric mapping. Differences between AVH and R and between LAA and R were statistically evaluated using a voxel-wise paired t-test. A voxel level threshold of P<0.01 was used to determine which regions underwent the most significant changes in F-FDG uptake. During AVH, patients demonstrated a significant activation of the supplementary motor area, anterior cingulum, medial superior frontal area and cerebelum. Activation was also observed in the left superior frontal area, right superior temporal pole and right orbitofrontal region. During LAA, greater FDG uptake was observed in the right and left superior and middle temporal cortices, left hippocampus and parahippocampal regions. Our findings show a different pattern of regional cerebral glucose metabolism between AVH and physiological auditory activation. This feature does not support the hypothesis that AVH in acute schizophrenic patients reflects an abnormal activation of auditory-linguistic pathways. However, it does suggest that cortical regions implicated in the generation of inner speech could be involved."}
{"id": "18707012", "title": "BDNF is a novel marker of cognitive function in ageing women: the DR's EXTRA Study.", "content": "BDNF is a novel marker of cognitive function in ageing women: the DR's EXTRA Study. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is one of the key molecules modulating brain plasticity. While low circulating levels of BDNF have been suggested to predispose to Alzheimer's disease, very little data are available on its association with cognitive function in general population. We evaluated the association between plasma BDNF levels and cognition in a representative population sample of ageing men and women. The subjects (n=1389) were participants of the Dose-Responses to Exercise Training (DR's EXTRA) Study and represent a random sample of Eastern Finnish people (684 men and 705 women), 57-79 years of age at baseline of the study. Plasma BDNF levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Cognitive function was evaluated using the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) neuropsychological test battery. Women had a higher mean (+/-SEM) plasma BDNF level than men (1721+/-55vs. 1495+/-54pg/ml, P<0.001). In women, 1 SD decrease in BDNF increased the risk for a low score in Naming Test by 53% (95% CI 1.21-1.92, P<0.001), in Mini-Mental State Examination by 63% (95% CI 1.21-2.20, P=0.001), in Word List Memory by 56% (95% CI 1.08-2.26, P=0.019), in Word List Recall by 50% (95% CI 1.10-2.05, P=0.010), in Word List Saving by 49% (95% CI 1.12-1.99, P=0.007), and in Word List Recognition by 64% (95% CI 1.19-2.25, P=0.002). Data were adjusted for age, education, depression, impaired glucose metabolism, cardiovascular disease, antihypertensive medication, lipid lowering medication, use of sex hormones, smoking, alcohol consumption, storing time of plasma in the freezer and platelet count. BDNF was not associated with cognition in men. Present data suggest that plasma BDNF is a biomarker of impaired memory and general cognitive function in ageing women."}
{"id": "18695050", "title": "Assessment of beta-amyloid in a frontal cortical brain biopsy specimen and by positron emission tomography with carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B.", "content": "Assessment of beta-amyloid in a frontal cortical brain biopsy specimen and by positron emission tomography with carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B. To compare carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ([11C]PiB) positron emission tomography (PET) findings in patients with and without Alzheimer disease lesions in frontal cortical biopsy specimens. Cross-sectional study of [11C]PiB PET findings in patients with or without beta-amyloid (Abeta) aggregates in frontal cortical biopsy specimens. Two university hospitals in Finland. Patients Ten patients who had undergone intraventricular pressure monitoring with a frontal cortical biopsy (evaluated for Abeta aggregates and hyperphosphorylated tau) for suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus. [11C]PiB PET and evaluation for cognitive impairment using a battery of neuropsychological tests. Immunohistochemical evaluation for Abeta aggregates and hyperphosphorylated tau in the frontal cortical biopsy specimen and [11C]PiB PET. In patients with Abeta aggregates in the frontal cortical biopsy specimen, PET imaging revealed higher [11C]PiB uptake (P < .05) in the frontal, parietal, and lateral temporal cortices and in the striatum as compared with the patients without frontal Abeta deposits. Our study supports the use of noninvasive [11C]PiB PET in the assessment of Abeta deposition in the brain. Large prospective studies are required to verify whether [11C]PiB PET will be a diagnostic aid, particularly in early Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "18661129", "title": "Comparison of grey matter and metabolic reductions in frontotemporal dementia using FDG-PET and voxel-based morphometric MR studies.", "content": "Comparison of grey matter and metabolic reductions in frontotemporal dementia using FDG-PET and voxel-based morphometric MR studies. The aim of this study was to investigate the regional differences between the morphologic and functional changes in the same patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) using statistical parametric mapping and voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Thirteen FTD patients (mean age, 64.9 years old; mean MMSE score, 17.7), 20 sex-matched Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (mean age, 65.0 years old; mean MMSE score, 17.5), and 20 normal volunteers (mean age, 65.2 years old; mean MMSE score, 29.0) underwent both [(18)F]FDG positron emission tomography and three-dimensional spoiled gradient echo MRI. Statistical parametric mapping was used to conduct a VBM analysis of the morphologic data, which were compared voxel by voxel with the results of a similar analysis of glucose metabolic data. FTD patients showed decreased grey matter volume and decreased glucose metabolism in the frontal lobe and anterior temporal lobe. In addition, there was a clear asymmetry in grey matter volume in FTD patients by the VBM analysis while the glucose metabolic data showed little asymmetry. In AD patients, glucose metabolic reduction occurred in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri and parietal lobules while grey matter density decreased the least in the same patients. In FTD, metabolic and morphologic changes occur in the bilateral frontal lobe and temporal lobe with a limited asymmetry whereas there was considerable discordance in the AD group."}
{"id": "18648805", "title": "Principal component analysis of FDG PET in amnestic MCI.", "content": "Principal component analysis of FDG PET in amnestic MCI. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the combined accuracy of episodic memory performance and (18)F-FDG PET in identifying patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) converting to Alzheimer's disease (AD), aMCI non-converters, and controls. Thirty-three patients with aMCI and 15 controls (CTR) were followed up for a mean of 21 months. Eleven patients developed AD (MCI/AD) and 22 remained with aMCI (MCI/MCI). (18)F-FDG PET volumetric regions of interest underwent principal component analysis (PCA) that identified 12 principal components (PC), expressed by coarse component scores (CCS). Discriminant analysis was performed using the significant PCs and episodic memory scores. PCA highlighted relative hypometabolism in PC5, including bilateral posterior cingulate and left temporal pole, and in PC7, including the bilateral orbitofrontal cortex, both in MCI/MCI and MCI/AD vs CTR. PC5 itself plus PC12, including the left lateral frontal cortex (LFC: BAs 44, 45, 46, 47), were significantly different between MCI/AD and MCI/MCI. By a three-group discriminant analysis, CTR were more accurately identified by PET-CCS + delayed recall score (100%), MCI/MCI by PET-CCS + either immediate or delayed recall scores (91%), while MCI/AD was identified by PET-CCS alone (82%). PET increased by 25% the correct allocations achieved by memory scores, while memory scores increased by 15% the correct allocations achieved by PET. Combining memory performance and (18)F-FDG PET yielded a higher accuracy than each single tool in identifying CTR and MCI/MCI. The PC containing bilateral posterior cingulate and left temporal pole was the hallmark of MCI/MCI patients, while the PC including the left LFC was the hallmark of conversion to AD."}
{"id": "18631997", "title": "Realizing the potential of positron emission tomography with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose to improve the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Realizing the potential of positron emission tomography with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose to improve the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) thus far rarely has been used to advance the development of new treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Now that FDG-PET with standard acquisition protocols for dementia is widely available, change in cerebral glucose metabolism is a feasible outcome variable for clinical drug trials. Individual analysis of FDG-PET results also might prove valuable. FDG-PET can detect metabolic changes very early in the course of AD and identify subjects for earlier treatment. FDG-PET reliably distinguishes AD from frontotemporal dementia so that only those most likely to benefit are enrolled in trials. Finally, objectively identifying phenotypic variations of AD with FDG-PET might have pathogenic and prognostic implications that can be used for personalized treatment approaches. The judicious use of FDG-PET is needed to accelerate the evaluation of promising new drugs and more rationally target treatments for dementing diseases."}
{"id": "18631432", "title": "Post-operative changes of cerebral circulation and metabolism in the acute stage of low-grade aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Post-operative changes of cerebral circulation and metabolism in the acute stage of low-grade aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Pre- and post-operative cerebral circulation and metabolism were evaluated in patients with low-grade acute aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) who underwent early surgery to investigate the effects on brain dysfunction. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed to measure the regional cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and cerebral blood volume in four patients (one male and three females, mean age: 60.3 years) with low-grade SAH within 30 hours of onset. Post-operative PET was performed on the seventh post-operative day. No patient suffered clinical deterioration during the study. Pre-operative PET scans demonstrated significant global reduction of CBF and CMRO2, compared to 16 normal control subjects, and no significant change in OEF. CBF and CMRO2 reduction post-operatively improved to the normal control values. Post-operative OEF was significantly increased compared to the normal control value. Patients with low-grade SAH have impairment of cerebral circulation and metabolism in the acute period, which improves after surgery. Early surgery for low-grade SAH, necessary to avoid rerupture of the aneurysm, did not worsen the impairment of cerebral circulation and metabolism. However, measures to protect the brain from perioperative damage are necessary to achieve the optimum outcome."}
{"id": "18625665", "title": "Neurobehavioral profile and brain imaging study of the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome in childhood.", "content": "Neurobehavioral profile and brain imaging study of the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome in childhood. The 22q13.3 deletion syndrome (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man No. 606232) is a neurodevelopmental disorder that includes hypotonia, severely impaired development of speech and language, autistic-like behavior, and minor dysmorphic features. Although the number of reported cases is increasing, the 22q13.3 deletion remains underdiagnosed because of failure in recognizing the clinical phenotype and detecting the 22qter deletion by routine chromosome analyses. Our goal is to contribute to the description of the neurobehavioral phenotype and brain abnormalities of this microdeletional syndrome. We assessed neuromotor, sensory, language, communication, and social development and performed cerebral MRI and study of regional cerebral blood flow measured by positron emission tomography in 8 children carrying the 22q13.3 deletion. Despite variability in expression and severity, the children shared a common developmental profile characterized by hypotonia, sleep disorders, and poor response to their environment in early infancy; expressive language deficit contrasting with emergence of social reciprocity from ages approximately 3 to 5 years; sensory processing dysfunction; and neuromotor disorders. Brain MRI findings were normal or showed a thin or morphologically atypical corpus callosum. Positron emission tomography study detected a localized dysfunction of the left temporal polar lobe and amygdala hypoperfusion. The developmental course of the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome belongs to pervasive developmental disorders but is distinct from autism. An improved description of the natural history of this syndrome should help in recognizing this largely underdiagnosed condition."}
{"id": "18606218", "title": "Effects of Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan on aged rats.", "content": "Effects of Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan on aged rats. Fuzhisan (FZS), a Chinese herbal complex prescription, has been used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) for more than 15 years. Previous studies showed that FZS enhanced the cognitive ability in AD patients and AD model rats. FZS modulated the impaired cellular functions, and attenuated the damage caused by beta-amyloid protein, dose-dependently regulated and ameliorated the cholinergic functions of the Abeta(25-35)-induced AD-model mice. The SPECT imaging revealed that FZS improved the blood flow of the frontal and temporal lobes and the callosal gyrus in AD patients. However, little investigation of the effects of FZS on the naturally aged rats was reported. The underlying mechanism also remains to be explored. Recently we investigated the effects of the aqueous extract of FZS on the cognitive functions of the aged rats and the pharmacological basis for its therapeutic efficacy. The results showed a significant improvement made by FZS (0.3, 0.6, and 1.2 g/kg/d) for impaired cognitive functions of the aged rats. The rats manifested a shortened latency in Morris water maze test after intra-gavage administration (ig) of FZS for 30 consecutive days. The micro-positron emission tomography (microPET) using (18)F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ((18)F-FDG) as the tracer demonstrated that FZS promoted the glucose metabolism in the whole brains especially the temporal and parietal regions in the aged rats. The spectrophotometry and Western blot showed that FZS obviously increased the activity and the production of choline O-acetyltransferase (ChAT, EC 2.3.1.6) and the acetylcholine (ACh) contents in the hippocampus, thus regulated and ameliorated the impaired cholinergic functions of the aged rats. The therapeutical effects of FZS on the learning and memory of the aged rats were dose-dependent. The mechanism of action of FZS in ameliorating the memory dysfunction of the aged rats is ascribed to the reinforcement of the function of the cholinergic system and the enhancement of the glucose metabolism in the brains. The results of this study, together with a survey of the findings in the clinical treatment with FZS suggest that FZS may not merely alleviate the symptoms of the dementia, but may also augment the production of the neurotransmitter ACh and the energy supply in the brain to build up fitness of the patients. FZS may be beneficial for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease or cognitive impairment in old people."}
{"id": "18599962", "title": "Alzheimer's disease prevalence can be lowered with non-invasive testing.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease prevalence can be lowered with non-invasive testing. Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease are reported to be major risk factors to Alzheimer's disease (AD). These risk factors mainly affect the elderly (over age 60) and previously were believed to only promote vascular dementia (VaD). Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular pathology involving structural lesions of the heart and carotid or vertebral artery stenosis stemming from intima media thickening or vessel plaque formation can insidiously reduce blood flow to the brain. Since heart and carotid artery disease are common findings in elderly patients and can provoke chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, we submit that individuals with even very mild memory complaints should undergo screening using echocardiography and carotid Doppler ultrasound. These non-invasive, safe, cost-effective ultrasound techniques can often detect correctable or treatable early lesions involving the carotid arteries and the heart that contribute to cerebral hypoperfusion. Inasmuch as cerebral hypoperfusion can be a pathophysiologic trigger of AD, its prevention or attenuation should tangibly reverse or at least delay the onset and impact of severe cognitive meltdown. This clinical approach may have an important impact in reducing the number of new AD and VaD cases and lessen the catastrophic socio-economic burden these dementias are expected to have on the US healthcare system in the near future."}
{"id": "18586865", "title": "Longitudinal multimodal imaging in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease: a pilot study with memantine.", "content": "Longitudinal multimodal imaging in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease: a pilot study with memantine. To study the feasibility of multimodal neuroimaging in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease (AD) and to estimate the size of possible treatment effects of memantine on potential functional, structural and metabolic biomarkers of disease progression. In this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study, 36 patients with moderate AD received 52 weeks of memantine (20 mg/day) or placebo. Patients were re-evaluated after 26 and 52 weeks to measure the change from baseline in several outcome measures including global and regional glucose metabolism, total brain and hippocampal volumes, as well as chemical shift imaging-derived global and regional N-acetylaspartate and myoinositol concentrations. In the total population, global glucose metabolism decreased by 2.3% (p<0.01), total brain volume by 2.1% (p<0.001) and hippocampal volume by 2.7% (p<0.01) after 52 weeks. Chemical shift imaging (CSI) spectra were severely affected by patient-induced artefacts and highly variable. Patients receiving memantine showed less decline in glucose metabolism in all brain areas than patients on placebo. Their loss of hippocampal volume was substantially smaller (2.4% vs 4.0%). No between-group differences were seen for changes in total brain volume. The results support the use of multimodal imaging including MRI and positron emission tomography (PET) to monitor the progression of moderate AD. CSI yielded unreliable longitudinal results. The data suggest that memantine has potentially protective effects in AD and they can be used for planning larger confirmatory studies on the cerebral effects of memantine."}
{"id": "18566819", "title": "Regional analysis of FDG and PIB-PET images in normal aging, mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional analysis of FDG and PIB-PET images in normal aging, mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer's disease. The objective of the study is to compare the diagnostic value of regional sampling of the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose metabolism (MRglc) using [18F]-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose ([18F]FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) and amyloid-beta pathology using Pittsburgh Compound-B ([11C]PIB)-PET in the evaluation of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) compared to normal elderly (NL). AD patients, 7 NL, 13 MCI, and 17, received clinical, neuropsychological, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), FDG, and PIB-PET exams. Parametric images of PIB uptake and MRglc were sampled using automated regions-of-interest (ROI). AD showed global MRglc reductions, and MCI showed reduced hippocampus (HIP) and inferior parietal lobe (IP) MRglc compared to NL. On PIB, AD patients showed significantly increased uptake in the middle frontal gyrus (MFG), posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), and IP (ps < 0.05). PIB uptake in MCI subjects was either AD or NL-like. HIP MRglc and MFG PIB uptake were the best discriminators of NL from MCI and NL from AD. These two best measures showed high diagnostic agreement for AD (94%) and poor agreement for MCI (54%). For the NL vs. MCI discrimination, combining the two best measures increased the accuracy for PIB (75%) and for FDG (85%) to 90%. For AD, the pattern of regional involvement for FDG and PIB differ, but both techniques show high diagnostic accuracy and 94% case by case agreement. In the classification of NL and MCI, FDG is superior to PIB, but there is only 54% agreement at a case level. Combining the two modalities improves the diagnostic accuracy for MCI."}
{"id": "18550759", "title": "Relationships between hippocampal atrophy, white matter disruption, and gray matter hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationships between hippocampal atrophy, white matter disruption, and gray matter hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease. In early Alzheimer's disease (AD), the hippocampal region is the area most severely affected by cellular and structural alterations, yet glucose hypometabolism predominates in the posterior association cortex and posterior cingulate gyrus. One prevalent hypothesis to account for this discrepancy is that posterior cingulate hypometabolism results from disconnection from the hippocampus through disruption of the cingulum bundle. However, only partial and indirect evidence currently supports this hypothesis. Thus, using structural magnetic resonance imaging and 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography in 18 patients with early AD, we assessed the relationships between hippocampal atrophy, white matter integrity, and gray matter metabolism by means of a whole-brain voxel-based correlative approach. We found that hippocampal atrophy is specifically related to cingulum bundle disruption, which is in turn highly correlated to hypometabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex but also of the middle cingulate gyrus, thalamus, mammillary bodies, parahippocampal gyrus, and hippocampus (all part of Papez's circuit), as well as the right temporoparietal associative cortex. These results provide the first direct evidence supporting the disconnection hypothesis as a major factor contributing to the early posterior hypometabolism in AD. Disruption of the cingulum bundle also appears to relate to hypometabolism in a large connected network over and above the posterior cingulate cortex, encompassing the whole memory circuit of Papez (consistent with the key location of this white matter tract within this loop) and also, but indirectly, the right posterior association cortex."}
{"id": "18500575", "title": "FDG-PET findings in patients with galactosaemia.", "content": "FDG-PET findings in patients with galactosaemia. Despite treatment with a galactose-restricted diet, many galactosaemia patients develop lifelong cognitive impairment, speech abnormalities and a gamut of neurological problems including cognitive impairment and tremors. No study has explored changes in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with galactosaemia. Five patients with galactosaemia had ages ranging from 20 to 40 years (mean age 28 years) and eight similarly aged controls received brain [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scans. PET scans were analysed using a previously validated template methodology of regions of interest (ROIs). Count ratios for each anatomical ROI were compared between the galactosaemic patients and the healthy controls. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) software was also used to further analyse the data. ROI analysis showed that galactosaemic patients had significant bilateral decreases in cerebral glucose metabolism in the superior temporal gyrus, medial occipital lobe, parietal lobe, cerebellum, calcarine cortex, superior frontal cortex, and superior parietal cortex when compared with controls. Significant increases were seen in the cingulate gyrus and temporal poles, bilaterally. SPM analysis revealed foci of decreased glucose metabolism in the caudate, cerebellum, precentral gyrus and cerebellar tonsils of galactosaemic patients. SPM also showed increased glucose metabolism in the subcallosal gyrus and claustrum. The results show significant abnormalities in cerebral function in patients with galactosaemia, particularly with widespread decreases in cortical metabolism. These abnormalities appear to be in brain regions that may be associated with the neuropsychological deficits in these patients. PET brain scans may be of value in galactosaemia patients to evaluate for dysfunction."}
{"id": "18496445", "title": "Value of combining activated brain FDG-PET and cardiac MIBG for the differential diagnosis of dementia: differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer disease when the diagnoses based on clinical and neuroimaging criteria are difficult.", "content": "Value of combining activated brain FDG-PET and cardiac MIBG for the differential diagnosis of dementia: differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer disease when the diagnoses based on clinical and neuroimaging criteria are difficult. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common cause of dementia. The diagnosis of DLB is particularly important because these patients show good response to cholinesterase inhibitors. Clinical and neuroimaging criteria for DLB have not been acceptable for predictive accuracy. We report a case of progressive dementia in which the differentiation of DLB and Alzheimer disease (AD) on the basis of clinical criteria alone was not possible. The patient was admitted to the hospital because he became worse after he had started treatment for severe AD. Both MRI and brain magnetic resonance spectroscopy were normal. The patient underwent myocardial scintigraphy with I-123 MIBG showing marked reduction in cardiac MIBG accumulation. The heart to mediastinum ratio of MIBG uptake was impaired in both early and delayed images. FDG-PET scan before and after activation with a visual attention task showed occipital cortex hypometabolism as compared with AD and a normal control. This case illustrates the value of combining activated brain FDG PET and cardiac MIBG. The association of these 2 techniques could be used as a potential diagnostic tool in a patient with dementia misdiagnosed as AD."}
{"id": "18477846", "title": "Cerebral metabolic dysfunction in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies and visual hallucinations.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic dysfunction in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies and visual hallucinations. To identify the pattern of cerebral hypometabolism in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and visual hallucinations (VH). Fourteen patients with DLB and VH, 7 with DLB without VH and 16 healthy controls underwent clinical and (18)F-FDG PET evaluations. The 2 patient groups did not significantly differ in their clinical characteristics, except in the occurrence of VH. A voxel-wise comparison of (18)F-FDG PET scans was conducted between each of the 2 patient groups and the control group, and the patient groups among each other. Compared with the control group, hypometabolic regions were more extensive and confluent in the patient group with VH than in the group without VH. The direct comparison between the 2 patient groups revealed a significant metabolic deficit in the group with VH at the right occipito-temporal junction and the right middle frontal gyrus. These results suggest that hypometabolism in visual association areas rather than the primary visual cortex is involved in VH in DLB."}
{"id": "18474742", "title": "Cognitive and anatomic contributions of metabolic decline in Alzheimer disease and cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Cognitive and anatomic contributions of metabolic decline in Alzheimer disease and cerebrovascular disease. Alzheimer disease and cerebrovascular disease affect elderly persons through alterations in brain structure and metabolism that produce cognitive decline. Understanding how each disease contributes to dementia is essential from both a pathophysiologic and diagnostic perspective. To elucidate how baseline cognitive function (episodic memory and executive function) and brain anatomy (white matter hyperintensities and hippocampal volume) are associated with baseline (positron emission tomography-1 [PET1]) and longitudinal (PET2) glucose metabolism in 38 subjects older than 55 years ranging from normal cognition, cognitive impairment without dementia, and dementia. Cross-sectional regression analyses across subjects. Multicenter, university-based study of subcortical vascular dementia. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was the primary outcome, with the major hypotheses that memory and hippocampal volume are related to temporoparietal hypometabolism while executive function and white matter hyperintensities correlate with frontal lobe hypometabolism. Low baseline hippocampal volume predicted longitudinal development (PET2) of medial temporal hypometabolism. Lower memory was associated with parietal and cingulate hypometabolism at PET1, which increased at the 2-year-follow-up (PET2). Executive function was associated with frontal and temporoparietal hypometabolism at PET1 but only with frontal hypometabolism at follow-up. White matter hyperintensities predicted hypometabolism over time in the frontoparietal regions, predicting a rate of metabolic change (PET1 - PET2/time). Low baseline episodic memory and hippocampal volume predict the metabolic alterations associated with Alzheimer disease, whereas elevated baseline white matter hyperintensities predict a different pattern of metabolic decline that is plausibly associated with cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "18458605", "title": "Prediction of response to donepezil in Alzheimer's disease: combined MRI analysis of the substantia innominata and SPECT measurement of cerebral perfusion.", "content": "Prediction of response to donepezil in Alzheimer's disease: combined MRI analysis of the substantia innominata and SPECT measurement of cerebral perfusion. We performed combined studies of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) analysis of the substantia innominata and single photon emission CT (SPECT) measurement of cerebral perfusion with the goal of predicting which patients with Alzheimer's disease are most likely to respond to donepezil treatment. Ninety-one patients treated with donepezil were divided into responders and non-responders on the basis of changes in their MMSE scores from baseline to study endpoint. The thickness of the substantia innominata was measured on the coronal T2-weighted MRI through the anterior commissure. SPECT data were analysed using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections. Responders had significantly greater atrophy of the substantia innominata, but less prominent frontal hypoperfusion than non-responders. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that combined MRI and SPECT examination showed an overall discrimination rate of 70% between responders and non-responders. Our results suggest that responder patients have more severe damage in the cholinergic system and/or less prominent frontal cortical dysfunction. Combined MRI analysis of the substantia innominata and SPECT measurement of frontal perfusion at baseline may help to predict response to donepezil treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "18451225", "title": "Regional hypoxia in glioblastoma multiforme quantified with [18F]fluoromisonidazole positron emission tomography before radiotherapy: correlation with time to progression and survival.", "content": "Regional hypoxia in glioblastoma multiforme quantified with [18F]fluoromisonidazole positron emission tomography before radiotherapy: correlation with time to progression and survival. Hypoxia is associated with resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy and activates transcription factors that support cell survival and migration. We measured the volume of hypoxic tumor and the maximum level of hypoxia in glioblastoma multiforme before radiotherapy with [(18)F]fluoromisonidazole positron emission tomography to assess their impact on time to progression (TTP) or survival. Twenty-two patients were studied before biopsy or between resection and starting radiotherapy. Each had a 20-minute emission scan 2 hours after i.v. injection of 7 mCi of [(18)F]fluoromisonidazole. Venous blood samples taken during imaging were used to create tissue to blood concentration (T/B) ratios. The volume of tumor with T/B values above 1.2 defined the hypoxic volume (HV). Maximum T/B values (T/B(max)) were determined from the pixel with the highest uptake. Kaplan-Meier plots showed shorter TTP and survival in patients whose tumors contained HVs or tumor T/B(max) ratios greater than the median (P < or = 0.001). In univariate analyses, greater HV or tumor T/B(max) were associated with shorter TTP or survival (P < 0.002). Multivariate analyses for survival and TTP against the covariates HV (or T/B(max)), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T1Gd volume, age, and Karnovsky performance score reached significance only for HV (or T/B(max); P < 0.03). The volume and intensity of hypoxia in glioblastoma multiforme before radiotherapy are strongly associated with poorer TTP and survival. This type of imaging could be integrated into new treatment strategies to target hypoxia more aggressively in glioblastoma multiforme and could be applied to assess the treatment outcomes."}
{"id": "18439926", "title": "[Semantic dementia: reflexions of a French working group for diagnostic criteria and constitution of a patient cohort].", "content": "[Semantic dementia: reflexions of a French working group for diagnostic criteria and constitution of a patient cohort]. Semantic dementia (SD) is a syndrome of progressive loss of semantic knowledge for objects and people. International criteria propose that SD be included in the frontotemporal lobar degeneration syndromes, with progressive non-fluent aphasia and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, several related syndromes have been defined that clinically and conceptually share both similarities and differences with SD: fluent progressive aphasia, progressive prosopagnosia, temporal variant of FTD. In order to establish a French consensus for the diagnosis and modalities of evaluation and follow-up of SD, a working group, composed of neurologists, neuropsychologists and speech-therapists, was established by the Groupe de r\u00e9flexion sur les \u00e9valuations cognitives (GRECO). New criteria were elaborated, based on clinical, neuropsychological, and imaging data. They define typical and atypical forms of SD. A diagnosis of typical SD relies on an isolated and progressive loss of semantic knowledge, attested by a deficit of word comprehension and a deficit of objects and/or people identification, with imaging showing temporal atrophy and/or hypometabolism. SD is atypical if the deficit of semantic knowledge is present only within a single modality (verbal versus visual), or if non-semantic deficits (mild and not present at onset) and/or neurological signs, are associated with the semantic loss."}
{"id": "18433968", "title": "Usefulness of a blood flow analyzing program 3DSRT to detect occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Usefulness of a blood flow analyzing program 3DSRT to detect occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies. In the latest criteria for the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), supportive features include generalized low uptake on SPECT/PET perfusion scan with reduced occipital activity. In this study, we investigated the usefulness of a cerebral blood flow (CBF) quantification program '3DSRT' in detecting occipital hypoperfusion in DLB. Twenty two patients with probable DLB, 38 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 16 normal controls underwent brain perfusion SPECT. Compared with AD, DLB patients had a bilateral lower CBF in the posterior cerebral segments. The correlation of clinical symptoms and brain blood perfusion was examined by dividing the subjects into subgroups. DLB patients with Parkinsonism, when compared to non-Parkinsonism subgroup, had a lower CBF throughout the cerebrum with statistical significance in the posterior cerebral segments. The quantitative analysis of brain perfusion SPECT by 3DSRT could be a useful supportive measurement in the diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "18430441", "title": "[Positron emission tomography: which indications, which benefits?].", "content": "[Positron emission tomography: which indications, which benefits?]. Positron emission tomography (PET) is currently used in the presurgical workup for drug-resistant partial epilepsies in addition to MRI. Interictal metabolism is studied in clinical practice using (18)fluoro-desoxy-glucose ((18)FDG). In medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) associated with hippocampal sclerosis, hypometabolism ipsilateral to the epileptogenic focus is found in 70-90% of cases. However, hypometabolism is larger than the structural lesion observed on MRI and includes the epileptogenic zone and ictal discharge spread areas. Hypometabolism is related to surgical outcome and cognitive disturbances in MTLE. Although the usefulness of PET appears less well-established in extratemporal lobe epilepsy and in children, its sensitivity may be improved by coregistration and superimposition of PET on MRI at any age. Focal hypometabolism can be easily detected by visual analysis, allowing detection of minor gyral abnormalities that may correspond to focal cortical dysplasias. Moreover, in cases of negative MRI, focal hypometabolism findings may help invasive monitoring planning and deep electrode placement for SEEG, and finally improve surgical outcome."}
{"id": "18418593", "title": "Individual cerebral metabolic deficits in Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: an FDG PET study.", "content": "Individual cerebral metabolic deficits in Alzheimer's disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: an FDG PET study. The purpose of the study was the identification of group and individual subject patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRGlu) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) studies and neuropsychological tests were performed in 16 aMCI patients (ten women, age 75+/-8 years) and in 14 AD patients (ten women, age 75+/-9 years). Comparisons between patient subgroups and with a control population were performed using Statistical Parametric Mapping. Clusters of low CMRGlu were observed bilaterally in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), in the precuneus, in the inferior parietal lobule and middle temporal gyrus of AD patients. In aMCI patients, reduced CMRGlu was found only in PCC. Areas of low CMRGlu in PCC were wider in AD compared to aMCI and extended to the precuneus, while low CMRGlu was found in the lateral parietal cortex in AD but not in aMCI patients. Individual subject pattern analysis revealed that 86% of AD patients had low CMRGlu in the PCC (including the precuneus in 71%), 71% in the temporal cortex, 64% in the parietal cortex and 35% in the frontal cortex. Among the aMCI patients, 56% had low CMRGlu in the PCC, 44% in the temporal cortex, 18% in the frontal cortex and none in the parietal cortex. This study demonstrates that both AD and aMCI patients have highly heterogeneous metabolic impairment. This potential of individual metabolic PET imaging in patients with AD and aMCI may allow timely identification of brain damage on individual basis and possibly help planning tailored early interventions."}
{"id": "18395614", "title": "CSF phosporylated TAU protein levels correlate with cerebral glucose metabolism assessed with PET in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "CSF phosporylated TAU protein levels correlate with cerebral glucose metabolism assessed with PET in Alzheimer's disease. One major goal of drug development would be the establishment of biomarkers as objective indicators of normal biological and pathogenetic processes, or pharmacological response to a therapeutic intervention. A potential approach is to investigate proteins in CSF linked to key neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently CSF phosphorylated-Tau (p-Tau) levels have been reported to reflect neurofibrillary changes within the brain of patients with AD, however the use of serial CSF investigations in order to monitor the disease progression is not applicable. PET with FDG reveals characteristic patterns in AD patients, however so far no correlation between in vivo metabolic information and pathological features has been reported. In the present study, we tested whether CSF Tau levels correlate with metabolic rate for glucose consumption in a cohort of 28 AD patients. We found a statistically significative correlation between both CSF total and p-TAU protein and relative metabolic indexes obtained from 18FDG-PET scans in parietal, temporal and occipital lobes bilaterally. These results indicate the existence of a correlation between impairment of cerebral metabolism, estimated throughout FDG-PET, and CSF Tau protein levels."}
{"id": "18376055", "title": "Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-PET in APOEepsilon4 carriers in the Australian population.", "content": "Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-PET in APOEepsilon4 carriers in the Australian population. Apolipoprotein E-epsilon4 (APOEepsilon4) has been associated with increased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and regional cerebral glucose hypometabolism, as measured by fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). We report here preliminary data from studies that aim to determine whether cerebral glucose hypometabolism is observed in APOEepsilon4 positive, cognitively intact individuals between the ages of 50 and 80, and whether there is an additional impact of subjective memory complainer (SMC) status on glucose metabolism determined by NeuroStat analysis. FDG-PET was conducted in 30 community dwelling, APOE-epsilon4 carriers without clinical evidence of dementia and objective cognitive impairment as assessed using a neuropsychological battery. Neurological soft-signs (NSS) were also assessed. Glucose hypometabolism was demonstrated in the anterior and posterior cingulate cortex and in the temporal association cortices in APOEepsilon4 carriers compared to the normative NeuroStat database. This pattern was particularly evident in APOEepsilon4 heterozygous individuals. SMC showed hypometabolism in the aforementioned brain regions, whereas non-SMC showed no significant pattern of glucose hypometabolism. FDG-PET with NeuroStat analysis showed that APOEepsilon4 carriers have mild glucose hypometabolism in areas associated with AD. SMC may be associated with AD-related differences in regional cerebral glucose metabolism. These findings are currently being investigated in a larger group of APOEepsilon4 carriers."}
{"id": "18367705", "title": "Metabolic abnormalities associated with mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson disease.", "content": "Metabolic abnormalities associated with mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson disease. To use (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET to investigate changes in regional metabolism associated with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in Parkinson disease (PD). Cognitive abnormalities are common in PD. However, little is known about the functional abnormalities that underlie the manifestations of MCI in this disorder. We used FDG PET to measure regional glucose metabolism in patients with PD with multiple-domain MCI (MD-MCI; n = 18), with single-domain MCI (SD-MCI; n = 15), and without MCI (N-MCI; n = 18). These patients were matched for age, education, disease duration, and motor disability. Maps of regional metabolism in the three groups were compared using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). We also computed the expression of a previously validated cognition-related spatial covariance pattern (PDCP) in the patient groups and in an age-matched healthy control cohort (n = 15). PDCP expression was compared across groups using analysis of variance. SPM revealed decreased prefrontal and parietal metabolism (p < 0.001) in MD-MCI relative to N-MCI, as well as an increase in brainstem/cerebellar metabolism (p < 0.001) in this group. In these regions, SD-MCI occupied an intermediate position between the two other groups. PDCP expression was abnormally elevated in the N-, SD-, and MD-MCI groups (p < 0.05), increasing stepwise with worsening cognitive impairment (p < 0.01). Early cognitive decline in Parkinson disease as defined by mild cognitive impairment is associated with discrete regional changes and abnormal metabolic network activity. The quantification of these alterations with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET may allow for the objective assessment of the progression and treatment of this disease manifestation."}
{"id": "18359666", "title": "When should a resection sparing mesial structures be considered for temporal lobe epilepsy?", "content": "When should a resection sparing mesial structures be considered for temporal lobe epilepsy? Anteromesial temporal lobectomy (AMTL) is an effective and safe treatment for refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) caused by hippocampal sclerosis (HS). It is possible that modifications to this procedure could offer improved seizure control or a reduction in functional consequences in some patients. Reviewed here is the issue of when it might be appropriate to perform a resection for TLE that spares the mesial structures, particularly the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus. This issue is particularly important for dominant hemipshere TLE and for patients without obvious HS, as these are the patients at greatest risk for verbal memory decline following AMTL. Current evidence suggests that mesial structure-sparing resections may be worth consideration for two types of patients: those with temporal lobe foreign tissue lesions outside the mesial structures, and those with temporal lobe hypometabolism on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography but a normal MRI. Patients with dual pathology (i.e., HS plus another epileptogenic lesion) are unlikely to benefit from a resection that spares the mesial temporal lobe. There is little evidence to state whether resections of this kind are worthwhile for cryptogenic TLE, or for mesial TLE with preserved memory function. There is a clear need to move beyond the field's present focus on the hippocampus and investigate new approaches to TLE that may minimize the risks of functional consequences in patients without HS."}
{"id": "18358666", "title": "FDG autoradiography reveals developmental and pathological effects of mutant amyloid in PDAPP transgenic mice.", "content": "FDG autoradiography reveals developmental and pathological effects of mutant amyloid in PDAPP transgenic mice. Transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) show some characteristic features of the disease, and we aim to further bridge the gap between studies of humans with AD, those at risk, and these murine models by providing shared markers of disease which could be used to track progression and assess future interventions. Brain imaging measurements may prove useful in this regard. We previously found that the homozygous PDAPP mouse model of AD showed significant declines in glucose uptake with age in posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), an area homologous to the human posterior cingulate, which shows significant declines in AD and in those at risk for AD. To further evaluate this potential biomarker and its correlation across age, we used fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography at two ages (2 and 12 months) in wildtype, heterozygous, and homozygous PDAPP mice. We found significant posterior cingulate fluorodeoxyglucose uptake declines again in homozygous PDAPP mice, but at both ages assessed. There was a strong effect of gene dose; homozygous mice showed larger and earlier effects. These results, in conjunction with our previous analyses, indicate a nonlinear progression stemming from synergistic effects of the overexpressed mutant gene, both developmental and pathological. The posterior cingulate is preferentially vulnerable to both effects of transgene in the PDAPP mouse, and both are independent of amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "18344436", "title": "Tumor blood flow measured by PET dynamic imaging of first-pass 18F-FDG uptake: a comparison with 15O-labeled water-measured blood flow.", "content": "Tumor blood flow measured by PET dynamic imaging of first-pass 18F-FDG uptake: a comparison with 15O-labeled water-measured blood flow. PET molecular imaging of 15O-labeled water is the gold standard for measuring blood flow in humans. However, this requires an on-site cyclotron to produce the short-lived 15O tracer, which is cost-prohibitive for most clinical PET centers. The purpose of this study was to determine if the early uptake of 18F-FDG could be used to measure regional blood flow in tumors in the absence of 15O-water. PET scans were obtained in patients being evaluated for tumor perfusion and glucose metabolism in a phase I dose-escalating protocol for endostatin, a novel antiangiogenic agent. A 2-min perfusion scan was performed with a bolus injection of 2,220 MBq (60 mCi) of 15O-water, which was followed by a 370-MBq (10 mCi) dose of 18F-FDG. Four sequential scans of 18F-FDG uptake were acquired, consisting of an early 2-min uptake scan-or first-pass scan-and 3 sequential 15-min late 18F-FDG uptake scans. Regions of interest (ROIs) were drawn on 2 or more tumor sites and on back muscle, as a control ROI, for each patient. Arterial blood concentration was derived from the PET scans by drawing an ROI over a large artery in the field of view. Blood flow was computed with a simple 1-compartment blood flow model using the first 2 min of data after injection. Blood flow estimated from the early uptake of 18F-FDG was linearly correlated with 15O-measured blood flow, with an intercept of 0.01, a slope of 0.86, and an R2 regression coefficient of 0.74 (r = 0.86). The 18F-FDG tumor extraction fraction relative to 15O-water averaged 0.86. A preliminary case study of a patient with prostate cancer confirms the utility of the first-pass 18F-FDG blood flow analysis in tumor diagnosis. These results suggest that the first-pass uptake of 18F-FDG may provide an estimate of perfusion in a tumor within the limitations of incomplete extraction of 18F-FDG compared with 15O-water."}
{"id": "18332434", "title": "Alzheimer's disease is associated with reduced expression of energy metabolism genes in posterior cingulate neurons.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease is associated with reduced expression of energy metabolism genes in posterior cingulate neurons. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with regional reductions in fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose, which may begin long before the onset of histopathological or clinical features, especially in carriers of a common AD susceptibility gene. Molecular evaluation of cells from metabolically affected brain regions could provide new information about the pathogenesis of AD and new targets at which to aim disease-slowing and prevention therapies. Data from a genome-wide transcriptomic study were used to compare the expression of 80 metabolically relevant nuclear genes from laser-capture microdissected non-tangle-bearing neurons from autopsy brains of AD cases and normal controls in posterior cingulate cortex, which is metabolically affected in the earliest stages; other brain regions metabolically affected in PET studies of AD or normal aging; and visual cortex, which is relatively spared. Compared with controls, AD cases had significantly lower expression of 70% of the nuclear genes encoding subunits of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in posterior cingulate cortex, 65% of those in the middle temporal gyrus, 61% of those in hippocampal CA1, 23% of those in entorhinal cortex, 16% of those in visual cortex, and 5% of those in the superior frontal gyrus. Western blots confirmed underexpression of those complex I-V subunits assessed at the protein level. Cerebral metabolic rate for glucose abnormalities in FDG PET studies of AD may be associated with reduced neuronal expression of nuclear genes encoding subunits of the mitochondrial electron transport chain."}
{"id": "18300284", "title": "Effect of phenserine treatment on brain functional activity and amyloid in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effect of phenserine treatment on brain functional activity and amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. The effects of (-)-phenserine (phenserine) and placebo/donepezil treatment on regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) and brain amyloid load were investigated by positron emission tomography in 20 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease in relation to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma biomarkers, and cognitive function. The first 3 months of the study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase, during which 10 patients received phenserine (30 mg/day) and 10 patients the placebo. Three to 6 months was an open-label extension phase, during which the placebo group received donepezil (5 mg/day) and the phenserine group remained on phenserine. After 6 months, all patients received phenserine treatment up to 12 months. The patients underwent positron emission tomography examinations to measure rCMRglc (8F-FDG) and amyloid load (11C-PIB) at baseline and after 3 and 6 months of the treatment. Neuropsychological and biomarker data were collected at the three times of positron emission tomography imaging. Statistically significant effects on a composite neuropsychological test score were observed in the phenserine-treated group compared with the placebo and donepezil group at 3 and 6 months, respectively. Values of rCMRglc were significantly increased in several cortical regions after 3 months of phenserine treatment, compared with baseline, and correlated positively with cognitive function and CSF beta-amyloid 40 (Abeta40). Cortical Pittsburgh Compound B retention correlated negatively with CSF Abeta40 levels and the ratio Abeta/beta-secretase-cleaved amyloid precursor protein. In CSF, Abeta40 correlated positively with the attention domain of cognition. Phenserine treatment was associated with an improvement in cognition and an increase in rCMRglc."}
{"id": "18287270", "title": "Multicenter standardized 18F-FDG PET diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, and other dementias.", "content": "Multicenter standardized 18F-FDG PET diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, and other dementias. This multicenter study examined (18)F-FDG PET measures in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from normal aging and from each other and the relation of disease-specific patterns to mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We examined the (18)F-FDG PET scans of 548 subjects, including 110 healthy elderly individuals (\"normals\" or NLs), 114 MCI, 199 AD, 98 FTD, and 27 DLB patients, collected at 7 participating centers. Individual PET scans were Z scored using automated voxel-based comparison with generation of disease-specific patterns of cortical and hippocampal (18)F-FDG uptake that were then applied to characterize MCI. Standardized disease-specific PET patterns were developed that correctly classified 95% AD, 92% DLB, 94% FTD, and 94% NL. MCI patients showed primarily posterior cingulate cortex and hippocampal hypometabolism (81%), whereas neocortical abnormalities varied according to neuropsychological profiles. An AD PET pattern was observed in 79% MCI with deficits in multiple cognitive domains and 31% amnesic MCI. (18)F-FDG PET heterogeneity in MCI with nonmemory deficits ranged from absent hypometabolism to FTD and DLB PET patterns. Standardized automated analysis of (18)F-FDG PET scans may provide an objective and sensitive support to the clinical diagnosis in early dementia."}
{"id": "18284428", "title": "Alzheimer disease-like clinical phenotype in a family with FTDP-17 caused by a MAPT R406W mutation.", "content": "Alzheimer disease-like clinical phenotype in a family with FTDP-17 caused by a MAPT R406W mutation. We report clinical, molecular, neuroimaging and neuropathological features of a Danish family with autosomal dominant inherited dementia, a clinical phenotype resembling Alzheimer's disease and a pathogenic mutation (R406W) in the microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) gene. Pre-symptomatic and affected family members underwent multidisciplinary (clinical, molecular, neuroimaging and neuropathological) examinations. Treatment with memantine in a family member with early symptoms, based on the clinical phenotype and the lack of specific treatment, appears to stabilize the disease course and increase the glucose metabolism in cortical and subcortical areas, as determined by serial [F(18)]FDG-PET scanning before and after initiation of treatment. Neuropathological examination of a second affected and mutation-positive family member showed moderate atrophy of the temporal lobes including the hippocampi. Microscopy revealed abundant numbers of tau-positive neurofibrillary tangles in all cortical areas and in some brainstem nuclei corresponding to a diagnosis of frontotemporal lobe degeneration on the basis of a MAPT mutation. The clinical and genetic heterogeneity of autosomal dominant inherited dementia must be taken into account in the genetic counselling and genetic testing of families with autosomal dominantly inherited dementia in general."}
{"id": "18283251", "title": "Multitracer study in Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: mismatch pattern of cerebral hypometabolism and perfusion imaging.", "content": "Multitracer study in Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: mismatch pattern of cerebral hypometabolism and perfusion imaging. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a subacute spongiform encephalopathy. This fatal prion disease is characterized by rapidly progressive dementia with a variety of neurological disorders. Diagnostic methods provided by nuclear medicine might be helpful for evaluation of patients with probable CJD as additional diagnostic tools to MRI and cerebro-spinal fluid evaluation. The experience with FDG-PET and brain perfusion SPECT is presented."}
{"id": "18280754", "title": "Cholesterol-related genetic risk scores are associated with hypometabolism in Alzheimer's-affected brain regions.", "content": "Cholesterol-related genetic risk scores are associated with hypometabolism in Alzheimer's-affected brain regions. We recently implicated a cluster of nine single nucleotide polymorphisms from seven cholesterol-related genes in the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a European cohort, and we proposed calculating an aggregate cholesterol-related genetic score (CREGS) to characterize a person's risk. In a separate study, we found that apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 gene dose, an established AD risk factor, was correlated with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of hypometabolism in AD-affected brain regions in a cognitively normal American cohort, and we proposed using PET as a presymptomatic endophenotype to help assess putative modifiers of AD risk. Thus, the objective in the present study is to determine whether CREGS is related to PET measurements of hypometabolism in AD-affected brain regions. DNA and PET data from 141 cognitively normal late middle-aged APOE epsilon4 homozygotes, heterozygotes and noncarriers were analyzed to evaluate the relationship between CREGS and regional PET measurements. Cholesterol-related genetic risk scores were associated with hypometabolism in AD-affected brain regions, even when controlling for the effects of APOE epsilon4 gene dose. The results support the role of cholesterol-related genes in the predisposition to AD and support the value of neuroimaging in the presymptomatic assessment of putative modifiers of AD risk."}
{"id": "18227990", "title": "18F-FDG PET in neurodegenerative Langerhans cell histiocytosis : results and potential interest for an early diagnosis of the disease.", "content": "18F-FDG PET in neurodegenerative Langerhans cell histiocytosis : results and potential interest for an early diagnosis of the disease. The so called \"neurodegenerative Langerhans cell histiocytosis\" (ND-LCH) is a rare and severe complication of LCH presenting as a progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with pyramidal tract signs, and cognitive impairment. MRI is the gold standard to investigate CNS lesions of ND-LCH but little is known about functional changes observed in this disease. To search for CNS metabolic changes in NDLCH. Seven patients suffering from ND-LCH were investigated by 18F-FDG PET in this prospective study and compared with 21 healthy controls. ND-LCH patients demonstrated recurrent abnormalities including bilateral hypometabolism in the cerebellum, the basal ganglia (caudate nuclei), frontal cortex and, bilateral, a relatively increased metabolism in the amygdalae (p < 0.001). Functional changes in these anatomical regions may be detected in the absence of any apparent lesion on MRI. ND-LCH demonstrates a recurrent 18F-FDG PET metabolic signature. Our results suggest that 18F-FDG PET might be a useful tool for an early diagnosis of ND-LCH before neuroradiologic abnormalities appear."}
{"id": "18207114", "title": "Current and future uses of neuroimaging for cognitively impaired patients.", "content": "Current and future uses of neuroimaging for cognitively impaired patients. Technological advances have led to greater use of both structural and functional brain imaging to assist with the diagnosis of dementia for the increasing numbers of people with cognitive decline as they age. In current clinical practice, structural imaging (CT or MRI) is used to identify space-occupying lesions and stroke. Functional methods, such as PET scanning of glucose metabolism, could be used to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal dementia, which helps to guide clinicians in symptomatic treatment strategies. New neuroimaging methods that are currently being developed can measure specific neurotransmitter systems, amyloid plaque and tau tangle concentrations, and neuronal integrity and connectivity. Successful co-development of neuroimaging surrogate markers and preventive treatments might eventually lead to so-called brain-check scans for determining risk of cognitive decline, so that physicians can administer disease-modifying medications, vaccines, or other interventions to avoid future cognitive losses and to delay onset of disease."}
{"id": "18187156", "title": "Measurement of the 11C-flumazenil binding in the visual cortex predicts the prognosis of hemianopia.", "content": "Measurement of the 11C-flumazenil binding in the visual cortex predicts the prognosis of hemianopia. In order to determine whether functional neuroimaging studies can predict the prognosis of hemianopia due to organic cerebral disorders, we studied 8 patients (6 men and 2 women; age, 56.0+/-8.6 years) with homonymous hemianopia and compared them with 15 normal subjects (6 men and 9 women; age, 54.3+/-4.4 years). The cerebral glucose metabolism and 11C-flumazenil (FMZ) binding were measured by positron emission tomography, more than 1 month after the onset of the condition. Bilateral regions of interest (ROIs) were selected in the striate cortex, extrastriate cortex, cuneus and thalamus. Further, semi-quantitative data on the cerebral glucose metabolism and FMZ binding were obtained for the ROIs and compared with the data obtained for homologous regions in the contralateral hemisphere by calculating the ipsilateral/contralateral (I/C) ratio. The I/C ratios for the cerebral glucose metabolism and FMZ binding in the striate cortex were significantly low in the patients (glucose metabolism, P<0.0005; FMZ binding, P<0.005), while the ratio for the FMZ binding in the cuneus increased (P<0.0005). We observed that 5 patients, whose I/C ratio for the FMZ binding in the striate cortex was >0.850, experienced an improvement in their visual field, while that 3 patients with lower I/C ratios did not. The FMZ-PET may be useful to predict the prognosis of hemianopia in the chronic phase."}
{"id": "18178568", "title": "Effects of disease duration on the clinical features and brain glucose metabolism in patients with mixed type multiple system atrophy.", "content": "Effects of disease duration on the clinical features and brain glucose metabolism in patients with mixed type multiple system atrophy. To study the effect of disease duration on the clinical, neuropsychological and [(18)F]-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET findings in patients with mixed type multiple system atrophy (MSA), this study included 16 controls and 37 mixed-type MSA patients with a shorter than a 3-year history of cerebellar or parkinsonian symptoms. We classified the patients into three groups according to the duration of parkinsonian or cerebellar symptoms (Group I = <or=1 year; II = 13-24 months; III = 25-36 months). We performed UPDRS, international cooperative ataxia rating scale (ICARS), and a neuropsychological test battery. We compared the FDG PET findings of each group of patients with controls. Group I patients frequently had memory and frontal executive dysfunction. They showed hypometabolism in the frontal cortex, anterior cerebellar hemisphere and vermis. They had parkinsonian motor deficits, but no basal ganglia hypometabolism. Group II and III patients frequently had multiple domain cognitive impairments, and showed hypometabolism in the frontal and parieto-temporal cortices. Hypometabolism of the bilateral caudate and the left posterolateral putamen was observed in Group II, and whole striatum in Group III. In summary, the cortical hypometabolism begins in the frontal cortex and spreads to the parieto-temporal cortex in MSA. This spreading pattern coincides with the progressive cognitive decline. Early caudate hypometabolism may also contribute to the cognitive impairment. Parkinsonian motor deficits precede putaminal hypometabolism that begins in its posterolateral part. Cerebellar hypometabolism occurs early in the clinical courses and seems to be a relevant metabolic descriptor of cerebellar deficits."}
{"id": "18165848", "title": "Amyloid and tau imaging, neuronal losses and function in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Amyloid and tau imaging, neuronal losses and function in mild cognitive impairment. Establish new approaches for early diagnosis of dementia, based on imaging amyloid and tau pathology, cell losses and neuronal function, in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI),. The overall aim is to develop effective tools for monitoring disease progression in the living patient to facilitate discovery of early therapeutic interventions to modify the course of the disease. Use 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F- 18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile ([F-18]FDDNP) in combination with positron emission tomography (PET) to produce dynamic images for quantification of regional cortical brain deposition in MCI patients and compare them with controls subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Comparison with other molecular imaging probes for neuronal losses and function were also made. Patients are positioned supine in the tomograph bed with his/her head in the detector ring field. Upon injection of the molecular imaging probe (e.g., [F-18]FDDNP) images are obtained at very short time intervals for up to two hours. This results in dynamic sequences of brain distribution of the probe. Patients with clinical diagnosis of AD, MCI and control subjects. Subjects in the categories established above were scanned with [F-18]FDDNP-PET and quantification performed using Logan parametric graphical analysis to measure relative quantitative amyloid loads throughout the brain within patient groups. These results were compared in the same patients with cell losses in hippocampus using 4-[F-18]fluoro-N-{2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)- 1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-N-(2-pyridinyl)benzamide,([F-18]MPPF) and regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates using 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-[F-18]FDG). [F-18]FDDNP reliably follows neuropathological progression (amyloid plaques [SP]; neurofibrillary tangles [NFT]) in the living brain of AD patients and those with MCI. The distribution of [F-18]FDDNP brain cortical accumulation correlates well with behavioral measures (e.g., MMSE scores) and follows known patterns of pathological distribution observed at autopsy. We have also established conversion of controls to MCI and MCI to AD with precision and sensitivity in patients and control subjects in follow-up studies. Moreover, we have established that hemispheric cortical surface mapping of [F-18]FDDNP binding is a powerful tool for assessment and visualization of the rate of brain pathology deposition. A strong correlation of [F-18]FDDNP binding, cell losses in hippocampus and decreased glucose utilization ([F-18]FDG PET) in several neocortical regions was found in the same AD and MCI subjects. The combined evaluation of [F-18]FDDNP PET (targeting NFT and_SP) with neuronal losses in the hippocampus and with [F-18]FDG PET (targeting neuronal function) offers the opportunity for reliable, noninvasive detection of MCI patients at risk for AD. The approach offers a glimpse to the molecular and cellular mechanisms associated with dementia and provides a means for their assessment in the living patient. Monitoring disease progression in MCI patients demonstrates the usefulness of this imaging approach for early diagnosis and provides a means for evaluation of neuroprotective agents and drugs aimed at prevention and modification of disease progression."}
{"id": "18063588", "title": "Direct voxel-based comparison between grey matter hypometabolism and atrophy in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Direct voxel-based comparison between grey matter hypometabolism and atrophy in Alzheimer's disease. Although the patterns of structural and metabolic brain alterations in Alzheimer's disease are being refined and discrepancies between them are being underlined, the exact relationships between atrophy and hypometabolism are still unclear. In this study, we aimed to provide a direct comparison between grey matter atrophy and hypometabolism in a sample of patients with clinically probable Alzheimer's disease, using a voxel-based method specially designed to statistically compare the two imaging modalities. Eighteen patients with probable Alzheimer's disease of mild severity and 15 healthy aged controls underwent both high-resolution T1 MRI and resting-state (18)FDG-PET. The MRI data sets were handled using optimized VBM. The PET data were coregistered to their corresponding MRI, corrected voxel-wise for partial volume averaging and spatially normalized using the same parameters as those of their corresponding MRI volume. A differential smoothing was applied on the MRI and PET data sets to equalize their effective smoothness and resolution. For each patient, Z-score maps of atrophy and hypometabolism were created by comparing to the controls data set, respectively averaged to provide the profile of hypometabolism and atrophy, and entered in a voxel-by-voxel SPM analysis to assess the statistical differences between hypometabolism and atrophy. The observed patterns of hypometabolism and atrophy were consistent with previous studies. However, the direct comparison revealed marked regional variability in the relationship between hypometabolism and atrophy. Thus, the hypometabolism significantly exceeded atrophy in most altered structures, particularly in the posterior cingulate-precuneus, orbitofrontal, inferior temporo-parietal, parahippocampal, angular and fusiform areas. In contrast, a few hypometabolic structures among which the hippocampus exhibited similar degrees of atrophy and hypometabolism, a profile that significantly differed from the posterior cingulate. Excessive hypometabolism relative to atrophy suggests the intervention of additional hypometabolism-inducing factors, such as disconnection and amyloid deposition, resulting in genuine functional perturbation ahead of actual atrophy and perhaps of pathology as well. Conversely, in the hippocampus, where disconnection processes are also likely to occur, relative synaptic compensatory mechanisms may be taking place, maintaining neuronal activity in the face of structural alterations."}
{"id": "18025784", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in dizygotic twin pairs discordant for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in dizygotic twin pairs discordant for Alzheimer's disease. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) can be used to estimate regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRgluc). FDG-PET studies have shown rCMRgluc to be reduced especially in temporal and parietal cortices in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A previous study on monozygotic twins discordant for AD showed that the rCMRgluc of the non-demented twins is reduced significantly in the lateral temporal and parietal cortices compared to unrelated controls. In this study we examined 9 pairs of dizygotic twins discordant for AD with FDG-PET. The rCMRgluc of the demented twins was 16% lower in the prefrontal cortex (p = 0.04), 20% lower in the hippocampus (p = 0.002) and 15% lower in the lateral temporal cortex (p = 0.003) compared to controls. The non-demented twins showed no such reductions on any cortical region compared to unrelated control subjects. This implies that both genes and environment, and not genes alone, are causative in the pathogenesis of AD."}
{"id": "18023012", "title": "Cognitive reserve hypothesis: Pittsburgh Compound B and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in relation to education in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognitive reserve hypothesis: Pittsburgh Compound B and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in relation to education in mild Alzheimer's disease. The reduced risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in high-educated individuals has been proposed to reflect brain cognitive reserve, which would provide more efficient compensatory mechanisms against the underlying pathology, and thus delayed clinical expression. Our aim was to find possible differences in brain amyloid ligand 11C-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ([11C]PIB) uptake and glucose metabolism in high- and low-educated patients with mild AD. Twelve high-educated and 13 low-educated patients with the same degree of cognitive deterioration were studied with PET using [11C]PIB and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose as ligands. The between-group differences were analyzed with voxel-based statistical method, and quantitative data were obtained with automated region-of-interest analysis. High-educated patients showed increased [11C]PIB uptake in the lateral frontal cortex compared with low-educated patients. Moreover, high-educated patients had significantly lower glucose metabolic rate in the temporoparietal cortical regions compared with low-educated patients. Our results suggesting more advanced pathological and functional brain changes in high-educated patients with mild AD are in accordance with the brain cognitive reserve hypothesis and point out the importance of development of reliable markers of underlying AD pathology for early AD diagnostics."}
{"id": "17962045", "title": "Imaging of amyloid plaques and cerebral glucose metabolism in semantic dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging of amyloid plaques and cerebral glucose metabolism in semantic dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Semantic dementia (SD) is a rare clinical syndrome, assigned to the group of frontotemporal lobar degenerations (FTLD). Histopathological analysis has not revealed the deposition of amyloid plaques in the majority of SD cases, in contrast to dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD). However, based on clinical examination alone a reliable differentiation of the underlying pathology cannot be guaranteed, i.e. AD and SD may be confused in some cases. Our aim was to determine, whether AD and SD can be differentiated in vivo by means of amyloid plaque PET imaging. In groups of AD and SD patients, matched for gender, age and overall degree of cognitive impairment, cerebral glucose metabolism was examined with [(18)F]Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET and cerebral amyloid plaque density was assessed using [(11)C]6-OH-BTA-1 (PIB)-PET. A volume-of-interest analysis (VOI), using the cerebellum as a reference region, and voxel-based statistical group comparisons (SPM2) were carried out between the patient groups and matched groups of healthy controls. To control for a potential influence of atrophy on the PET findings, a correction of partial volume effects was performed. Characteristic patterns of hypometabolism could be demonstrated in both clinically defined AD and SD with some regional overlap and subtle differences (AD: bilateral posterior cingulate, temporoparietal and frontal cortex; SD: left>right polar temporal, frontal mesial cortex). Compared with healthy controls, significant [(11)C]PIB amyloid plaque tracer binding was observed only in patients with AD (in bilateral temporoparietal, frontal and posterior cingulate cortex and the precuneus) but not in SD. This difference in amyloid plaque deposition could be reproduced in direct statistical comparison of AD and SD and clearly extended the metabolic differences between the patient groups. These findings support the notion that SD can be diagnosed in vivo as a separate entity from AD using amyloid plaque imaging. In general, amyloid plaque PET may complement neuropsychological assessment regarding reliable differential diagnosis of AD and FTLD dementias based on characterization of underlying pathology and may improve the definition of individual prognosis and the selection of patients for scientific trials."}
{"id": "17917455", "title": "Positron emission tomography facilitates diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography facilitates diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Clinical positron emission tomography (PET) may help in the evaluation of presenile patients with memory complaints for the presence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinical PET scans from 27 patients with clinically probable AD and early ages of onset (<65 years) were compared to PET scans from 27 age-matched controls presenting with memory complaints, but without dementia or mild cognitive impairment. Compared to controls, the AD patients had significant frontal, temporal and parietal hypometabolism bilaterally, and AD diagnosis correlated with left temporal and right temporoparietal hypometabolism. The sensitivity of temporoparietal hypometabolism for AD was 92.6%, the specificity 85.2%. Clinical PET imaging helps distinguish early-onset AD from patients with memory complaints not meeting criteria for dementia or mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "17720148", "title": "Hypometabolism and altered cerebrospinal fluid markers in normal apolipoprotein E E4 carriers with subjective memory complaints.", "content": "Hypometabolism and altered cerebrospinal fluid markers in normal apolipoprotein E E4 carriers with subjective memory complaints. We examined whether cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (CMRglc) on 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are altered in cognitively normal apolipoprotein E (ApoE) E4 carriers with subjective memory complaints (SMC). Twenty-eight middle-aged normal subjects (NL) were examined, including 13 E4 carriers (E4+; 6 with SMC [SMC+] and 7 without SMC [SMC-]) and 15 noncarriers (E4-; 7 SMC+ and 8 SMC-). Subjects received an FDG-PET scan and a lumbar puncture to measure CSF total (T-Tau) and hyperphosphorylated tau(231) (P-Tau), 40 and 42 amino acid forms of beta-amyloid (Abeta40 and Abeta42), and F(2)-isoprostane (IP). As compared with E4-, E4+ subjects showed decreased CMRglc in AD-related brain regions and associated higher CSF IP, P-Tau, T-Tau, and P-Tau/Abeta42 levels (p's < .05). As compared with SMC-, SMC+ subjects showed reduced parietotemporal and parahippocampal gyrus (PHG) CMRglc. A significant ApoE by SMC status interaction was found, with the E4+/SMC+ showing the lowest PHG CMRglc and the highest CSF IP, P-Tau, and P-Tau/Abeta42 levels as compared with all other subgroups (p's < or = .05). The combination of CSF and CMRglc measures significantly improved the accuracy of either measures alone in discriminating ApoE groups (86% accuracy, odds ratio [OR] = 4.1, p < .001) and E4+/SMC+ from all other subgroups (86% accuracy, OR = 3.7, p = .005). Parahippocampal gyrus CMRglc was the most accurate discriminator of SMC groups (75% accuracy, OR = 2.4, p < .001). Normal E4 carriers with SMC show altered AD-related CSF and FDG-PET measures. Longitudinal studies are needed to assess whether these brain abnormalities foreshadow clinical decline."}
{"id": "17635973", "title": "Foreign accent syndrome as the initial sign of primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Foreign accent syndrome as the initial sign of primary progressive aphasia. Foreign accent syndrome (FAS) is a rare speech disorder characterised by the emergence of a new accent, perceived by listeners as foreign. FAS has usually been described following focal brain insults, such as stroke. We describe the unusual case of a woman presenting with FAS as the earliest symptom of progressive degenerative brain disease. At presentation, she showed no language or other cognitive impairment, and functional and structural brain imaging were normal. Follow-up 1 year later revealed the emergence of mild expressive language problems. Repeat functional neuroimaging showed mild hypoperfusion of the perisylvian speech area of the left hemisphere, and structural imaging showed mild left perisylvian atrophy. We interpret the case as an unusual presentation of primary progressive non-fluent aphasia. The case provides further evidence of the variable and circumscribed nature of the clinical presentation of focal cerebral degeneration."}
{"id": "17499392", "title": "PET imaging of amyloid deposition in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "PET imaging of amyloid deposition in patients with mild cognitive impairment. It is of great clinical value to identify subjects at a high risk of developing AD. We previously found that the amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) tracer PIB showed a robust difference in retention in the brain between AD patients and healthy controls (HC). Twenty-one patients diagnosed with MCI (mean age 63.3+/-7.8 (S.D.) years) underwent PET studies with (11)C-PIB, and (18)F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG) to measure cerebral glucose metabolism, as well as assessment of cognitive function and CSF sampling. Reference group data from 27 AD patients and 6 healthy controls, respectively, were used for comparison. The mean cortical PIB retention for the MCI patients was intermediate compared to HC and AD. Seven MCI patients that later at clinical follow-up converted to AD (8.1+/-6.0 (S.D.) months) showed significant higher PIB retention compared to non-converting MCI patients and HC, respectively (ps<0.01). The PIB retention in MCI converters was comparable to AD patients (p>0.01). Correlations were observed in the MCI patients between PIB retention and CSF Abeta(1-42), total Tau and episodic memory, respectively."}
{"id": "17222480", "title": "Hippocampal hypometabolism predicts cognitive decline from normal aging.", "content": "Hippocampal hypometabolism predicts cognitive decline from normal aging. This longitudinal study used FDG-PET imaging to predict and monitor cognitive decline from normal aging. Seventy-seven 50-80-year-old normal (NL) elderly received longitudinal clinical examinations over 6-14 years (561 person-years, mean per person 7.2 years). All subjects had a baseline FDG-PET scan and 55 subjects received follow-up PET exams. Glucose metabolic rates (MRglc) in the hippocampus and cortical regions were examined as predictors and correlates of clinical decline. Eleven NL subjects developed dementia, including six with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 19 declined to mild cognitive impairment (MCI), on average 8 years after the baseline exam. The baseline hippocampal MRglc predicted decline from NL to AD (81% accuracy), including two post-mortem confirmed cases, from NL to other dementias (77% accuracy), and from NL to MCI (71% accuracy). Greater rates of hippocampal and cortical MRglc reductions were found in the declining as compared to the non-declining NL. Hippocampal MRglc reductions using FDG-PET during normal aging predict cognitive decline years in advance of the clinical diagnosis. Future studies are needed to increase preclinical specificity in differentiating dementing disorders."}
{"id": "18445747", "title": "Role of imaging techniques in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Role of imaging techniques in the diagnosis of dementia. Dementia is a common and growing problem, affecting 5% of the over 65 s and 20% of the over 80s. The recent availability of new treatments for dementia, as well as the importance of subtype-specific management, has renewed interest in the use of brain imaging techniques that can assist in the accurate recognition of Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), vascular dementia (VaD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Structural imaging, historically used to exclude an intracerebral lesion as a cause for dementia, is increasingly playing a role in \"ruling in\" diagnoses, with atrophy of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex an early and sensitive marker for AD, and cortical and subcortical infarcts and white matter lesions characteristic of VaD. Regionally distinct patterns of hypoperfusion on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) can help differentiate FTD, AD and VaD, and dopaminergic loss in the basal ganglia can differentiate DLB from AD. Newer techniques show great promise to detect specific neuroreceptor changes as well as pathological underpinnings of dementia, such as amyloid and tau pathology."}
{"id": "18445746", "title": "Positron emission tomography imaging in dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography imaging in dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a well-established imaging modality. Measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMR(glc)) using PET and [(18)F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) has become a standard technique in both oncology and dementia research. When measuring rCMR(glc) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), characteristic reductions in rCMR(glc) are found in neocortical association areas including the posterior cingulate, precuneus, temporoparietal and frontal multimodal association regions; the primary visual cortex, sensorimotor cortex, basal ganglia and cerebellum are relatively unaffected. FDG-PET has been used in the study of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to accurately predict the subsequent decline to AD. Impairment in rCMR(glc) may be seen in individuals at high genetic risk of AD, even before clinical symptoms are apparent. Characteristic patterns of regional hypometabolism are also seen in other degenerative dementias such as frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The use of different radioisotopes and tracers increases the versatility of PET. Tracers adopted in dementia research include (11)C-PK-11195 and (11)C-PIB, which have been used to investigate neuroinflammation and amyloid deposition, respectively, in both AD and MCI populations. It is also possible to investigate neurotransmitter systems in dementia; targets have included the cholinergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic systems. Imaging the brains of dementia patients using PET provides important information about the brain function of these individuals that would otherwise be unavailable with other imaging modalities. PET will continue to be important in future dementia research as new tracers become available to help in the early and specific diagnosis of increasingly well-defined clinical syndromes, and assist in the assessment of new therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "18430983", "title": "Right hemisphere involvement in non-fluent primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Right hemisphere involvement in non-fluent primary progressive aphasia. We described a 56-years-old man with a diagnosis of \"non-fluent primary progressive aphasia\" (NfPPA). An accurate neuropsychological, neurological and neuroimaging evaluation was performed in order to assess clinical and behavioural features of the patient. From a neuropsychological point of view, the patient showed a typical cognitive profile of subjects affected by NfPPA: a prominent language deficit, associated with impairments in several cognitive domains after three years from the onset of the symptomatology. The most intriguing feature is that SPECT revealed hypoperfusion in the right frontal cortex, albeit the patient is right-handed. This unexpected finding shows that NfPPA may arise not only from cortical abnormalities in the language-dominant left hemisphere, but also from right hemisphere involvement in a right hander (crossed aphasia)."}
{"id": "18160631", "title": "Systemic and nasal delivery of orexin-A (Hypocretin-1) reduces the effects of sleep deprivation on cognitive performance in nonhuman primates.", "content": "Systemic and nasal delivery of orexin-A (Hypocretin-1) reduces the effects of sleep deprivation on cognitive performance in nonhuman primates. Hypocretin-1 (orexin-A) was administered to sleep-deprived (30-36 h) rhesus monkeys immediately preceding testing on a multi-image delayed match-to-sample (DMS) short-term memory task. The DMS task used multiple delays and stimulus images and effectively measures cognitive defects produced by sleep deprivation (Porrino et al., 2005). Two methods of administration of orexin-A were tested, intravenous injections (2.5-10.0 microg/kg, i.v.) and a novel method developed for nasal delivery via an atomizer spray mist to the nostrils (dose estimated 1.0 microg/kg). Results showed that orexin-A delivered via the intravenous and nasal routes significantly improved performance in sleep-deprived monkeys; however, the nasal delivery method was significantly more effective than the highest dose (10 microg/kg) of intravenous orexin-A tested. The improvement in performance by orexin-A was specific to trials classified as high versus low cognitive load as determined by performance difficulty under normal testing conditions. Except for the maximum intravenous dose (10 microg/kg), neither delivery method affected task performance in alert non-sleep-deprived animals. The improved performance in sleep-deprived animals was accompanied by orexin-A related alterations in local cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) in specific brain regions shown previously to be engaged by the task and impaired by sleep deprivation (Porrino et al., 2005). Consistent with the differential effects on performance, nasal delivered orexin-A produced a more pronounced reversal of sleep deprivation induced changes in brain metabolic activity (CMRglc) than intravenous orexin-A. These findings provide strong evidence for the effectiveness of intranasal orexin-A in alleviating cognitive deficits produced by loss of sleep."}
{"id": "18067136", "title": "Long-term course and mutational spectrum of spatacsin-linked spastic paraplegia.", "content": "Long-term course and mutational spectrum of spatacsin-linked spastic paraplegia. Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) comprise a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders resulting in progressive spasticity of the lower limbs. One form of autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (ARHSP) with thin corpus callosum (TCC) was linked to chromosomal region 15q13-21 (SPG11) and associated with mutations in the spatacsin gene. We assessed the long-term course and the mutational spectrum of spatacsin-associated ARHSP with TCC. Neurological examination, cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 18fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET), nerve biopsy, linkage and mutation analysis are presented. Spastic paraplegia in patients with spatacsin mutations (n = 20) developed during the second decade of life. The Spastic Paraplegia Rating Scale (SPRS) showed severely compromised walking between the second and third decades of life (mean SPRS score, >30). Impaired cognitive function was associated with severe atrophy of the frontoparietal cortex, TCC, and bilateral periventricular white matter lesions. Progressive cortical and thalamic hypometabolism in the 18fluorodeoxyglucose PET was observed. Sural nerve biopsy showed a loss of unmyelinated nerve fibers and accumulation of intraaxonal pleomorphic membranous material. Mutational analysis of spatacsin demonstrated six novel and one previously reported frameshift mutation and two novel nonsense mutations. Furthermore, we report the first two splice mutations to be associated with SPG11. We demonstrate that not only frameshift and nonsense mutations but also splice mutations result in SPG11. Mutations are distributed throughout the spatacsin gene and emerge as major cause for ARHSP with TCC associated with severe motor and cognitive impairment. The clinical phenotype and the ultrastructural analysis suggest a disturbed axonal transport of long projecting neurons."}
{"id": "18048105", "title": "[Cerebral imaging and physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Cerebral imaging and physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by macroscopic cerebral damages which can be studied in vivo with neuroimaging techniques, even at the earliest stage. Studies were conducted in patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) who best represent incipient AD. Right temporo-parietal hypometabolism, assessed by resting-state (18)FDG-PET, distinguishes patients who further develop AD from those who remain stable. From the pre-dementia stage of MCI, atrophy of the hippocampal region detected with structural MRI contrasts with functional alteration of the posterior cingulate gyrus measured with (18)FDG-PET and SPECT. Results from resting-state fMRI confirm this pattern of functional abnormalities and highlight changes in the hippocampal region functional connectivity, decreased with the posterior cingulate region, and increased with some frontal areas. Altogether with a structural connectivity impairment highlighted by DTI, those results support the hypothesis of a dysconnexion between the hippocampal and the posterior cingulate regions. Finally, activation fMRI data support the hypothesis of a functional compensation involving not only the frontal cortex but also, at the pre-dementia stage, the hippocampal region. Thus, this synthesis focuses on the hypotheses of dysconnexion and functional compensation, suggested to explain the discrepancies between the structural and functional alteration patterns, as well as on relevant results from resting-state fMRI, DTI and activation fMRI studies. Furthermore, this synthesis emphasizes the relevance of neuroimaging for the early detection of AD."}
{"id": "18021379", "title": "The role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "The role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment. The main purposes of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been moved from diagnosis of advanced AD to diagnosis of very early AD at a prodromal stage of mild cognitive impairment, prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD, and differential diagnosis from other diseases causing dementia. Structural MRI studies and functional studies using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are widely used in diagnosis of AD. Outstanding progress in diagnostic accuracy of these neuroimaging modalities has been obtained using statistical analysis on a voxel-by-voxel basis after spatial normalization of individual scans to a standardized brain-volume template instead of visual inspection or a conventional region of interest technique. In a very early stage of AD, this statistical approach revealed gray matter loss in the entorhinal and hippocampal areas and hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. These two findings might be related in view of anatomical knowledge that the regions are linked through the circuit of Papez. This statistical approach also offers prediction of conversion from MCI to AD. Presence of hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in parietal association areas and entorhinal atrophy at the MCI stage has been reported to predict rapid conversion to AD."}
{"id": "18003925", "title": "Maternal family history of Alzheimer's disease predisposes to reduced brain glucose metabolism.", "content": "Maternal family history of Alzheimer's disease predisposes to reduced brain glucose metabolism. Having a parent affected with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a risk factor for developing AD among cognitively normal subjects. We examined whether cognitively normal subjects with a parental family history of AD show cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) reductions consistent with AD as compared with those without a family history and whether there are parent gender effects. Forty-nine 50- to 80-year-old normal subjects were examined who received clinical, neuropsychological, and 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose-positron emission tomography examinations, including 16 subjects with a maternal (FHm) and eight with a paternal (FHp) family history of AD and 25 with no family history (FH(-)). FH groups were comparable for demographic and neuropsychological measures. As compared with both FH(-) and FHp groups, FHm subjects showed CMRglc reductions in the same regions as clinically affected AD patients, involving the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus, parietotemporal and frontal cortices, and medial temporal lobes (P < 0.05, corrected for multiple comparisons). These effects remained significant after accounting for possible risk factors for AD, including age, gender, education, apolipoprotein E genotype, and subjective memory complaints. No CMRglc differences were found between FHp and FH(-) subjects. This study shows a relationship between reduced CMRglc in AD-vulnerable brain regions and a maternal family history of AD in cognitively normal individuals."}
{"id": "17979566", "title": "Comparison of cellular metabolic responses of (18)F-FDG according to the effect of beta-irradiation in p53 wild and deleted cell lines.", "content": "Comparison of cellular metabolic responses of (18)F-FDG according to the effect of beta-irradiation in p53 wild and deleted cell lines. The tumor suppressor gene, p53, plays a pivotal role for cell survival and apoptosis, which could cause different responses to therapeutic agents. Rhenium-188 ((188)Re) decays with the emission of a beta-particle with high energy and is expected to be an important candidate of radiotherapy. We investigated the cellular response of (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) uptake and the effect of p53 according to beta-irradiation by (188)Re. The HCT116 human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines, containing a wild-type p53 (p53(+/+)) and a p53-deleted derivative (p53(-/-)), were gifts from Dr. Bert Vogelstein (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD). Cells were plated in 24-well plates at 1.0 x 10(5) cells, then (188)Re perrhenate was added and incubated for 24 hours. After irradiation, we performed a cellular uptake assay of (18)F-FDG (370 kBq, 60 minutes). We assayed the hexokinase, cell viability, and cell cycle. p53-deleted HCT116 cells showed a higher (18)F-FDG uptake and increased hexokinase activity after (188)Re treatment. p53-deleted cells showed a higher G2/M (Gap2/Mitosis) arrest in a relatively low dose of beta-irradiation. However, cell viability was not different, according to the p53 status, after (188)Re treatment. Therefore, p53 seemed to have a significant role in cellular glucose metabolism and G2/M checkpoint, according to beta-irradiation, and could cause a different therapeutic response of (18)F-FDG uptake in cancer cells."}
{"id": "17952007", "title": "Visual rating and ROI-based parametric analysis of rCBF SPECT in patients with mild or questionable dementia: a comparative study.", "content": "Visual rating and ROI-based parametric analysis of rCBF SPECT in patients with mild or questionable dementia: a comparative study. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of visual image rating as compared to parametric analysis of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured with SPECT in patients referred to a memory clinic for diagnostic evaluation of cognitive symptoms. SPECT with (99m)Tc-HMPAO was used to determine rCBF in 47 patients and 26 healthy control subjects. The 47 patients (30 F/17 M) had a mean age of 74.6 years (range = 62-88) and mild or questionable dementia with an MMSE score of 24.8 (range = 20-30). Two experienced image readers blinded to the classifications and identity of subjects performed visual rating in consensus and the global and regional CBF patterns were evaluated and graded according to severity of hypoperfusion. Correlation coefficients were calculated using results from the parametric analyses as gold standard. The sensitivity and specificity of global visual rating (normal vs. abnormal SPECT) was 92 and 86%, respectively, yielding an overall accuracy of 89% for visual rating compared to parametric analysis. The correlation between visual rating and parametric analysis was highly significant (p < 0.001). Visual rating is a valid method for analyzing SPECT images in patients with mild or questionable dementia."}
{"id": "17941855", "title": "A comparison of cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "A comparison of cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) share many similar aspects, and making a clinical diagnosis of one disorder over the other relies heavily on an arbitrary criterion, so-called 1-year rule. This study was designed to search for any difference of metabolic patterns in these two disorders using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) images. We enrolled 16 patients with PD, 13 patients with PDD, and seven patients with DLB. FDG PET was performed, and images were reconstructed by iterative reconstruction using the computed tomography (CT) images, and were normalized to a standard template. Statistical comparison between groups were performed on a voxel-by-voxel basis using t-statistics (two-sample t-test). Compared with the patients with PD, both PDD and DLB patients showed similar patterns of decreased metabolism in bilateral inferior and medial frontal lobes, and right parietal lobe (P(uncorrected) < 0.001). In a direct comparison, DLB patients had significant metabolic decrease (p(uncorrected) < 0.005) in the anterior cingulate compared with those with PDD. These findings support the concept that PDD and DLB have similar underlying neurobiological characteristics, and that they can be regarded as a spectrum of Lewy body disorders."}
{"id": "17938373", "title": "Disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer disease: challenges to early intervention.", "content": "Disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer disease: challenges to early intervention. Prevention of Alzheimer disease (AD) is a national and global imperative. Therapy is optimally initiated when individuals are asymptomatic or exhibit mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Development of therapeutically beneficial compounds requires the creation of clinical trial methodologies for primary and secondary prevention. Populations in primary prevention trials selected only on the basis of age will have low rates of emergent MCI or AD. Epidemiologically based risk factors or biomarkers can be used to enrich trials and increase the likelihood of disease occurrence during the trial. Enrichment strategies for clinical trials with MCI include use of biomarkers such as amyloid imaging, MRI with demonstration of medial temporal lobe atrophy, bilateral parietal hypometabolism on PET, and reduced amyloid beta peptide and increased tau protein in CSF. Neuropsychological measures appropriate for trials of MCI may not be identical to those measures most suited for AD trials. Attention to these and other features of trial design, clinical assessment, and use of biomarkers is critical to improving the detection of disease-modifying effects of emerging therapies in presymptomatic or minimally symptomatic populations. The neurologic health of the growing aging population demands disease-modifying therapies and the development of methods to identify and test promising candidate agents."}
{"id": "17934882", "title": "Gender differences in brain reserve : an (18)F-FDG PET study in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Gender differences in brain reserve : an (18)F-FDG PET study in Alzheimer's disease. Neuropathological studies suggest that the association between neurodegenerative brain damage and clinical symptoms may be stronger in women than in men. To test the hypothesis that cerebral metabolic deficits due to neurodegeneration are more pronounced in men than in women at the same level of clinical disease severity. 93 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD; 50 men, 43 women) underwent an extensive clinical and neuropsychological examination and (18)F-FDG PET imaging at a university-based outpatient unit for cognitive disorders. An analysis of covariance (with age, total score of the CERAD neuropsychological battery, and years of school education as covariates) was conducted in each study group to identify gender differences in glucose metabolism. Controlling for age, education, and clinical severity, cortical regions were identified,where glucose metabolism was significantly reduced in men as compared with women. These regions were located in areas typically affected by AD pathology (right inferior frontal, superior temporal and insular cortex, and hippocampus). These data suggest that the same clinical severity of dementia is associated with greater reductions in cerebral metabolism in men than in women suggesting a greater degree of brain reserve in men."}
{"id": "17923638", "title": "Potassium channel antibody associated encephalopathy presenting with a frontotemporal dementia like syndrome.", "content": "Potassium channel antibody associated encephalopathy presenting with a frontotemporal dementia like syndrome. To describe a patient who presented with features suggestive of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) but with some atypical findings and antibodies to neuronal voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKC-Abs). Case report. Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. An 82-year-old man presented with progressive changes in personality, social conduct, and executive function with preservation of memory, deteriorating from baseline to requiring acute hospitalization within 6 months. Transient deterioration (episodic speech arrest) with spontaneous recovery, atypical for frontotemporal dementia, was observed. The patient had an elevated VGKC-Ab titer (2624 pM [normal range, < 100 pM]), elevated protein levels in cerebrospinal fluid, and a negative evaluation for malignancy. Magnetic resonance imaging of brain was normal but [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic imaging revealed bifrontal hypometabolism. A marked and sustained improvement with steroid therapy was observed. Workup for a potentially reversible autoimmune-mediated encephalopathy, including a VGKC-Ab titer, should be considered in patients presenting with rapidly progressive behavioral and cognitive decline."}
{"id": "17917583", "title": "Corticobasal syndrome associated with the A9D Progranulin mutation.", "content": "Corticobasal syndrome associated with the A9D Progranulin mutation. Corticobasal syndrome is characterized by cortical dysfunction and L-dopa-unresponsive Parkinsonism, with asymmetrical onset of clinical presentation and evidence of atrophy and/or hypometabolism at neuroimaging. Recently, the heterogeneous pathologic substrate of corticobasal syndrome has been further expanded to include cases with pathologic diagnosis of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin/TDP-43 (TAR DNA binding protein 43)-positive inclusions associated with progranulin (PGRN) mutations. We report a family in which several individuals have been affected with a dementia/movement disorder phenotype. The proband presented at age 45 with spontaneous left arm levitation, ideational apraxia, asymmetric parkinsonism, and dystonia. Subsequently, he developed limb-kinetic apraxia, left-side hemineglect, memory loss, and executive dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging and [F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography studies revealed severe cerebral cortical atrophy and hypometabolism, which were significantly more pronounced in the parietal lobes (right > left). Neuropathologic examination displayed the highest degree of degeneration and ubiquitin/TDP-43 pathology in the proband's parietal areas. Genetic analysis revealed the presence of the c.26C>A PGRN mutation in 1 allele. This mutation has been reported in association with hereditary-dysphasic-disinhibition-dementia, Alzheimer-like dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, and primary progressive aphasia. The peculiar findings observed in this patient indicate that the parietal lobe may represent the most vulnerable anatomical area in some of the PGRN-associated frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin/TDP-43-positive inclusion cases."}
{"id": "17907600", "title": "Brain imaging and neuropsychology in late-onset dementia due to a novel mutation (R93C) of valosin-containing protein.", "content": "Brain imaging and neuropsychology in late-onset dementia due to a novel mutation (R93C) of valosin-containing protein. Inclusion body myopathy with Paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD, MIM 167320) is a recently identified autosomal dominant disorder due to mutations in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) that affects muscle, bone and brain. Brain involvement and neuropsychological findings of IBMPFD have not been described in detail. A patient carried a novel heterozygous base pair change, 47832C>T, in the VCP gene that resulted in substitution of an arginine residue by cysteine at position 93 (R93C). He presented first with myopathy while bone involvement remained subclinical. The patient developed behavioral abnormalities in his 60s and showed frank personality change with fluent empty speech at the age of 74 years. This syndrome was best classified as semantic dementia. Magnetic resonance imaging disclosed slight but progressive cerebral atrophy with prominent callosal and frontal white matter loss. Positron emission tomography demonstrated glucose hypometabolism of the frontal and temporal lobes disproportionate to their structural involvement. This first comprehensive clinical and neuroimaging study in IBMPFD may raise the awareness among clinicians as well as basic scientists for this exemplary genetic model of dementia."}
{"id": "17898350", "title": "Association of the tau haplotype H2 with age at onset and functional alterations of glucose utilization in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Association of the tau haplotype H2 with age at onset and functional alterations of glucose utilization in frontotemporal dementia. The microtubule-associated protein tau gene (MAPT) contains two extended haplotypes, H1 and H2, which have been linked with sporadic tauopathies. However, there is little evidence as to how these haplotypes may influence the clinical features of the disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the MAPT haplotypes in relation to risk for, and functional alterations of glucose metabolism in, patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The authors investigated MAPT haplotypes in 142 individuals with FTD and 292 comparison subjects. Additionally, in a subset of 41 individuals with FTD and 16 comparison subjects, the authors undertook functional [ (18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. MAPT haplotype distribution did not differ significantly between individuals with FTD and comparison subjects. However, the H2 haplotype was clinically associated with an earlier age at onset of FTD, which presented in a dose-dependent manner. Correspondingly, PET analysis revealed functional differences in glucose utilization patterns between MAPT haplotypes, with H2 carriers having a more pronounced hypometabolism in frontal brain areas than H1 carriers, which could not be accounted for by differences in duration of illness. While the extended MAPT H1 and H2 haplotypes do not appear to confer risk for disease development, the H2 haplotype appears to modify age at onset and functionally shows a more severe decline of glucose utilization in frontal brain areas."}
{"id": "17893097", "title": "Thalamic metabolism and symptom onset in preclinical Huntington's disease.", "content": "Thalamic metabolism and symptom onset in preclinical Huntington's disease. The neural basis for the transition from preclinical to symptomatic Huntington's disease (HD) is unknown. We used serial positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in preclinical HD gene carriers (p-HD) to assess the metabolic changes that occur during this period. Twelve p-HD subjects were followed longitudinally with [11C]-raclopride and [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging, with scans at baseline, 18 and 44 months. Progressive declines in striatal D2-receptor binding were correlated with concurrent changes in regional metabolism and in the activity of an HD-related metabolic network. We found that striatal D2 binding declined over time (P < 0.005). The activity of a reproducible HD-related metabolic covariance pattern increased between baseline and 18 months (P < 0.003) but declined at 44 months (P < 0.04). These network changes coincided with progressive declines in striatal and thalamic metabolic activity (P < 0.01). Striatal metabolism was abnormally low at all time points (P < 0.005). By contrast, thalamic metabolism was elevated at baseline (P < 0.01), but fell to subnormal levels in the p-HD subjects who developed symptoms. These findings were confirmed with an MRI-based atrophy correction for each individual PET scan. Increases in network expression and thalamic glucose metabolism may be compensatory for early neuronal losses in p-HD. Declines in these measures may herald the onset of symptoms in gene carriers."}
{"id": "17887964", "title": "Which clinical and experimental data link temporal lobe epilepsy with depression?", "content": "Which clinical and experimental data link temporal lobe epilepsy with depression? The association of temporal lobe epilepsy with depression and other neuropsychiatric disorders has been known since the early beginnings of neurology and psychiatry. However, only recently have in vivo and ex vivo techniques such as Positron Emission Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in combination with refined animal models and behavioral tests made it possible to identify an emerging pattern of common pathophysiological mechanisms. We now have growing evidence that in both disorders altered interaction of serotonergic and noradrenergic neurons with glutamatergic systems is associated with abnormal neuronal circuits and hyperexcitability. Neuronal hyperexcitability can possibly evoke seizure activity as well as disturbed emotions. Moreover, decreased synaptic levels of neurotransmitters and high glucocorticoid levels influence intracellular signaling pathways such as cAMP, causing disturbances of brain-derived and other neurotrophic factors. These may be associated with hippocampal atrophy seen on Magnetic Resonance Imaging and memory impairment as well as altered fear processing and transient hypertrophy of the amygdala. Positron Emission Tomography studies additionally suggest hypometabolism of glucose in temporal and frontal lobes. Last, but not least, in temporal lobe epilepsy and depression astrocytes play a role that reaches far beyond their involvement in hippocampal sclerosis and ultimately, therapeutic regulation of glial-neuronal interactions may be a target for future research. All these mechanisms are strongly intertwined and probably bidirectional such that the structural and functional alterations from one disease increase the risk for developing the other. This review provides an integrative update of the most relevant experimental and clinical data on temporal lobe epilepsy and its association with depression."}
{"id": "17877736", "title": "Deep gray matter hyperperfusion with occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Deep gray matter hyperperfusion with occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies. Although decreased occipital perfusion is a characteristic feature of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), not all patients with DLB show a significant decreased perfusion in the occipital lobe. We explored characteristics of perfusion changes to improve the identification of DLB, in addition to occipital hypoperfusion. Statistical image analysis of single photon emission computed tomography data was performed on 22 patients with DLB and 25 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A significant decreased perfusion in the occipital lobe was found in 16 patients with DLB (72%) and three patients with AD (12%), while a significant increased perfusion in the deep gray matter (striatum and/or thalamus) was found in 18 patients with DLB (81%) and eight patients with AD (31%), respectively. Either occipital hypoperfusion or deep gray matter hyperperfusion was found in 21 patients with DLB (95%), while in nine patients with AD (35%), indicating a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 65% in discriminating DLB from AD. Our results suggest that the addition of deep gray matter hyperperfusion to occipital hypoperfusion may be useful in the clinical differentiation of DLB and AD."}
{"id": "17852756", "title": "Behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia: not all it seems?", "content": "Behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia: not all it seems? The diagnosis of the behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) can be challenging. At present there is a paucity of prospective work addressing the specificity of current diagnostic criteria for bvFTD with respect to long-term outcome (i.e., false positives versus true positives). Here we report two individuals who met current clinical criteria for bvFTD and who underwent detailed long-term clinical and neuropsychological follow-up. In addition, both had serial volumetric MRI and functional metabolic (FDG-PET) imaging separated by 5 years. One case had a slow clinical decline as well as both progressive atrophy and hypometabolism in a frontotemporal distribution, consistent with a neurodegenerative FTD syndrome. However, the second developed neither atrophy nor hypometabolism and remained clinically stable, a decade from symptom onset. We propose that these cases illustrate that while there may be a slow evolution in bvFTD, it is possible that some cases who meet current criteria may not have a neurodegenerative syndrome. If correct, this hypothesis has important implications for the current diagnostic criteria. A potential hierarchy for diagnostic certainty in bvFTD is suggested."}
{"id": "17846410", "title": "Attentional distractibility by optokinetic stimulation in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Attentional distractibility by optokinetic stimulation in Alzheimer disease. Unilateral temporoparietal injury may result in an attentional deficit for stimuli presented in contralesional space. Thus, bilateral temporoparietal degeneration associated with Alzheimer disease (AD) might result in a bilateral attentional disturbance. Tests for hemispatial neglect, however, primarily assess spatial attentional asymmetries, and a bilateral attentional disorder might not be detected with these tests. The goal of this study was to learn whether optokinetic stimulation (OKS) would perturb the balanced attentional deficits of AD patients and alter their spatial allocation of attention. In Experiment I, 10 AD patients with bilateral temporoparietal glucose hypometabolism on PET and 10 controls bisected lines in two conditions: stationary solid lines superimposed on a moving background and \"striped lines\" where the whole line was stationary but the stripes within the line moved. The background OKS or the stripes within the line moved leftward or rightward or were stationary. In Experiment II, to investigate whether the influence of background movements would increase with AD severity, we conducted a similar experiment in 56 patients with various stages of AD. In Experiment I, the line bisection errors (LBEs) of AD subjects, but not of the controls, were markedly influenced by both background and within line stripe motions, deviations occurring in the same direction of movement. In Experiment II, LBEs also occurred in the same direction as background movement and increased with dementia severity. These results demonstrate that patients with Alzheimer disease are spatially distracted by moving stimuli."}
{"id": "17710395", "title": "PET-CT enteroclysis: a new technique for evaluation of inflammatory diseases of the intestine.", "content": "PET-CT enteroclysis: a new technique for evaluation of inflammatory diseases of the intestine. While CT/MR enteroclysis provides excellent anatomical details, it fails to provide information on metabolic activity of the inflammatory lesions of the intestine. We conceptualized a fusion of metabolic imaging techniques such as PET and an anatomical imaging modality such as CT enteroclysis to derive information both on morphological details and functional activity of lesions at the same time. In a prospective study, we included 17 adult patients with newly diagnosed inflammatory diseases of the intestine. Low dose whole body PET-CT scan was obtained first, which began at approximately 60 min after injection of 10 mCi of (18)fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG). Subsequently, PET-CT enteroclysis of the abdomen was performed after infusion of 2 l of 0.5% methylcellulose through a naso-jejunal catheter. Fourteen patients had abnormal and three had normal PET-CT enteroclysis studies. Twenty-three segments of small intestine and 27 segments of large intestine showed increased FDG uptake. The detection rate of PET-CT enteroclysis was significantly higher (total =50 segments, 23 segments of small intestine and 27 segments of large intestine) as compared with barium studies (16 segments of small intestine) and colonoscopy (17 segments of large intestine) combined together (total =33 segments). In addition PET-CT enteroclysis showed extra-luminal FDG uptake (lymph nodes in two, sacroilitis in two, and mesenteric fat proliferation in five). As a single investigation, PET-CT enteroclysis detects a significantly higher number of lesions both in the small and large intestine in comparison to that detected by conventional barium and colonoscopy combined together. This technique is non-invasive, feasible and very promising."}
{"id": "17704526", "title": "FDG-PET improves accuracy in distinguishing frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "FDG-PET improves accuracy in distinguishing frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Distinguishing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) currently relies on a clinical history and examination, but positron emission tomography with [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) shows different patterns of hypometabolism in these disorders that might aid differential diagnosis. Six dementia experts with variable FDG-PET experience made independent, forced choice, diagnostic decisions in 45 patients with pathologically confirmed AD (n = 31) or FTD (n = 14) using five separate methods: (1) review of clinical summaries, (2) a diagnostic checklist alone, (3) summary and checklist, (4) transaxial FDG-PET scans and (5) FDG-PET stereotactic surface projection (SSP) metabolic and statistical maps. In addition, we evaluated the effect of the sequential review of a clinical summary followed by SSP. Visual interpretation of SSP images was superior to clinical assessment and had the best inter-rater reliability (mean kappa = 0.78) and diagnostic accuracy (89.6%). It also had the highest specificity (97.6%) and sensitivity (86%), and positive likelihood ratio for FTD (36.5). The addition of FDG-PET to clinical summaries increased diagnostic accuracy and confidence for both AD and FTD. It was particularly helpful when raters were uncertain in their clinical diagnosis. Visual interpretation of FDG-PET after brief training is more reliable and accurate in distinguishing FTD from AD than clinical methods alone. FDG-PET adds important information that appropriately increases diagnostic confidence, even among experienced dementia specialists."}
{"id": "17634878", "title": "Direct comparison study between FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease using 3D-SSP analysis in the same patients.", "content": "Direct comparison study between FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease using 3D-SSP analysis in the same patients. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the diagnostic ability of 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D: -glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and N-isopropyl-p-(123)I iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography (IMP-SPECT) using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3D-SSP) in patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT were performed within 3 months in 14 patients with probable moderate AD. Z-score maps of FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT images of a patient were obtained by comparison with data obtained from control subjects. Four expert physicians evaluated and graded the glucose hypometabolism and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), focusing in particular on the posterior cingulate gyri/precunei and parietotemporal regions, and determined the reliability for AD. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were applied to the results for clarification. To evaluate the correlation between two modalities, the regions of interest (ROIs) were set in the posterior cingulate gyri/precunei and parietotemporal region on 3D-SSP images, and mean Z-values were calculated. No significant difference was observed in the area under the ROC curve (AUC) between FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT images (FDG-PET 0.95, IMP-SPECT 0.94). However, a significant difference (P < 0.05) was observed in the AUC for the posterior cingulate gyri/precuneus (FDG-PET 0.94, IMP-SPECT 0.81). The sensitivity and specificity of each modality were 86%, and 97% for FDG-PET and 70% and 100% for IMP-SPECT. We could find no significant difference between FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT in terms of diagnosing moderate AD using 3D-SSP. There was a high correlation between the two modalities in the parietotemporal region (Spearman's r = 0.82, P < 0.001). The correlation in the posterior cingulate gyri/precunei region was lower than that in the parietotemporal region (Spearman's r = 0.63, P < 0.016)."}
{"id": "17631544", "title": "Role of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease, with emphasis on brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Role of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease, with emphasis on brain perfusion SPECT. Structural MRI and functional imaging by SPECT as well as 18F-FDG PET are widely used in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Metabolic and perfusion reductions in the parietotemporal association cortex are recognized as a diagnostic pattern for AD. Outstanding progress in the diagnostic accuracy of these modalities has been achieved with statistical analysis on a voxel-by-voxel basis after anatomic standardization of individual scans to a standardized brain volume template instead of visual inspection or a volume-of-interest technique. In a very early stage of AD, this statistical approach revealed losses of gray matter in the entorhinal and hippocampal areas and hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. This statistical approach also offers a prediction of the conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD. The presence of hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in parietal association areas and entorhinal atrophy at the MCI stage have been reported to predict a rapid conversion to AD. A recent advance in voxel-based statistical analysis has markedly enhanced the value of brain perfusion SPECT in diagnosing early AD at the stage of MCI."}
{"id": "17620873", "title": "Amyloid imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Amyloid imaging in Alzheimer's disease. This paper reviews the progress in developing amyloid imaging ligands to be used to measure amyloid in vivo in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Four radioligands, [18F] 1,1-dicyano-2-[6-(dimethylamino)-2-naphtalenyl] propene or 18F-FDDNP, N-methyl [11C] 2-(4'-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiasole or 11C-PIB, 4-N-methylamino-4'-hydroxystilbene [11C] or SB13 and 2-(2-[2-dimethylaminothiazol-5-yl]ethenyl)-6-(2-[fluoro]ethoxy)benzoxazole or 11C-BF-227, have so far been studied in Alzheimer's disease patients and age-matched healthy controls by PET. A robust difference was observed between PIB retention in mild patients and controls. A 2-year follow-up study in mild patients showed a stable level of PIB retention and a decrease in cerebral glucose metabolism and cognition. 18F-FDDNP showed less difference between Alzheimer's disease patients and controls compared with PIB. Both ligands have detected increases in amyloid in the brain of patients with mild cognitive impairment. The new PET amyloid imaging technique is a breakthrough in understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms and time course in amyloid deposits in the brain. The technique will enable early detection of Alzheimer's disease. PET amyloid imaging should be used in the evaluation of new antiamyloid therapies."}
{"id": "17620493", "title": "Positron emission tomography metabolic correlates of apathy in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography metabolic correlates of apathy in Alzheimer disease. Apathy is the most common neuropsychiatric manifestation in Alzheimer disease (AD). Clinical, single-photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and pathologic studies of apathy in AD have suggested an association with frontal dysfunction, most supportive of anterior cingulate abnormalities, but without a definitive localization. To examine the association between apathy and cortical metabolic rate on positron emission tomography in AD. Forty-one subjects with probable AD underwent [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography imaging and neuropsychiatric and cognitive assessments. Global subscale scores from the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms in Alzheimer Disease were used to designate the absence or presence of clinically meaningful apathy. Whole-brain voxel-based analyses were performed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2; Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, London, England), which yielded significance maps comparing the 2 groups. Twenty-seven (66%) subjects did not have apathy, whereas 14 (34%) had apathy. Statistical parametric mapping analysis revealed significant reduced activity in the bilateral anterior cingulate region extending inferiorly to the medial orbitofrontal region (P < .001) and the bilateral medial thalamus (P = .04) in subjects with apathy. The results of the statistical parametric mapping analysis remained the same after individually covarying for the effects of global cognitive impairment, depressed mood, and education. Apathy in AD is associated with reduced metabolic activity in the bilateral anterior cingulate gyrus and medial orbitofrontal cortex and may be associated with reduced activity in the medial thalamus. These results reinforce the confluence of evidence from other investigational modalities in implicating medial frontal dysfunction and related neuronal circuits in the neurobiology of apathy in AD and other neuropsychiatric diseases."}
{"id": "17616482", "title": "Research criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: revising the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria.", "content": "Research criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: revising the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The NINCDS-ADRDA and the DSM-IV-TR criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are the prevailing diagnostic standards in research; however, they have now fallen behind the unprecedented growth of scientific knowledge. Distinctive and reliable biomarkers of AD are now available through structural MRI, molecular neuroimaging with PET, and cerebrospinal fluid analyses. This progress provides the impetus for our proposal of revised diagnostic criteria for AD. Our framework was developed to capture both the earliest stages, before full-blown dementia, as well as the full spectrum of the illness. These new criteria are centred on a clinical core of early and significant episodic memory impairment. They stipulate that there must also be at least one or more abnormal biomarkers among structural neuroimaging with MRI, molecular neuroimaging with PET, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis of amyloid beta or tau proteins. The timeliness of these criteria is highlighted by the many drugs in development that are directed at changing pathogenesis, particularly at the production and clearance of amyloid beta as well as at the hyperphosphorylation state of tau. Validation studies in existing and prospective cohorts are needed to advance these criteria and optimise their sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy."}
{"id": "17613112", "title": "Acupuncture increases cerebral glucose metabolism in human vascular dementia.", "content": "Acupuncture increases cerebral glucose metabolism in human vascular dementia. Recent studies indicate beneficial effects of acupuncture in the rehabilitation of vascular dementia (VaD). This study used 18-flourodeoxyglucose PET measures to compare cerebral effects of conventional acupuncture for hemiplegia with that of additional VaD-specific needling. As compared to baseline, conventional acupuncture increased glucose metabolism in the temporal lobe of unaffected and in the lentiform nucleus of the affected hemisphere. Additional needling in VaD-specific points rendered higher metabolism bilaterally in the frontal lobes and the thalamus, and in the temporal lobe and the lentiform nucleus of the unaffected hemisphere. The findings further underpin acupuncture's role in stroke and VaD rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17600509", "title": "Statistical image analysis of cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with cognitive impairment following diffuse traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Statistical image analysis of cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with cognitive impairment following diffuse traumatic brain injury. The aim of this study was to explore the regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCM) in patients with chronic stage traumatic brain injury (TBI) compared with normal controls. We also investigated the relationship between regional cerebral glucose metabolism and cognitive function. We performed 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) study using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis in 36 diffuse axonal injury (DAI) patients (mean age +/- SD, 36.3 +/- 9.8 years). At 6 months or more after head injury, all patients underwent FDG-PET study and neuropsychological batteries to assess cognitive function. Thirty healthy, gender-matched control subjects who were comparable in age were also studied. Between the TBI patients and normal controls, group comparisons showed regional metabolic decreases in the bilateral frontal lobes, temporal lobes, thalamus, as well as the right cerebellum in the TBI group. Only full-scale Intelligence Quotient (IQ) (mean +/- SD, 78.5 +/- 11.9) correlated positively with rCM in the right cingulate gyrus and the bilateral medial frontal gyrus. In other examinations, the correlation was not provided. DAI may induce functional disconnection and decreased neuronal activity, and finally lead to diffuse glucose hypometabolism. Low full-scale IQ scores may be related to significantly different underlying cognitive impairment. In supporting cognitive function following TBI, which showed diffuse cerebral metabolic reduction compared with normal controls, medial prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex may be an important component."}
{"id": "17574502", "title": "Age-related changes in the metabolic activity and distribution of the red marrow as demonstrated by 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose-positron emission tomography.", "content": "Age-related changes in the metabolic activity and distribution of the red marrow as demonstrated by 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose-positron emission tomography. The objective of the study was to determine age-related changes occurring in red marrow with regard to its distribution and the degree of its metabolic activity by whole-body 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET). This retrospective study included 112 patients (56 male, 56 female, mean age 40 years, range 2-85) who underwent whole-body FDG-PET scans for assessment of disorders that were determined not to affect red marrow activity. These patients were categorized into the following groups with equal gender distribution: 0-15 years (12 individuals), 16-25 years (20), 26-35 years (10), 36-45 years (20), 46-55 years (14), 56-65 years (16), 66-75 years (14), and 76-85 years (6). Whole-body FDG-PET images were performed at 60 min after the intravenous administration of 0.14 mCi/kg of FDG. By employing a dedicated whole-body PET scanner. Maximal standardized uptake value (SUV(max)) was calculated from three consecutive transverse sections of the upper thirds of the humeri and femora, manubrium of the sternum, 12th thoracic and 5th lumbar vertebra and anterior superior iliac crests of the pelvis. All available results from other imaging examinations [magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and conventional radiolography], laboratory data, biopsies, and the clinical course of these subjects were reviewed to make certain that the bone marrow sites examined were free of any known pathologies. SUV(max) in the extremities showed significant decline with aging (correlation coefficient of -0.60 to -0.67, p < 0.01). In contrast, a weak correlation was noted in the axial skeletal activity with advancing age (correlation coefficient of -0.28 to -0.48, p < 0.05). These data suggest that FDG metabolic activity of the red marrow in the extremities decline significantly with normal aging, while that of the axial skeleton show minimal decrease related to this biologic phenomenon. These findings are of value in assessing the effects of hematological and other disorders in the distribution and the metabolic activity of this important tissue and testing therapeutic interventions that are employed for treating such maladies."}
{"id": "17566762", "title": "Detecting hippocampal hypometabolism in Mild Cognitive Impairment using automatic voxel-based approaches.", "content": "Detecting hippocampal hypometabolism in Mild Cognitive Impairment using automatic voxel-based approaches. While the hippocampus is constantly reported as the site of earliest and highest structural alteration in Alzheimer's disease (AD), findings regarding the metabolic status of this region are rather heterogeneous. It has been proposed that only a time-consuming individual region-of-interest (ROI) approach would allow the detection of hypometabolism in this complex and small area. Our main goal with this study is to assess whether more automatic and clinically useful methods would be sensitive enough when considering other methodological confounds. From a single PET data set collected in 28 patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (aMCI) and 19 controls, we assessed the effects of partial volume effect (PVE) correction, scaling (using vermis or global means), and analysis method (individual ROI versus more automatic template-based ROI or voxel-based approaches) on hippocampal hypometabolism detection in aMCI. PVE correction and scaling both showed a significant effect on group comparison, while the analysis method (individual versus template-based ROI) surprisingly did not. Hippocampal metabolic decrease was significant in all vermis-scaled conditions, and more so after PVE correction. Our findings highlight the crucial relevance of using reference-region-based (instead of global) scaling, and the higher sensitivity of PVE-corrected PET measures, to detect hippocampal hypometabolism in aMCI. They also show that hippocampal metabolic decline can be detected using template-based ROI as well as voxel-based methods. These findings have clinical relevance since they support the validity of more automatic and time-saving approaches to assess hippocampal metabolism changes in aMCI and early AD."}
{"id": "17562930", "title": "Accuracy of the clinical evaluation for frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Accuracy of the clinical evaluation for frontotemporal dementia. Without a definitive clinical test, the early diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) can be difficult. To evaluate the accuracy of the clinical evaluation for FTD. Retrospective assessment of consensus criteria for FTD, neuropsychological measures, magnetic resonance images, and single-photon emission computed tomography/positron emission tomography (SPECT/PET) scans at baseline compared with a standard of subsequent clinical diagnosis after follow-up and reevaluation to year 2. University hospital. A total of 134 patients referred for clinical evaluation of suspected FTD. These patients had 1 or more core or supportive features of FTD in the absence of another etiology on initial assessment. Sensitivities, specificities, and predictive values of consensus criteria for FTD, magnetic resonance images, and SPECT/PET scans at initial assessment. The sensitivities and specificities for the diagnosis of FTD were 36.5% and 100.0% for consensus criteria, 63.5% and 70.4% for magnetic resonance images, and 90.5% and 74.6% for SPECT/PET scans, respectively. With a previous prevalence of nearly 50% for FTD, the positive predictive value was greatest for consensus criteria (100.0%), and the negative predictive value was greatest for SPECT/PET (89.8%). The initial neuropsychological results did not distinguish FTD, but the pattern of progression (worse naming and executive functions and preserved constructional ability) helped establish the diagnosis at year 2. Consensus criteria for FTD and neuropsychological measures lacked sensitivity for FTD; however, neuroimaging, particularly functional brain studies, greatly increased the sensitivity of detecting FTD. The clinical diagnosis of FTD needs to combine neuropsychiatric features with SPECT or PET findings while following the changes on neuropsychological tests."}
{"id": "17561953", "title": "Cognitive deficits during status epilepticus and time course of recovery: a case report.", "content": "Cognitive deficits during status epilepticus and time course of recovery: a case report. We describe a young woman with progressive cognitive and neurological deficits during a parietal lobe status epilepticus (SE). Ictal FDG-PET showed left parietal lobe hypermetabolism and frontal lobe hypometabolism with concomitant EEG slowing. Cognitive and neurological deficits fully reversed more than 1 year after seizure remission, and were associated with normalization of FDG-PET and EEG. Our findings suggest that ictal hypometabolism and EEG delta activity at a distance from the epileptic focus were seizure-related phenomena, possibly representing inhibition in seizure propagation pathways, which could be responsible for the epileptic encephalopathy."}
{"id": "17559814", "title": "Altered cerebral glucose metabolism in an animal model of diabetes insipidus: a micro-PET study.", "content": "Altered cerebral glucose metabolism in an animal model of diabetes insipidus: a micro-PET study. The Brattleboro rat is an animal model of genetically induced central diabetes insipidus. These rats show cognitive and behavioral disorders, but no neurodegenerative disease has been observed. We studied brain glucose uptake, a marker of neuronal activity, in 6 Brattleboro rats, in comparison with 6 matched Long-Evans (LE) control rats. A group of 3 Brattleboro rats and 3 Long-Evans rats was studied in vivo and another group of animals was studied ex vivo. In vivo studies were performed using fluorodeoxyglucose labeled with fluorine 18 ((18)F-FDG) and a dedicated small-animal PET device. At 30 min and 60 min p.i., (18)F-FDG uptake was significantly higher in the frontal cortex, striatum, thalamus and cerebellum of Brattleboro rats than in LE rats when measured by PET in vivo (p<0.05), but only a trend towards higher values was found ex vivo. Our results show for the first time that brain glucose metabolism is modified in Brattleboro rats. This altered brain glucose metabolism in Brattleboro rats may be related to the observed cognitive and behavioral disorders. Functional analyses of brain metabolism are promising to investigate cognitive behavioral disturbances observed in Brattleboro rats and their link to diabetes insipidus."}
{"id": "17558256", "title": "Impairment of decision-making cognition in a case of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) presenting with pathologic gambling and hoarding as the initial symptoms.", "content": "Impairment of decision-making cognition in a case of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) presenting with pathologic gambling and hoarding as the initial symptoms. The aim of this study was to use the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) to examine decision-making cognition in a patient with mild frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fv-FTD). Although fv-FTD may present with bizarre and dramatic behavioral changes, traditional executive tasks are sometimes preserved in patients with mild fv-FTD. Some evidence suggests that tasks assessing decision-making cognition, such as the IGT, may be sensitive to detect cognitive dysfunction in patients with mild fv-FTD. Here, we report a patient with fv-FTD who presented with bizarre behavior including hoarding, pathologic gambling, and abnormal sexual behavior. A 54-year-old man who had been diagnosed as having fv-FTD was examined using a behavioral assessment, a wide range of neuropsychologic tasks, and the IGT. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and brain 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography examinations were also performed. Although the patient's cognitive abilities were almost fully preserved for a number of traditional neuropsychologic tasks (memory, executive function), the IGT suggested that his decision-making cognition was impaired. The 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography examination revealed hypometabolism in bilateral medial frontal and orbitofrontal regions of the cerebral cortex, and also in the cingulate gyri. Our findings suggest that the IGT may be a sensitive tool for assessing patients with mild fv-FTD before the development of severe dementia. We speculate that the deficit in decision-making cognition observed in the present case was associated with hypometabolism in the neural networks of the frontal lobe and involving both the bilateral medial frontal and orbitofrontal regions of the cerebral cortex."}
{"id": "17548777", "title": "Cerebral metabolic correlates of the clinical dementia rating scale in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic correlates of the clinical dementia rating scale in mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is often a prodromal state of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Imaging studies have shown that metabolic deficits in cerebral regions known to be affected early by AD pathology are predictive of progression to AD. In the present article, the authors examine associations between clinical impairment (Clinical Dementia Rating scale sum of boxes [CDR-SB]) and regional deficits in glucose utilization in a sample of 41 patients with MCI, who underwent cerebral 18F-FDG PET for the measurement of regional glucose metabolism. A linear regression analysis with CDR-SB score as the independent variable and glucose metabolism as the dependent variable, adjusted for age, gender, and years of school education, was conducted in voxel-by-voxel fashion in SPM2. The regression analysis revealed a significant negative association between CDR-SB score and glucose metabolism in the right posterior cingulate gyrus (P < .001, uncorrected for multiple comparisons), which was independent from demographical variables. The authors conclude that clinical severity of impairments is already correlated with deficits in glucose metabolism in the stage of MCI."}
{"id": "17545731", "title": "Topographic patterns of brain functional impairment progression according to clinical severity staging in 116 Alzheimer disease patients: FDG-PET study.", "content": "Topographic patterns of brain functional impairment progression according to clinical severity staging in 116 Alzheimer disease patients: FDG-PET study. The study aimed to explore topographic progression pattern of brain functional impairment according to clinical stage in Alzheimer disease (AD). One hundred and sixteen AD patients and 25 normal subjects underwent a [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography scan. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was compared between severity groups based on the Clinical Dementia Rating through voxel-based analyses. As clinical severity progressed, hypometabolic areas gradually increased, involving initially posterior cingulate cortex, later temporoparietal, and finally frontal and some subcortical areas. The results indicate that progression patterns of hypometabolism in AD are close to that of typical neuropathology, but that they do not fully coincide with it."}
{"id": "17544447", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia in Oman: cognitive behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics; a prospective hospital-based study.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia in Oman: cognitive behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics; a prospective hospital-based study. Frontotemporal dementia is increasingly recognised as an important cause of early-onset dementia and is considered to be the second commonest neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease. We describe the cognitive, behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics of 6 patients with frontal variant of Frontotemporal dementia that were evaluated at the cognitive behavioural clinic at this tertiary referral teaching hospital. All patients underwent clinical, neuropsychological, structural/functional neuroimaging, and laboratory evaluations. The male to female ratio was 1:1; mean age of onset was 54 years, and the mean duration of symptoms were 30 months. The mean scores for Addenbrooke's cognitive examination, Frontal Assessment Battery, and Mini-Mental State Examination were 70.5, 6.33 and 23.6 respectively. The mean VLOM ratio was 2.04. MRI revealed significant asymmetrical regional frontal/temporal atrophy supplemented by the evidence of circumscribed hypoperfusion in SPECT imaging. We conclude that a combination of behavioural and cognitive assessment using short bedside tests, along with structural and functional neuroimaging does facilitate early identification, and increase the diagnostic specificity of Frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "17533975", "title": "[Positron emission tomography with FDG and newly developed tracers for the assessment of brain metabolism and synaptic function in neurological disorders].", "content": "[Positron emission tomography with FDG and newly developed tracers for the assessment of brain metabolism and synaptic function in neurological disorders]. Positron emission tomography has enabled us to measure various fundamental parameters of human brain physiology and chemistry, such as cerebral blood flow, metabolism and synaptic functions. Blood flow and oxygen metabolism is important for the understanding of cerebro-vascular disease. Glucose metabolism is tightly coupled with brain function and FDG-PET is useful for the determination of epileptic foci and for the evaluation of tumor malignancy. Imaging analysis of functional neuroanatomy of these parameters is very promising for the early diagnosis of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease. Measurement of pre- and post-synaptic function is applicable to the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. In early stage of Parkinson's disease, only presynaptic dopaminergic function is impaired, while in multiple system atrophy with striato-nigral degeneration type, both pre-and post dopaminergic function is reduced. Development of new radiotracers is expected for detection of early specific pathological changes and more previous changes underlying the deterioration of neurochemistry, such as genetic abnormalities."}
{"id": "17531450", "title": "FDG-PET and CSF phospho-tau for prediction of cognitive decline in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "FDG-PET and CSF phospho-tau for prediction of cognitive decline in mild cognitive impairment. Specific patterns of cortical glucose metabolism disturbances and increased CSF phospho-tau (p-tau(181)) concentrations could be demonstrated to predict cognitive decline and shift to dementia in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI). But comparisons of both diagnostic tools have not been undertaken so far. The aim of the study was to compare (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) findings and CSF phospho-tau (p-tau(181)) measurements in the prediction of cognitive deterioration and conversion to dementia in MCI. During follow-up (mean 19 months) eight of 16 patients (50%) showed progressive cognitive decline, and four patients shifted to dementia. Pathological FDG-PET and elevated p-tau(181) levels both predicted deterioration. While p-tau(181) was highly sensitive for cognitive decline, FDG-PET was superior in predicting conversion to clinical dementia in MCI patients."}
{"id": "17524628", "title": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in patients at risk for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in patients at risk for Alzheimer's disease. While significantly reduced glucose metabolism in fronto-temporo-parietal and cingulate cortices has been demonstrated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared with controls, cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with mild cognitive impairment who subsequently develop AD is less well-defined. In the present study we measured cerebral glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography (PET) with (18)F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in 14 patients with aging-associated cognitive decline (AACD), 44 patients with AD, and 14 healthy control subjects at baseline. The AACD patients were clinically followed up, and conversion to AD was determined. Compared with controls, AACD patients had significantly reduced glucose metabolism in the right precuneus, posterior cingulate, right angular gyrus, and bilateral middle temporal cortices, while the respective deficits were more pronounced in AD patients and also involved the frontal cortices. AACD patients who subsequently converted to AD (AACD-converters) showed more extended metabolic changes which also involved the frontal and temporal cortices, right cingulate gyrus, right thalamus, and bilateral precuneus."}
{"id": "17524307", "title": "[Patients treated for differentiated thyroid cancer with negative 131I whole-body scans and elevated thyroglobulin levels: a possible course].", "content": "[Patients treated for differentiated thyroid cancer with negative 131I whole-body scans and elevated thyroglobulin levels: a possible course]. To verify the existence of patients with treated differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) with negative 131I whole-body scanning (WBS) and high serum thyroglobulin (Tg) in the follow-up who evolve towards normalization without other therapy interventions. Retrospective revision of the periodic examinations established in the protocol for patients with DTC, analyzing the levels of Tg found with IRMA annually in those with hormonal treatment and every 1-5 years in absence of previous hormonal treatment to WBS. Minimum surveillance of 2 years. Those who had elevated levels of Tg and WBS and other negative imaging tests in their course were selected. The characteristics of the patients selected were analysed in those whose Tg levels evolved to normalization without specific medical or surgical treatment (Group I) and those who did not reach normalization of Tg (Group II). A total of 130 patients (17.93 %) with high levels of Tg and negative WBS were detected. Group I: 31 patients (4.28 %), 11 men and 20 women; average age at the moment of the diagnosis of 33.4 years (rank: 5-60); average surveillance: 12.4 years (+/- 7.4). 27 papillary and 4 follicular carcinoma. Average ablation dose: 3.260 GBq (88,1 mCi); average total I131 dose: 6.850 GBq (185.13 mCi). Tg normalization average time: 8.2 years. Group II: 99 patients (13.65 %), 27 men and 72 women. Average age of 40.4 years (rank: 7-76). Average surveillance: 9.8 years. 86 papillary and 13 follicular carcinoma. Average ablation dose: 3.266 GBq (88.28 mCi); average total 131I dose: 9.363 GBq (253,06 mCi). Two of the patients in group I had negative PET-FDG. There were 13 patients in whom progressive reduction of the levels of thyroglobulin without reaching normalization with negative PET-FDG was detected. In patients with radiated DTC, deferred normalization of the levels of the serum thyroglobulin is possible. Empirical treatments cannot be considered the only factor that contributes to this result, which can occur without the administration of high-doses of 131I."}
{"id": "17515747", "title": "Impact of PET/CT in comparison with same day contrast enhanced CT in breast cancer management.", "content": "Impact of PET/CT in comparison with same day contrast enhanced CT in breast cancer management. To evaluate the impact of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography with fused computerized tomography (PET/CT) in comparison with same day contrast enhanced CT (CE-CT) in breast cancer management. Seventy studies in 49 breast cancer patients, 17 for initial and 53 for restaging disease were included. All patients underwent PET/CT for diagnostic purposes followed by CE-CT scans of selected body regions. PET/CT was started approximately 90 minutes following IV injection of 10-15 mCi of F-18 FDG on a GE Discovery PET/CT system. Oral contrast was given before F-18 FDG injection. The CE-CT was performed according to departmental protocol. Out of a total of 257 lesions, 210 were concordant between PET/CT and CE-CT. There were 47 discordant lesions, which were verified by either biopsy (35) or follow-up (12 PET positive CE-CT negative lesions). PET/CT correctly identified 25 true positive (TP). CE-CT identified 2 TP lesions missed by PET/CT which were false negatives (FNs): one liver metastasis with necrosis, which was nonavid to FDG uptake because of necrosis and a second one missed on abdominal metastatic node, which did not change staging or treatment. PET/CT incorrectly identified 2 false positive lesions while CE-CT incorrectly identified 18 false positive. TP recurrence of the disease was found by PET/CT in 44% (15/34 pts), whereas 56% (19/34 pts) were free of disease. The CE-CT described progression of the disease in 1 true negative PET/CT study and no progression in 2 TP PET/CT studies. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive productive value, and negative productive value for PET/CT were 97.8%, 93.5%, 97.3%, 99.1%, 85% and for CE-CT were 87.6%, 42%, 82.1%, 91.6%, 31.7%. In this study, PET/CT played a more important role than CE-CT scans alone and provided an impact on the management of breast cancer patients."}
{"id": "17506892", "title": "Latent profile analysis in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and related disorders: clinical presentation and SPECT functional correlates.", "content": "Latent profile analysis in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and related disorders: clinical presentation and SPECT functional correlates. Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) thus recently renamed, refers to a spectrum of heterogeneous conditions. This same heterogeneity of presentation represents the major methodological limit for the correct evaluation of clinical designation and brain functional correlates. At present, no study has investigated clinical clusters due to specific cognitive and behavioural disturbances beyond current clinical criteria. The aim of this study was to identify clinical FTLD presentation, based on cognitive and behavioural profile, and to define their SPECT functional correlations. Ninety-seven FTLD patients entered the study. A clinical evaluation and standardised assessment were preformed, as well as a brain SPECT perfusion imaging study. Latent Profile Analysis on clinical, neuropsychological, and behavioural data was performed. Voxel-basis analysis of SPECT data was computed. Three specific clusters were identified and named \"pseudomanic behaviour\" (LC1), \"cognitive\" (LC2), and \"pseudodepressed behaviour\" (LC3) endophenotypes. These endophenotypes showed a comparable hypoperfusion in left temporal lobe, but a specific pattern involving: medial and orbitobasal frontal cortex in LC1, subcortical brain region in LC2, and right dorsolateral frontal cortex and insula in LC3. These findings provide evidence that specific functional-cluster symptom relationship can be delineated in FTLD patients by a standardised assessment. The understanding of the different functional correlates of clinical presentations will hopefully lead to the possibility of individuating diagnostic and treatment algorithms."}
{"id": "17494666", "title": "Multimodality imaging of cortical and white matter abnormalities in Sturge-Weber syndrome.", "content": "Multimodality imaging of cortical and white matter abnormalities in Sturge-Weber syndrome. Impaired cortical venous outflow and abnormal deep venous collaterals are common in Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), but their relation to brain metabolism and function is poorly understood. In this study, advanced MR imaging techniques, such as susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), were applied in conjunction with positron-emission tomography (PET), to assess cortical and white matter structural abnormalities and their relation to cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive functions in children with unilateral SWS. Thirteen children (age, 1.5-10.3 years) with unilateral SWS underwent MR imaging with SWI and DTI, glucose metabolism PET, and comprehensive neuropsychologic assessment prospectively. The MR imaging and PET images were coregistered and cortical regions showing decreased glucose metabolism were compared with locations of SWI signal intensity abnormalities, changes in white matter water diffusion, and cognitive functions. SWI detected both cortical abnormalities (n=8) and deep transmedullary veins (n=9), including those in young children with no cortical SWI signal intensity changes. These veins were often located under cortex adjacent to hypometabolic regions. DTI showed abnormal water diffusion both under hypometabolic cortex and in adjacent white matter with collateral veins. Cognitive dysfunction was associated with abnormal water diffusion in the posterior white matter. Transmedullary venous collaterals can be detected early by SWI and persist in white matter adjacent to damaged cortex in children with SWS. Microstructural white matter damage extends beyond cortical abnormalities and may contribute to cognitive impairment. SWI and DTI can be incorporated into clinical MR imaging acquisitions to objectively assess microstructural abnormalities at different stages of SWS."}
{"id": "17481663", "title": "Neuropsychological and 18FDG-PET studies in a family with idiopathic basal ganglia calcifications.", "content": "Neuropsychological and 18FDG-PET studies in a family with idiopathic basal ganglia calcifications. Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (FIBGC) is a rare autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease, the main clinical signs of which are parkinsonism, cognitive deterioration and/or psychiatric troubles. Familial forms are rare. The underlying basis is not known. We performed detailed neurological, neuropsychological, brain CT scans and MRI evaluations in 15 patients of a large FIBGC family. Three patients also underwent a (18)FDG-PET scan study not previously performed in patients with FIBGC. Basal ganglia calcifications were present in 8 individuals, 3 of which had schizophrenia-like psychosis, cognitive and/or extrapyramidal signs. The mean age at disease onset was 34.0+/-3.6 years. Two patients had moderate executive dysfunction, whereas the proband had more severe dementia. (18)FDG uptake was significantly reduced in striatal or cortical areas, including the precuneus, posterior cingulate and superior temporal gyri. This study shows that calcifications and striatal neuronal degeneration can occur independently, and that functional changes in cortical areas can be observed early in FIBGC. Hypometabolism in the precuneus and posterior cingulate gyrus, which are involved in episodic memory processing, could be responsible for the episodic memory deficit found in the patients. Whether the underlying mechanism involves a neuronal loss or a functional alteration remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "17479980", "title": "Male gender is associated with greater cerebral hypometabolism in frontotemporal dementia: evidence for sex-related cognitive reserve.", "content": "Male gender is associated with greater cerebral hypometabolism in frontotemporal dementia: evidence for sex-related cognitive reserve. Neuropathological studies suggest that the association between neurodegenerative brain damage and clinical symptoms may be stronger in women than in men; therefore women are more likely to express neurodegeneration as clinical dementia. Furthermore, a recent 18F-FDG PET study explored gender differences in the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) in patients with Alzheimer's disease and found that, at the same level of severity of cognitive impairment, men showed a significantly greater hypometabolism than women. This suggests that men can compensate more pathology than women. To test the hypothesis that cerebral metabolic deficits due to neurodegeneration are more pronounced in men than in women with frontotemporal dementia (FTD), controlling for cognitive impairment. Twenty-nine patients with FTD (20 men, nine women) underwent an extensive clinical examination and 18F-FDG PET imaging at a university-based outpatient unit for cognitive disorders. An analysis of covariance (with age, total score of the CERAD neuropsychological battery, and years of school education as co-variates) was conducted to identify gender differences in glucose metabolism. Frontal cortical regions were identified where rCMRglc was significantly reduced in men as compared with women. These regions were located in the left middle, superior, and inferior frontal gyri and the right anterior cingulate, and superior frontal gyri (p < 0.001 uncorrected for multiple comparisons). The same level of severity of cognitive symptoms is associated with a more pronounced functional brain damage in male than in female patients with FTD, suggesting a greater degree of cognitive reserve in men."}
{"id": "17478085", "title": "Positron emission tomography study of regional brain metabolic responses to a serotonergic challenge in major depressive disorder with and without comorbid lifetime alcohol dependence.", "content": "Positron emission tomography study of regional brain metabolic responses to a serotonergic challenge in major depressive disorder with and without comorbid lifetime alcohol dependence. This is the first study contrasting regional glucose metabolic rate (rCMRglu) responses to a serotonergic challenge in major depressive disorder (MDD) with and without comorbid alcohol dependence. In a university hospital, patients with MDD without a history of alcohol dependence (MDD only) and patients with MDD and comorbid alcohol dependence (MDD/ALC) were enrolled in this study. Subjects with comorbid borderline personality disorder were excluded. A bolus injection of approximately 5 mCi of (18)fluorodeoxyglucose was administered 3 h after the administration of placebo or fenfluramine. We found an anterior medial prefrontal cortical area where MDD/ALC subjects had more severe hypofrontality than MDD only patients. This area encompassed the left medial frontal and left and right anterior cingulate gyri. This group difference disappeared after fenfluramine administration. The fact that the observed group difference disappeared after the fenfluramine challenge suggests that serotonergic mechanisms play a role in the observed differences between the groups."}
{"id": "17475957", "title": "Comparison of regional brain volume and glucose metabolism between patients with mild dementia with lewy bodies and those with mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparison of regional brain volume and glucose metabolism between patients with mild dementia with lewy bodies and those with mild Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate regional differences between morphologic and functional changes in patients with mild dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) compared with those with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Twenty patients with very mild DLB (mean age, 74.5 y; mean Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] score, 24.0), 20 patients with very mild AD (mean age, 74.1 y; mean MMSE score, 24.0), and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers (normal controls [NC]) underwent both (18)F-FDG PET and 3-dimensional spoiled gradient echo MRI. Fully automatic volumetry of the MRI data was used to obtain whole brain, hippocampal, occipital, and striatal volumes, which were compared with the results of a similar analysis of glucose metabolic data. In DLB patients, volumetric data indicated a significant volume decrease in the striatum, whereas (18)F-FDG PET showed significant glucose metabolic reductions in the temporal, parietal, and frontal areas--including in the occipital lobe--compared with those in the NC group. In contrast, in AD patients, both the hippocampal volume and glucose metabolism were significantly decreased, whereas the occipital volume and metabolism were preserved. Comparison of very mild DLB and AD revealed different morphologic and metabolic changes occurring in the medial temporal lobes and the occipital lobe, demonstrating characteristic pathophysiologic differences between these 2 diseases."}
{"id": "17457029", "title": "Metabolic correlates of brain reserve in dementia with Lewy bodies: an FDG PET study.", "content": "Metabolic correlates of brain reserve in dementia with Lewy bodies: an FDG PET study. Studies suggest that brain reserve allows patients with more years of schooling to cope better with brain damage. Research has been mainly focussed on Alzheimer's disease and no studies exist on patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The aim of this study was to provide evidence for brain reserve in DLB. Twenty-one consecutive patients with DLB and 16 age-matched healthy controls were included. The participants underwent cerebral (18)F-FDG PET imaging at rest. A group comparison was conducted in SPM2 between the patient and control groups. A linear regression analysis with glucose metabolism as the dependent and years of schooling as the independent variable was performed. Age, gender and a total score of the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease neuropsychological battery were included as covariates into the analysis. The patients showed a significant metabolic reduction in the frontal and posterior association cortices, the basal ganglia and the pulvinar of the thalami. Glucose metabolism and education showed an inverse relationship in an extensive cluster in the left temporo-parieto-occipital cortex. Similar findings were previously reported in Alzheimer's disease and are regarded as evidence for brain reserve. Therefore, we suggest that brain reserve is also present in DLB."}
{"id": "17455105", "title": "Clinical improvement in a case of frontotemporal dementia under aripiprazole treatment corresponds to partial recovery of disturbed frontal glucose metabolism.", "content": "Clinical improvement in a case of frontotemporal dementia under aripiprazole treatment corresponds to partial recovery of disturbed frontal glucose metabolism. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is increasingly recognized as an important type of degenerative dementia but satisfactory pharmacological treatment has not yet been established. We examined the clinical effects of aripiprazole, a new antipsychotic with partial agonistic properties at serotonin 5-HT(1A) and dopamine D(2) receptors, in parallel with cortical glucose metabolism changes. We conducted a follow-up investigation of clinical status and (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in a 73-year-old male patient with FTD over a 13-month period. Under conventional drug treatment during the first 12 months a marked increase in dementia symptoms was observed. Frontal lobe glucose metabolism clearly decreased during this time period. Under consecutive treatment with aripiprazole a significant and stable improvement of clinical symptoms could be registered, while disturbed frontal glucose metabolism increased significantly. According to this case experience, further investigations should be undertaken to ascertain whether aripiprazole or other atypical antipsychotics with properties to improve impaired dopaminergic transmission in frontal brain regions could qualify for therapy of FTD."}
{"id": "17446028", "title": "Imaging treatment effects in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging treatment effects in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest form of degenerative dementia and is characterised by progressive cognitive decline. Despite extensive research, the cause of AD is unknown and there is no cure at present. Of the deficits found in AD, that affecting the cholinergic neurotransmitter system is the best established and the only one translated into symptomatic treatment. Cholinergic enhancement with cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) drugs has been achieved and their efficacy and safety ascertained by conventional clinical trials. The mechanism of action of these drugs, however, is not well understood. Imaging with SPECT, PET, MRI and fMRI after treatment has clarified what happens in the brains of those AD patients treated with ChEI drugs. Studies with these techniques have identified increases in brain blood flow and glucose metabolism, restoration of nicotinic receptor function and re-establishment of task-related regional brain activation in response to cognitive stimulation after treatment. Structural MRI studies have explained, to some degree, why only a proportion of patients benefits from ChEI treatment and there is some evidence that some ChEI drugs might be neuroprotective. There are, however, many unsolved problems. Timing of treatment intervention to obtain maximum response and the determinants of treatment response are mostly unknown. It is also unclear whether administration of treatment in those patients who have no potential for response accelerates disease progression. These issues cannot be solved by conventional clinical trials. Pharmacoimaging studies could assist the development and refinement of drugs to treat those diseases, such as AD, which affect the central nervous system."}
{"id": "17413016", "title": "Imaging and CSF studies in the preclinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging and CSF studies in the preclinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. It is widely believed that the path to early and effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires the development of early diagnostic markers that are both sensitive and specific. To this aim, using longitudinal study designs, we and others have examined magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG/PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in cognitively normal elderly (NL) subjects and in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Such investigations have led to the often replicated findings that structural evidence of hippocampal atrophy as determined by MRI, as well as metabolic evidence from FDG-PET scan of hippocampal damage, predicts the conversion from MCI to AD. In this article we present a growing body of evidence of even earlier diagnosis. Brain pathology can be detected in NL subjects and used to predict future transition to MCI. This prediction is enabled by examinations revealing reduced glucose metabolism in the hippocampal formation (hippocampus and entorhinal cortex [EC]) as well as by the rate of medial temporal lobe atrophy as determined by MRI. However, neither regional atrophy nor glucose metabolism reductions are specific for AD. These measures provide secondary not primary evidence for AD. Consequently, we will also summarize recent efforts to improve the diagnostic specificity by combining imaging with CSF biomarkers and most recently by evaluating amyloid imaging using PET. We conclude that the combined use of conventional imaging, that is MRI or FDG-PET, with selected CSF biomarkers incrementally contributes to the early and specific diagnosis of AD. Moreover, selected combinations of imaging and CSF biomarkers measures are of importance in monitoring the course of AD and thus relevant to evaluating clinical trials."}
{"id": "17413018", "title": "Quantitative EEG and electromagnetic brain imaging in aging and in the evolution of dementia.", "content": "Quantitative EEG and electromagnetic brain imaging in aging and in the evolution of dementia. Electroencephalographic (EEG) changes with normal aging have long been reported. Departures from age-expected changes have been observed in mild cognitive impairment and dementia, the magnitude of which correlates with the degree of cognitive impairment. Such abnormalities include increased delta and theta activity, decreased mean frequency, and changes in coherence. Similar findings have been reported using magnetoencephalography (MEG) at rest and during performance of mental tasks. Electrophysiological features have also been shown to be predictive of future decline in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have recently reported results from initial quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) evaluations of normal elderly subjects (with only subjective reports of memory loss), predicting future cognitive decline or conversion to dementia, with high prediction accuracy (approximately 95%). In this report, source localization algorithms were used to identify the mathematically most probable underlying generators of abnormal features of the scalp-recorded EEG from these patients with differential outcomes. Using this QEEG method, abnormalities in brain regions identified in studies of AD using MEG, MRI, and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging were found in the premorbid recordings of those subjects who go on to decline or convert to dementia."}
{"id": "17412610", "title": "Atrophy is associated with posterior cingulate white matter disruption in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Atrophy is associated with posterior cingulate white matter disruption in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease. Hippocampal atrophy and posterior cingulate hypometabolism are common features of both Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). These regions show correlated activity at rest as part of the 'default network', and they are connected by the cingulum, a white matter (WM) tract. We hypothesised that hippocampal atrophy would be associated with disruption of the cingulum, as determined by diffusion tensor imaging. We recruited 15 people with AD, 16 with DLB, and 15 healthy control subjects of similar age. They were scanned on a 1.5 T MRI system with a T1 weighted 3D sequence and diffusion tensor FLAIR imaging. The T1 images were segmented into grey and white matter and spatially normalised using SPM. Hippocampal atrophy was estimated by calculating the mean grey matter (GM) volume from a region of interest in standard space and global atrophy from the total CSF segmentation. Fractional anisotropy (FA) maps were calculated and also spatially normalised. Using SPM, a multivariate correlation of FA against hippocampal GM, global atrophy and disease group was performed. We found a bilateral region adjacent to the posterior cingulate and encompassing a branch of the cingulum where global atrophy correlated with fractional anisotropy, after controlling for diagnosis and hippocampal GM. The results suggest that dementia disease progression as measured by global atrophy is associated with disruption of the white matter which connects posterior cingulate and lateral parietal regions. Hence, in addition to the hypometabolism in these regions in AD and DLB, there is also disruption to the white matter connecting them. Future studies are needed to determine whether the disruption precedes or is consequent on atrophy or hypometabolism."}
{"id": "17406865", "title": "Quantitation, regional vulnerability, and kinetic modeling of brain glucose metabolism in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantitation, regional vulnerability, and kinetic modeling of brain glucose metabolism in mild Alzheimer's disease. To examine CMRglc measures and corresponding glucose transport (K1 and k2) and phosphorylation (k3) rates in the medial temporal lobe (MTL, comprising the hippocampus and amygdala) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Dynamic FDG PET with arterial blood sampling was performed in seven mild AD patients (age 68+/-8 years, four females, median MMSE 23) and six normal (NL) elderly (age 69+/-9 years, three females, median MMSE 30). Absolute CMRglc (micromol/100 g/min) was calculated from MRI-defined regions of interest using multiparametric analysis with individually fitted kinetic rate constants, Gjedde-Patlak plot, and Sokoloff's autoradiographic method with population-based rate constants. Relative ROI/pons CMRglc (unitless) was also examined. With all methods, AD patients showed significant CMRglc reductions in the hippocampus and PCC, and a trend towards reduced parietotemporal CMRglc, as compared with NL. Significant k3 reductions were found in the hippocampus, PCC and amygdala. K1 reductions were restricted to the hippocampus. Relative CMRglc had the largest effect sizes in separating AD from NL. However, the magnitude of CMRglc reductions was 1.2- to 1.9-fold greater with absolute than with relative measures. CMRglc reductions are most prominent in the MTL and PCC in mild AD, as detected with both absolute and relative CMRglc measures. Results are discussed in terms of clinical and pharmaceutical applicability."}
{"id": "17400599", "title": "Microglial activation in presymptomatic Huntington's disease gene carriers.", "content": "Microglial activation in presymptomatic Huntington's disease gene carriers. Microglial activation may play a role in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). Using 11C-(R)-PK11195 (PK) positron emission tomography (PET), we investigated microglial activation in HD presymptomatic gene carriers (PGCs), its relationship with striatal neuronal dysfunction measured with 11C-raclopride (RAC) PET, and the role of PK PET as a possible marker of subclinical disease progression in PGCs. Eleven HD PGCs underwent PK and RAC PET. Their results were compared with those of healthy controls. PK and RAC binding was measured using region-of-interest analysis. Regional increases in PK binding were also localized with voxel-based statistical parametric mapping. HD PGCs had lower striatal RAC binding than the controls but significantly higher striatal and cortical PK binding. Individual levels of higher striatal PK binding in PGCs correlated with lower striatal RAC binding and, after excluding one outlier, with a higher probability of developing HD in 5 years. The inverse association between striatal PK and RAC binding in PGCs continues into early to moderate stages of HD. This study demonstrated for the first time in vivo widespread microglial activation in preclinical HD which correlated with striatal neuronal dysfunction. These findings indicate that microglial activation is an early event in the pathogenic processes of HD and is associated with subclinical progression of disease. PK PET may be a useful marker of active subclinical disease and a means of investigating the efficacy of neuroprotection strategies in PGCs."}
{"id": "17400326", "title": "Bradykinesia in cirrhotic patients with early hepatic encephalopathy is related to a decreased glucose uptake of frontomesial cortical areas relevant for movement initiation.", "content": "Bradykinesia in cirrhotic patients with early hepatic encephalopathy is related to a decreased glucose uptake of frontomesial cortical areas relevant for movement initiation. Bradykinesia is one of the first symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Recently it has been suggested that bradykinesia in HE is due to disturbances in movement initiation. Areas involved in self-initiated movement are the motor- and premotor cortex, the supplementary motor cortex, the motor areas of the cingulate gyrus, and part of the frontomesial- and parietal cortex. The present study aimed to test the hypothesis that bradykinesia in HE is due to a functional disturbance of these areas. Fourteen cirrhotics with grade 0-I HE were examined. Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis or concomitant cerebral disorder were excluded. Patients underwent a 3-dimensional computer-assisted movement analysis for forearm pronation and supination, hand tapping and finger tapping and a (18)F-fluorodesoxy-glucose-PET-examination during rest, analysed with statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). The frequency of finger- and hand tapping was significantly correlated to the glucose metabolism of the motor area of the cingulate gyrus and frontomedial, frontodorsal and parietal cortical areas known to be activated with self-initiated movements. A decrease of movement frequency was associated with a reduction of glucose metabolism within these areas. These data support the hypothesis that bradykinesia in cirrhotics with HE is caused by an alteration of movement initiation."}
{"id": "17385079", "title": "Metabolic correlates of executive dysfunction. Different patterns in mild and very mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Metabolic correlates of executive dysfunction. Different patterns in mild and very mild Alzheimer's disease. This study was designed to examine the correlations between resting-state brain glucose metabolism (CMRglc), as measured with Positron Emission Tomography and performance on executive function tasks in Alzheimer's disease (AD), while taking into account the severity of cognitive deterioration. We addressed this issue in 50 AD patients, classified as very mild (n = 22) and mild (n = 28) AD on the basis of an extensive neuropsychological battery. Thirteen healthy subjects were selected as controls for the neuropsychological measures. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) was used to examine voxel-wise correlations between CMRglc and scores on selected cognitive tests of executive functions: the Stroop Test, the Trail Making Test, the Dual Task and the Phonemic Fluency, while correcting for age and global CMRglc. All analyses were done separately for the two AD subgroups. The very mild AD patients showed significant associations between Stroop and Trail Making Test scores and prefrontal regions metabolism, whereas the mild AD patients exhibited more widely distributed cognitive-metabolic correlations extending to the posterior brain regions. These data suggest that a large cortical network is implicated in executive dysfunction in AD, and that the pattern of cognitive-metabolic correlations varies according to disease severity."}
{"id": "17381257", "title": "Social mind representation: where does it fail in frontotemporal dementia?", "content": "Social mind representation: where does it fail in frontotemporal dementia? We aimed at investigating social disability and its cerebral correlates in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). To do so, we contrasted answers of patients with early-stage FTD and of their relatives on personality trait judgment and on behavior prediction in social and emotional situations. Such contrasts were compared to control contrasts calculated with answers of matched controls tested with their relatives. In addition, brain metabolism was measured in patients with positron emission tomography and the [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose method. Patients turned out to be as accurate as controls in describing their relative's personality, but they failed to predict their relative's behavior in social and emotional circumstances. Concerning the self, patients were impaired both in current personality assessment and in prediction of their own behavior. Those two self-evaluation measures did not correlate. Only patients' anosognosia for social behavioral disability was found to be related to decreased metabolic activity in the left temporal pole. Such results suggest that anosognosia for social disability in FTD originates in impaired processing of emotional autobiographical information, leading to a self-representation that does not match current behavior. Moreover, we propose that perspective-taking disability participates in anosognosia, preventing patients from correcting their inaccurate self-representation based on their relative's perspective."}
{"id": "17321756", "title": "Where the brain grows old: decline in anterior cingulate and medial prefrontal function with normal aging.", "content": "Where the brain grows old: decline in anterior cingulate and medial prefrontal function with normal aging. Even healthy adults worry about declines in mental efficiency with aging. Subjective changes in mental flexibility, self-regulation, processing speed, and memory are often cited. We show here that focal decreases in brain activity occur with normal aging as measured with fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. The largest declines localize to a medial network including the anterior cingulate/medial prefrontal cortex, dorsomedial thalamus, and sugenual cingulate/basal forebrain. Declining metabolism in this network correlates with declining cognitive function. The medial prefrontal metabolic changes with aging are similar in magnitude to the hypometabolism found in Mild Cognitive Impairment or Alzheimer's disease. These results converge with data from healthy elderly indicating dysfunction in the anterior attention system. The interaction of attention in the anterior cingulate cortex with memory in the medial temporal lobe may explain the global impairment that defines dementia. Despite the implications for an aging population, the neurophysiologic mechanisms of these metabolic decreases remain unknown."}
{"id": "17299049", "title": "Selective defect of in vivo glycolysis in early Huntington's disease striatum.", "content": "Selective defect of in vivo glycolysis in early Huntington's disease striatum. Activity of complexes II, III, and IV of the mitochondrial electron transport system (ETS) is reduced in postmortem Huntington's disease (HD) striatum, suggesting that reduced cerebral oxidative phosphorylation may be important in the pathogenesis of neuronal death. We investigated mitochondrial oxidative metabolism in vivo in the striatum of 20 participants with early, genetically proven HD and 15 age-matched normal controls by direct measurements of the molar ratio of cerebral oxygen metabolism to cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRO(2)/CMRglc) with positron emission tomography. There was a significant increase in striatal CMRO(2)/CMRglc in HD rather than the decrease characteristic of defects in mitochondrial oxidative metabolism (6.0 +/- 1.6 vs. 5.1 +/- 0.9, P = 0.04). CMRO(2) was not different from controls (126 +/- 37 vs. 134 +/- 31 micromol 100 g(-1) min(-1), P = 0.49), whereas CMRglc was decreased (21.6 +/- 6.1 vs. 26.4 +/- 4.6 micromol 100 g(-1) min(-1), P = 0.01). Striatal volume was decreased as well (13.9 +/- 3.5 vs. 17.6 +/- 2.0 ml, P = 0.001). Increased striatal CMRO(2)/CMRglc with unchanged CMRO(2) is inconsistent with a defect in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation due to reduced activity of the mitochondrial ETS. Because HD pathology was already manifest by striatal atrophy, deficient energy production due to a reduced activity of the mitochondrial ETS is not important in the mechanism of neuronal death in early HD. Because glycolytic metabolism is predominantly astrocytic, the selective reduction in striatal CMRglc raises the possibility that astrocyte dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of HD."}
{"id": "17260333", "title": "Prefrontal cortex dysfunction and depression in atypical parkinsonian syndromes.", "content": "Prefrontal cortex dysfunction and depression in atypical parkinsonian syndromes. Depressive symptoms are common in patients with neurodegenerative disorders. Imaging studies suggest that a disruption of frontal-subcortical pathways may underlie depression associated with basal ganglia disease. This pilot study tested the hypothesis that frontal dysfunction contributes to depression associated with multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Depressed patients with MSA (n = 11), PSP (n = 9), and age-matched controls (n = 25) underwent measures of cerebral glucose metabolism applying positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose. Regional metabolism in the patient groups was compared to the normal subjects using the voxel-based statistical parametric mapping. Depressive symptom severity (Hamilton Depression Rating) and degree of locomotor disability (Hoehn & Yahr) were assessed in the patient groups. The association between prefrontal metabolism and the occurrence of depressive symptoms and the degree of locomotor disability was investigated. When compared to controls, MSA patients revealed significant metabolic decreases in bilateral frontal, parietal, and cerebellar cortex and in the left putamen. In PSP patients, significant hypometabolism was demonstrated in bilateral frontal cortex, right thalamus, and midbrain. Depression severity but not the patients' functional condition was significantly associated with dorsolateral prefrontal glucose metabolism in both patient groups. The findings of this pilot study support the hypothesis that depressive symptoms in MSA and PSP are associated with prefrontal dysfunction."}
{"id": "17254803", "title": "Regional coherence changes in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease: a combined structural and resting-state functional MRI study.", "content": "Regional coherence changes in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease: a combined structural and resting-state functional MRI study. Recent functional imaging studies have indicated that the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be associated with the changes in spontaneous low-frequency (<0.08 Hz) blood oxygenation level-dependent fluctuations (LFBF) measured during a resting state. The purpose of this study was to examine regional LFBF coherence patterns in early AD and the impact of regional brain atrophy on the functional results. Both structural MRI and resting-state functional MRI scans were collected from 14 AD subjects and 14 age-matched normal controls. We found significant regional coherence decreases in the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus (PCC/PCu) in the AD patients when compared with the normal controls. Moreover, the decrease in the PCC/PCu coherence was correlated with the disease progression measured by the Mini-Mental State Exam scores. The changes in LFBF in the PCC/PCu may be related to the resting hypometabolism in this region commonly detected in previous positron emission tomography studies of early AD. When the regional PCC/PCu atrophy was controlled, these results still remained significant but with a decrease in the statistical power, suggesting that the LFBF results are at least partly explained by the regional atrophy. In addition, we also found increased LFBF coherence in the bilateral cuneus, right lingual gyrus and left fusiform gyrus in the AD patients. These regions are consistent with previous findings of AD-related increased activation during cognitive tasks explained in terms of a compensatory-recruitment hypothesis. Finally, our study indicated that regional brain atrophy could be an important consideration in functional imaging studies of neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "17219132", "title": "Brain reserve capacity in frontotemporal dementia: a voxel-based 18F-FDG PET study.", "content": "Brain reserve capacity in frontotemporal dementia: a voxel-based 18F-FDG PET study. The association of the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose utilisation (rCMRglc) and years of schooling has been extensively studied in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The results suggest that brain reserve capacity (BRC) allows patients with more years of schooling to cope better with AD pathology. The objective of this study was to provide initial evidence for BRC in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Twenty-nine patients with FTD and 16 healthy age- and education-matched controls underwent PET imaging of the brain with 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose. A group comparison of rCMRglc was conducted between patients and controls and the output was saved as region of interest (ROI). A linear regression analysis with education as the independent and rCMRglc as the dependent variable, adjusted for age, gender and total score on the CERAD neuropsychological battery, was conducted in SPM2 over the pre-assigned ROI. Patients showed a reduced rCMRglc in almost the entire prefrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate cortex as compared with controls (p < 0.05 corrected for multiple comparisons). The regression analysis revealed a significant negative association between years of schooling and rCMRglc in the bilateral inferior frontal cortex (p < 0.001, uncorrected for multiple comparisons), which was independent of demographic variables and cognitive performance level. There was a strong negative correlation of rCMRglc and education (r = -0.45). The study provides initial evidence for BRC in FTD. The findings suggest that interindividual differences in educational level affect BRC by partially mediating the relationship between neurodegeneration and the clinical manifestation of FTD."}
{"id": "17218157", "title": "Fluctuating Kluver-Bucy syndrome in a child with epilepsy due to bilateral anterior temporal congenital malformations.", "content": "Fluctuating Kluver-Bucy syndrome in a child with epilepsy due to bilateral anterior temporal congenital malformations. An 11-year-old boy with epilepsy due to congenital bilateral anterior temporal lobe malformations presented with fluctuating Kluver-Bucy syndrome (KBS). Since the age of 2, he had experienced clusters of three or four daily complex partial seizures over 2-3 days in a month, followed by a seizure-free interval of 3-4 weeks. During the seizure-free period, the patient exhibited hyperorality, sniffing, irritability alternating with placidity, anxiety, unsolicited sexual gestures, and unusual calmness after eating. KBS features escalated up to the onset of the seizure cluster, and remitted after the seizures. Brain MRI revealed bilateral anterior temporal cortical dysplasia with enlarged and dysmorphic amygdalar-hippocampal complex. Brain [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography PET showed bilateral anterior and mesial temporal hypometabolism. Video/EEG monitoring revealed independent right and left temporal lobe seizures. This is the first reported case of KBS due to congenital bitemporal malformations. Also, KBS behavior phenotype in this patient fluctuated, with escalation during the seizure-free period and remission induced by the monthly seizure cluster. This fluctuating pattern could represent forced normalization."}
{"id": "17202431", "title": "Clinicopathologic features of frontotemporal dementia with progranulin sequence variation.", "content": "Clinicopathologic features of frontotemporal dementia with progranulin sequence variation. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-immunoreactive (ub-ir) inclusions (FTLD-U) has been associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and ALS. Recently, mutations in Progranulin (PGRN), predicted to cause premature truncation of the PGRN coding sequence, were found in patients with inherited FTLD-U and ub-ir neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NII). To describe clinical, pathologic, and genetic features of three FTD patients having either a family history of FTD (A.III.1 and B.II.1) or of ALS (C.III.1). Patients underwent a single clinical assessment, MRI, and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET brain scan. Neuropathologic examination and genetic analyses were carried out. Patients presented clinically with the behavioral variant of FTD. Language dysfunctions were marked with comprehension being particularly affected. Neuroimaging revealed frontotemporal atrophy and glucose hypometabolism, with predominant left-side involvement, in Patients A.III.1 and B.II.1. Subject C.III.1 displayed mild atrophy and symmetric anterior hypometabolism. All patients were neuropathologically diagnosed with FTLD-U. Ub-ir NII were noted in Patients A.III.1 and B.II.1 but were absent in Patient C.III.1. The following PGRN sequence variations were found: IVS6-2A-->G (A.III.1), R493X (B.II.1), and R433W (C.III.1). IVS6-2A-->G may lead to skipping of exon 7 with consequent frameshift of the coding sequence and premature termination of PGRN translation. We have found two PGRN mutations associated with FTD, in affected individuals who are members of families with possible autosomal dominant FTD. A third PGRN sequence variation (R433W) was found in an FTD patient with family history of ALS."}
{"id": "17200485", "title": "Diffusion tensor imaging of cingulum fibers in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Diffusion tensor imaging of cingulum fibers in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease. Neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer disease (AD) generally shows medial temporal lobe atrophy and diminished glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow in the posterior cingulate gyrus. However, it is unclear whether these abnormalities also impact the cingulum fibers, which connect the medial temporal lobe and the posterior cingulate regions. To use diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), by measuring fractional anisotropy (FA), to test 1) if MCI and AD are associated with DTI abnormalities in the parahippocampal and posterior cingulate regions of the cingulum fibers; 2) if white matter abnormalities extend to the neocortical fiber connections in the corpus callosum (CC); 3) if DTI improves accuracy to separate AD and MCI from healthy aging vs structural MRI. DTI and structural MRI were preformed on 17 patients with AD, 17 with MCI, and 18 cognitively normal (CN) subjects. FA of the cingulum fibers was significantly reduced in MCI, and even more in AD. FA was also significantly reduced in the splenium of the CC in AD, but not in MCI. Adding DTI to hippocampal volume significantly improved the accuracy to separate MCI and AD from CN. Assessment of the cingulum fibers using diffusion tensor imaging may aid early diagnosis of Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "17196872", "title": "Clinical-pathologic study of biomarkers in FTDP-17 (PPND family with N279K tau mutation).", "content": "Clinical-pathologic study of biomarkers in FTDP-17 (PPND family with N279K tau mutation). The objective of this clinical-pathologic study was to identify biomarkers for a pallidopontonigral degeneration (PPND) kindred of frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) harboring the N279K tau mutation. Five affected subjects, one at-risk who later became symptomatic, and one at-risk asymptomatic mutation carrier, had abnormal (18)fluorodeoxyglucose PET demonstrating asymmetric temporal lobe hypometabolism. All except the asymptomatic mutation carrier had abnormal brain MRI. Parkinsonism, myoclonus, anosmia, insomnia, speech, and autonomic dysfunction were identified. Autopsy of six affected subjects showed frontotemporal degeneration with extensive tauopathy. Further studies of FTDP-17 patients are needed to replicate these findings."}
{"id": "17184752", "title": "Non-fluent progressive aphasia: cerebral metabolic patterns and brain reserve.", "content": "Non-fluent progressive aphasia: cerebral metabolic patterns and brain reserve. Functional imaging studies suggest that brain reserve allows patients with Alzheimer's disease with more years of schooling to cope better with brain damage. No studies exist on patients with non-fluent progressive aphasia (NFPA). We aimed to explore metabolic patterns of patients with NFPA and to provide evidence for brain reserve in NFPA. 11 right-handed patients with NFPA and 16 age-matched controls underwent (18)F-FDG PET imaging. Scans of patients and controls were compared in SPM2. A linear regression analysis with glucose metabolism as dependent variable and years of schooling as the independent variable, adjusted for age, gender, and a total score of the CERAD neuropsychological battery was conducted. The NFPA group showed a hypometabolism of the left hemisphere including the middle frontal, and inferior temporal and angular gyri, and the bilateral caudate nuclei and thalami (p(corr)<0.05). The regression analysis revealed a significant inverse association between education and glucose metabolism in the left inferior temporal, parahippocampal, and supramarginal gyri (p(corr)<0.05). We conclude that brain reserve is also present in NFPA."}
{"id": "17065593", "title": "Amyloid, hypometabolism, and cognition in Alzheimer disease: an [11C]PIB and [18F]FDG PET study.", "content": "Amyloid, hypometabolism, and cognition in Alzheimer disease: an [11C]PIB and [18F]FDG PET study. To investigate the association between brain amyloid load in Alzheimer disease (AD) measured by [11C]PIB-PET, regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlc) measured by [18F]FDG-PET, and cognition. Nineteen subjects with AD and 14 controls had [11C]PIB-PET and underwent a battery of psychometric tests. Twelve of those subjects with AD and eight controls had [18F]FDG-PET. Parametric images of [11C]PIB binding and rCMRGlc were interrogated with a region-of-interest atlas and statistical parametric mapping. [11C]PIB binding and rCMRGlc were correlated with scores on psychometric tests. AD subjects showed twofold increases in mean [11C]PIB binding in cingulate, frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortical areas. Higher cortical amyloid load correlated with lower scores on facial and word recognition tests. Two patients fulfilling the clinical criteria for AD had normal [11C]PIB at baseline. Over 20 months this remained normal in one but increased in the cingulate of the other. Mean levels of temporal and parietal rCMRGlc were reduced by 20% in AD and these correlated with mini mental scores, immediate recall, and recognition memory test for words. Higher [11C]PIB uptake correlated with lower rCMRGlc in temporal and parietal cortices. [11C]PIB-PET detected an increased amyloid plaque load in 89% of patients with clinically probable Alzheimer disease (AD). The high frontal amyloid load detected by [11C]PIB-PET in AD in the face of spared glucose metabolism is of interest and suggests that amyloid plaque formation may not be directly responsible for neuronal dysfunction in this disorder."}
{"id": "16979268", "title": "Anatomical and functional alterations in semantic dementia: a voxel-based MRI and PET study.", "content": "Anatomical and functional alterations in semantic dementia: a voxel-based MRI and PET study. Rare studies have used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to assess atrophy, and only two positron emission tomography (PET) studies used SPM to examine functional changes in semantic dementia (SD). Our aim was to highlight both morphological and functional abnormalities in a same group of 10 SD patients, in the entire brain, using a \"state of the art\" methodology (optimized VBM procedure, PET data corrected for partial volume effects and voxel-based analyses). We also used an extensive neuropsychological battery. We showed that main alterations concerned the left temporal lobe, in accordance with the striking impairment of semantic memory in SD patients, as well as the hippocampal region, which may partly explain their moderate episodic memory deficits. Hypometabolism was more extensive than grey matter loss in both temporal lobes, and specifically concerned the orbitofrontal areas, consistent with the moderate impairment of executive functions and behavioural changes. While PET is more sensitive than MRI, there is striking concordance between morphological and functional abnormalities, which contrasts with the discordance observed in Alzheimer's disease and might be a typical feature of SD."}
{"id": "16914245", "title": "Insight in frontotemporal dementia: conceptual analysis and empirical evaluation of the consensus criterion \"loss of insight\" in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Insight in frontotemporal dementia: conceptual analysis and empirical evaluation of the consensus criterion \"loss of insight\" in frontotemporal dementia. The objective of this study was to suggest a new formulation of the core research diagnostic consensus criterion \"loss of insight\" in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Eight patients with FTD (diagnoses made by interviews, medical and neuropsychological examination, CT scan, and regional cerebral glucose metabolism measured by positron emission tomography (PET) participated in the study). The results indicated that insight was present in three out of eight patients, and that insight appears to be a heterogeneous concept. Two types of insight emerged: Emotional insight associated with frontotemporal functions, and cognitive insight, related to posterior cognitive functions. These results suggest that loss of insight should not serve as a core criterion on FTD, but serves well as a supportive criterion of the disease."}
{"id": "16448722", "title": "Decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in frontotemporal dementia: a longitudinal 18F-FDG-PET-study.", "content": "Decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in frontotemporal dementia: a longitudinal 18F-FDG-PET-study. To identify the pattern of progression of decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in frontotemporal dementia (FTD, frontal variant). 22 patients with mild FTD underwent 18F-FDG-positron emission tomography at baseline and at follow-up in average 19.5 months later. Patient scans were compared with scans from 15 healthy age-matched control subjects on a voxel-by-voxel basis using SPM-99. As compared with healthy control subjects at baseline patients with FTD showed a significant symmetrical hypometabolism of the frontal lobes sparing the motor cortex, of the caudate nuclei, insula and thalamus bilaterally. At follow-up further significant reductions in glucose metabolism were observed in the parietal and temporal cortices. In early stages of FTD the neurodegenerative process is limited to the frontal lobes. During the progression of the disease, the pathological changes pass over the lobar borders and spread into the parietal and temporal cortices."}
{"id": "17432181", "title": "[Neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment]. I summarized the present status of Neuroimaging studies in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Nation wide multi-center study with regard to single photon emission study had been started 3 year before and it is now going on in a good cooperation of many institute, covering 319 cases. This study was name as J-COSMIC (Japan Cooperative SPECT Study on Assessment of Mild Impairment of Cognitive Function). After one-year follow-up, 30 out of 120 cases were converted to Alzheimer's disease from MCI. Since last year, ADNI (Alzheimer' disease Neuroimaging Initiative) had started in US, very similar to J-COSMIC, but they adopted PET and MRI as the examination tool. The findings based on J-COSMIC is still unclear, but, we can say that the general cognitive evaluation methods such as MMSE is better than WMS-R, which measures the memory function itself with wide variation in each case. Similar to small size previous works, converter from MCI to Alzheimer's disease tended to show hypoperfusion in the parietal and frontal regions. Recent advance in the molecular imaging enabled us to visualize the deposition of amyloid protein in the brain parenchyma. It is still controversial as to application of the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or MCI. S. Minoshima reported the hypometabolism in the early stage of Alzheimer's disease in the posterior cingulate gyrus or precuneus, but it has been still unknown why these areas showed hypoperfusion or hypometabolism in early phase of Alzheimer's disease. We examined the fiber connection of posterior cingulate region with other brain structures using diffusion weighted images. It was very surprising that such kind of small structures had a lot of connections, not only contralateral side, but also, parietal and temporal lobes, as well as anterior cigulate cortex. The function has been still been unclear, but we will be able to disclose their functions in the human brain in the future, which will be helpful for understanding the pathophysiological changes in MCI."}
{"id": "17168714", "title": "The effect of drugs for Alzheimer disease assessed by means of neuroradiological techniques.", "content": "The effect of drugs for Alzheimer disease assessed by means of neuroradiological techniques. Cholinesterase inhibitors constitute the standard of care for Alzheimer's disease in western countries. Donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine had showed similar efficacy according to meta-analysis from randomised clinical trials. A mean modest 2 point-improvement has been observed in the Alzheimer's disease Assessment Scale (ADAS). Memantine has emerged as an alternative for advanced stages of the disease. Apart from clinical scales, neuroradiologic techniques have proven useful to assess the effect of these drugs on the brain of AD patients. An extensive search for papers dealing with neuroradiological techniques in the assessment of AD drugs has been conducted, especially based on MEDLINE and EMBASE systems. Several techniques have demonstrated to be useful to assess the effects of drugs and disease progression. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-based volumetry of the hippocampus showed more consistency to monitor progression than clinical variables, and thus, the sample size for clinical trials may be reduced. Donepezil is able to slow progression of atrophy in two controlled studies suggesting a neuroprotective effect. Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) measures metabolite concentration of living tissues. In AD the most characteristic findings are decreased N-acetyl aspartate (neuronal marker) and choline-compounds elevation (marker of cell membrane turnover and degradation). A placebo controlled trial showed that treatment with donepezil increased transiently the NAA/Cr ratio in both hippocampi in AD. Changes in aspartate levels correlated to clinical response to rivastigmine in a non-randomised trial. Some studies evaluated cholinesterase inhibition in vivo with PET (Positron Emission Tomography) with higher reductions for rivastigmine than for donepezil in several cortical areas. Metabolism of glucose was also studied in patients taking galantamine or rivastigmine. Rivastigmine may stabilise glucose metabolism in a small series of AD patients. Correlation between glucose metabolism and changes in clinical scales has been observed in patients treated with galantamine. Most studies point to the frontal cortex as the best area to detect changes after treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors. Neuroradiologic techniques are of help to evaluate the effect of drugs in AD, and to monitor disease progression."}
{"id": "17135378", "title": "Anxiety and regional cortical glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Anxiety and regional cortical glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In this study, the authors investigated the relationship between anxiety and regional cortical metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), the authors evaluated anxiety in 41 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Regional cortical glucose metabolism was measured using [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in the resting state. Relationships were assessed using voxel-based (SPM2) and anatomic region-based analyses. Higher NPI anxiety score (frequency x severity) was associated with lower metabolism in bilateral entorhinal cortex, anterior parahippocampal gyrus, and left superior temporal gyrus and insula. Functional activity changes in distinct regions of the cortex contribute to the expression of anxiety in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "17134649", "title": "The woman who needed a pet.", "content": "The woman who needed a pet. A 72-year-old woman developed difficulty reading, driving, and playing dominoes. Ophthalmologic examination revealed a homonymous hemianopia, but brain MRI showed no abnormality to explain the visual field defect. Neuropsychiatric testing demonstrated severely impaired visual processing (simultagnosia, visual agnosia, visuospatial difficulty). Positron emission tomography revealed hypometabolism of both parietal and occipital lobes consistent with posterior cortical atrophy or the visual variant of Alzheimer disease. Functional neuroimaging should be considered in the setting of a normal MRI among patients with signs and symptoms of the visual variant Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "17134017", "title": "Effect of linearization correction on statistical parametric mapping (SPM): a 99mTc-HMPAO brain perfusion SPECT study in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effect of linearization correction on statistical parametric mapping (SPM): a 99mTc-HMPAO brain perfusion SPECT study in mild Alzheimer's disease. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was employed to investigate the regional decline in cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as measured by 99mTc-hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the role of the post reconstruction image processing on the interpretation of SPM, which detects rCBF pattern, has not been precisely studied. We performed 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in mild AD patients and analyzed the effect of linearization correction for washout of the tracer on the detectability of abnormal perfusion. Eleven mild AD (NINCDS-ADRDA, male/female, 5/6; mean+/-SD age, 70.6+/-6.2 years; mean+/-SD mini-mental state examination score, 23.9+/-3.41; clinical dementia rating score, 1) and eleven normal control subjects (male/female, 4/7; mean+/-SD age, 66.8+/-8.4 years) were enrolled in this study. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT was performed with a four-head rotating gamma camera. We employed linearization uncorrected (LU) and linearization corrected (LC) images for the patients and controls. The pattern of hypoperfusion in mild AD on LU and LC images was detected by SPM99 applying the same image standardization and analytical parameters. A statistical inter image-group analysis (LU vs. LC) was also performed. Clear differences were observed between the interpretation of SPM with LU and LC images. Significant hypoperfusion in mild AD was found on the LU images in the left posterior cingulate gyrus, right precuneus, left hippocampus, left uncus, and left superior temporal gyrus (cluster level, corrected p < 0.005). With the LC images, significant hypoperfusion in AD was found only in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus and left precuneus (cluster level, corrected p < 0.005). A pattern of greater rCBF distribution at the high flow cortices and low flow cortices was observed on LC and LU images, respectively, in the case of both controls and mild AD patients. Hippocampal hypoperfusion could be detected by means of SPM in the LU images but not in the LC images. The results of SPM may vary in 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT with or without linearization correction, which should be carefully evaluated when interpreting the pattern of rCBF changes in mild Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "17129828", "title": "Imaging Alzheimer's disease pathology: one target, many ligands.", "content": "Imaging Alzheimer's disease pathology: one target, many ligands. Over the past five years there has been a surge of interest in using positron emission tomography (PET) to determine the in vivo density of the senile plaque, a key pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease. The development of the tracers [(11)C]-PIB, [(11)C]-SB13 and [(18)F]-FDDNP has coincided with drug strategies aimed at altering the brain metabolism of amyloid-beta peptides. The evolution of these novel ligands serves not only as an excellent example of how rapidly imaging technologies can progress but also as a reminder that the fundamental biological knowledge, which is necessary to fully interpret the PET data, can be left trailing behind."}
{"id": "17129196", "title": "Patterns of regional brain hypometabolism associated with knowledge of semantic features and categories in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Patterns of regional brain hypometabolism associated with knowledge of semantic features and categories in Alzheimer's disease. The study of semantic memory in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) has raised important questions about the representation of conceptual knowledge in the human brain. It is still unknown whether semantic memory impairments are caused by localized damage to specialized regions or by diffuse damage to distributed representations within nonspecialized brain areas. To our knowledge, there have been no direct correlations of neuroimaging of in vivo brain function in AD with performance on tasks differentially addressing visual and functional knowledge of living and nonliving concepts. We used a semantic verification task and resting 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in a group of mild to moderate AD patients to investigate this issue. The four task conditions required semantic knowledge of (1) visual, (2) functional properties of living objects, and (3) visual or (4) functional properties of nonliving objects. Visual property verification of living objects was significantly correlated with left posterior fusiform gyrus metabolism (Brodmann's area [BA] 37/19). Effects of visual and functional property verification for non-living objects largely overlapped in the left anterior temporal (BA 38/20) and bilateral premotor areas (BA 6), with the visual condition extending more into left lateral precentral areas. There were no associations with functional property verification for living concepts. Our results provide strong support for anatomically separable representations of living and nonliving concepts, as well as visual feature knowledge of living objects, and against distributed accounts of semantic memory that view visual and functional features of living and nonliving objects as distributed across a common set of brain areas."}
{"id": "17109700", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism and temperament in relation to severe somatization.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism and temperament in relation to severe somatization. Little is known about the pathophysiology of somatization. The authors' aim was to explore associated factors with somatoform disorders. The authors studied 10 female patients with a diagnosis of somatization disorder or undifferentiated somatoform disorder with no comorbid current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th edn) Axis I disorder and 12 healthy female volunteers. The predicting variables were temperament factors of the 240-item Temperament and Character Inventory instrument and regional brain glucose metabolism. Low novelty-seeking and high harm avoidance temperament traits and low caudate and low putamen glucose metabolism were statistically significantly associated with severe somatization (P < 0.05). In the present study, severe somatization associates with both altered brain glucose metabolism and temperament factors. No other studies on association of somatization with brain glucose metabolism and temperament have been published. The results are still considered exploratory due to the small number of subjects."}
{"id": "17101904", "title": "Prefrontal hypofunction in patients with intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Prefrontal hypofunction in patients with intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. We compared the cognitive functions and interictal cerebral glucose metabolism of 11 patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) with frequent seizures to those of 10 patients with MTLE with rare seizures; the groups were matched for age, sex, education, IQ, and focus side. The frequent-seizure group had more set-shifting impairment that correlated with glucose hypometabolism in the prefrontal cortices. Our results suggest that frequent seizures in MTLE are associated with hypofunction of the prefrontal cortex."}
{"id": "17079810", "title": "Hypometabolism exceeds atrophy in presymptomatic early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hypometabolism exceeds atrophy in presymptomatic early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. The aim of the present study is to compare brain atrophy with hypometabolism as preclinical markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by studying presymptomatic individuals from families with known early-onset autosomal dominant AD (FAD) carrying mutations in the Presenilin 1 gene. Seven asymptomatic at-risk FAD individuals (age, 35-49 y; 4 women; education >/= 12 y) and 7 matched healthy control subjects received complete clinical, neuropsychologic, MRI, and (18)F-FDG PET examinations. Regions of interest (ROIs: whole brain [WB], hippocampus [Hip], entorhinal cortex [EC], posterior cingulate cortex [PCC], inferior parietal lobule [IPL], and superior temporal gyrus (STG]) were drawn on the MRI scans of all subjects and used to measure volumes on MRI and glucose metabolism (MRglc) from the MRI-coregistered, atrophy-corrected PET scans. Compared with controls and after correcting for head size, MRI volume reductions in FAD subjects were restricted to the IPL (18%, P < 0.02). After atrophy correction and adjusting for pons MRglc, PET MRglc reductions were found in all FAD subjects compared with controls in the WB (13%), bilaterally in the IPL (17%) and in the STG (12%), and in the left EC (21%), PCC (20%), and Hip (12%) (P values < 0.05). PET MRglc measurements were consistently less variable than MRI measures, yielding significantly larger effect sizes in separating FAD from controls. Presymptomatic FAD individuals show widespread MRglc reductions consistent with the typical AD PET pattern in the relative absence of structural brain atrophy. These data further suggest that PET MRglc measures may serve as biomarkers for the preclinical diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "17067234", "title": "[Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis and epidermoid carcinoma of the pyriform].", "content": "[Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis and epidermoid carcinoma of the pyriform]. Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis is a syndrome characterised by behaviour changes, short-term memory loss and seizures. We report on a case of a 62-year-old man, ex-smoker who was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with seizures, and who had previously experienced behaviour changes. Tests revealed nothing notable, except for the CSF examination which revealed elevated protein and MRI findings indicating temporal lobe abnormalities. Once other diagnoses had been ruled out, neoplasm screening was initiated. Conventional imaging failed to identify the tumour. Antineuronal anti-Hu antibodies were negative. Finally, fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) whole body -PET imaging was carried out revealing a pathologically increased glucose metabolism at the pharynx-larynx level. The biopsy showed an epidermoid carcinoma of the pyriform sinus. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an epidermoid carcinoma of the pyriform sinus associated with paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis."}
{"id": "17065334", "title": "Attenuation of insulin-evoked responses in brain networks controlling appetite and reward in insulin resistance: the cerebral basis for impaired control of food intake in metabolic syndrome?", "content": "Attenuation of insulin-evoked responses in brain networks controlling appetite and reward in insulin resistance: the cerebral basis for impaired control of food intake in metabolic syndrome? The rising prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes is a global challenge. A possible mechanism linking insulin resistance and weight gain would be attenuation of insulin-evoked responses in brain areas relevant to eating in systemic insulin resistance. We measured brain glucose metabolism, using [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, in seven insulin-sensitive (homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance [HOMA-IR] = 1.3) and seven insulin-resistant (HOMA-IR = 6.3) men, during suppression of endogenous insulin by somatostatin, with and without an insulin infusion that elevated insulin to 24.6 +/- 5.2 and 23.2 +/- 5.8 mU/l (P = 0.76), concentrations similar to fasting levels of the resistant subjects and approximately threefold above those of the insulin-sensitive subjects. Insulin-evoked change in global cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was reduced in insulin resistance (+7 vs. +17.4%, P = 0.033). Insulin was associated with increased metabolism in ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex and with decreased metabolism in right amygdala/hippocampus and cerebellar vermis (P < 0.001), relative to global brain. Insulin's effect was less in ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex in the insulin-resistant subjects (mean +/- SD for right ventral striatum 3.2 +/- 3.9 vs. 7.7 +/- 1.7, P = 0.017). We conclude that brain insulin resistance exists in peripheral insulin resistance, especially in regions subserving appetite and reward. Diminishing the link be-tween control of food intake and energy balance may contribute to development of obesity in insulin resistance."}
{"id": "17030755", "title": "Hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease by arterial spin labeling MRI.", "content": "Hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease by arterial spin labeling MRI. To test if arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI could detect a pattern of hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) vs cognitively normal (CN) control subjects; to determine the regional difference of perfusion between FTD and Alzheimer disease (AD); and to determine whether hypoperfusion in FTD correlates with cognitive impairment. We included 21 patients with FTD, 24 patients with AD, and 25 CN subjects in this cross-sectional MRI study. All subjects had MRI scans including T1-weighted structural images and ASL-MR images. ASL-MRI detected a pattern of hypoperfusion in right frontal regions in patients with FTD vs CN subjects, similar to PET and SPECT. FTD had higher perfusion than AD in the parietal regions and posterior cingulate. Frontal hypoperfusion in FTD correlated with deficits in judgment and problem solving. Adding frontal perfusion to gray matter (GM) atrophy significantly improved the classification of FTD from normal aging to 74%, and adding parietal perfusion to GM atrophy significantly improved the classification of FTD from AD to 75%. Combining frontal and parietal lobe perfusion further improved the classification of FTD from AD to 87%. Frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease display different spatial distributions of hypoperfusion on arterial spin labeling MRI. With further development and evaluation, arterial spin labeling MRI could contribute to the differential diagnosis between frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "17028562", "title": "[Brain profile of hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: relationships with cognitive deficits and atrophy].", "content": "[Brain profile of hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: relationships with cognitive deficits and atrophy]. While accurate and early prediction of patients that will develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the near future is urgently needed, the amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) state is of particular interest since it most conveniently represents the pre-dementia stage of AD. Consistently, the profile of brain functional alteration constantly evidenced in resting-state SPECT and PET studies is similar to that observed in mild AD, mainly involving the posterior cingulate and temporo-parietal regions. While the former is a characteristic feature of MCI, since it is present in each patient at this stage, the latter seems specifically associated with the future conversion to AD. Moreover, right temporo-parietal hypometabolism has been found to be the best predictor of subsequent global cognitive decline, over and above neuropsychological and MRI volumetric measurements. This review also presents a discussion on the relationships between the brain profile of hypometabolism on the one hand, and cognitive impairment as well as cerebral structural alterations on the other. Thus, firstly, while functional impairment in the posterior cingulate region seems to be associated with deficits in retrieval of episodic memories in MCI, the relationship between right temporo-parietal hypometabolism and cognitive impairment is still obscure. However, several arguments point to its relation with visuo-spatial deficits, which are often associated with future conversion to AD. Secondly, the discordance between brain areas of major functional changes, and those of highest structural alterations, leads to some relevant questions about the relations between both pathological manifestations and their underlying mechanisms. More specifically, additional hypometabolism-inducing factors could occur in areas of highest hypometabolism compared to atrophy, i.e. mainly in posterior associative cortical regions, leading to genuine functional perturbation in early AD before the development of real atrophy and perhaps of disease as well. By contrast, the hippocampus is the main site of atrophy while its functional alteration is still debated, suggesting that compensation/protective mechanisms probably specifically occur in this structure to maintain a high level of metabolism relative to its structural alteration."}
{"id": "17000469", "title": "Overexpression of GRK2 in Alzheimer disease and in a chronic hypoperfusion rat model is an early marker of brain mitochondrial lesions.", "content": "Overexpression of GRK2 in Alzheimer disease and in a chronic hypoperfusion rat model is an early marker of brain mitochondrial lesions. Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding (G) protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) are cytosolic proteins that are known to contribute to the adaptation of the heptahelical G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and to regulate downstream signals through these receptors. GPCRs mediate the action of messengers that are key modulators of cardiac and vascular cell function, such as growth and differentiation. GRKs are members of a multigene family, which are classified into three subfamilies and are found in cardiac, vascular and cerebral tissues. Increasing evidence strongly supports the hypothesis that vascular damage is an early contributor to the development of Alzheimer disease (AD) and/or other pathology that can mimic human AD. Based on this hypothesis, and since kinases of this family are known to regulate numerous receptor functions both in the brain, myocardium and elsewhere, we explored cellular and subcellular localization by immunoreactivity of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2), also known as beta-adrenergic receptor kinase-1(betaARK1), in the early pathogenesis of AD and in ischemia reperfusion injury models of brain hypoperfusion. In the present study, we used the two-vessel carotid artery occlusion model, namely the 2-VO system that results in chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) and mimics mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and vascular changes in AD pathology. Our findings demonstrate the early overexpression of GRK2 member kinase in the cerebrovasculature, especially endothelial cells (EC) following CBH, as well as in select cells from human AD tissue. We found a significant increase in GRK2 immunoreactivity in the EC of AD patients and after CBH, which preceded any amyloid deposition. Since GRK2 activity is associated with certain compensatory changes in brain cellular compartments and in ischemic cardiac tissue, our findings suggest that chronic hypoperfusion initiates oxidative stress in these conditions and appears to be the main initiating injury stimulus for disruption of brain and cerebrovascular homeostasis and metabolism."}
{"id": "16999337", "title": "[Case with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who shows reduplicative paramnesia and Capgras syndrome].", "content": "[Case with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who shows reduplicative paramnesia and Capgras syndrome]. We report a case of probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), showing reduplicative paramnesia (RP) and Capgras syndrome (CS). The patient, a right-handed 60 year-old male, began to show progressive dementia. At the age of 65, he showed fluctuating cognitive impairment and recurrent visual hallucinations. His SPECT demonstrated hypoperfusion not in the medial temporal cortices, but in the parieto-occipital lobes, where the right hemisphere was dominantly hypoperfused. He was diagnosed with probable DLB. In addition to recurrent visual hallucinations, he showed a sense of self- (or others) transfiguration, consciousness of something non-existent (Leibhaftige Bewusstheit; Jaspers, K.), and fluctuating visuo-spacial impairment. At the age of 67, he gradually complained of his duplicative wives \"sosie\". Finally he went so far as to talk about a nameless phantom boarder. We considered that RP and CS of this case comprised a sense of self-(or others) transfiguration, misidentification of important persons and places, and productive symptoms such as consciousness of something non-existent (Leibhaftige Bewusstheit) and visual hallucinations. The above mentioned symptoms might be originated not only from the disturbance of visuospacial recognition, which involves the limbic system (especially amygdala), medial frontal cortex, and right hemisphere of the brain, but also from the disturbance of recursive consciousness, due to diffusely damaged brain regions with Lewy body pathology. (Authors' abstract)"}
{"id": "16983677", "title": "Characteristics of frontotemporal dementia patients with a Progranulin mutation.", "content": "Characteristics of frontotemporal dementia patients with a Progranulin mutation. Mutations in the Progranulin gene (PGRN) recently have been discovered to be associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) linked to 17q21 without identified MAPT mutations. The range of mutations of PGRN that can result in the FTD phenotype and the clinical presentation of patients with PGRN mutations have yet to be determined. In this study, we examined 84 FTD patients from families not known previously to have illness linked to chromosome 17 for identified PGRN and MAPT mutations and sequenced the coding exons and the flanking intronic regions of PGRN. We compared the prevalence, clinical characteristics, magnetic resonance imaging and 18-fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography results, and neuropsychological testing of patients with the PGRN R493X mutation with those patients without identified PGRN mutations. We discovered a new PGRN mutation (R493X) resulting in a stop codon in two patients. This was the only PGRN mutation identified in our sample. The patients with the PGRN R493X mutation had a rapid illness course and had predominant right-sided atrophy and hypometabolism on magnetic resonance imaging and 18-fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography. The affected father of one of the patients with the PGRN R493X mutation showed frontal and temporal atrophy without neurofibrillary tangles on neuropathological examination. Known PGRN and MAPT mutations were rare and of similar prevalence in our sample (2 compared with 1/84). The patients with the PGRN R493X mutation had a clinical presentation comparable with other behavior-predominant FTD patients. The neuropathology of an affected family member of a patient with the PGRN R493X mutation appears not to be Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "16954690", "title": "Longitudinal changes of cerebral glucose metabolism in semantic dementia.", "content": "Longitudinal changes of cerebral glucose metabolism in semantic dementia. Semantic dementia (SD). To identify the pattern of decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in SD using cerebral (18)F-fluoro-2-desoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography scanning ((18)F-FDG-PET). Eight patients with SD underwent (18)F-FDG-PET at baseline and at re-examination in average 15 months later. Compared with healthy control subjects, patients with SD showed a significant asymmetrical (left > right) hypometabolism of the temporal lobes, particularly of the anterior poles, at baseline. At follow-up, we observed a deterioration of cognitive abilities. However, in addition to the temporal lobes no other cortical or subcortical region showed a significant reduction of glucose metabolism except the anterior cingulate cortex (pcorr < 0.05). Subtle functional changes suffice to produce significant neuropsycho- logical deterioration."}
{"id": "16945208", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow reductions, heart failure and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow reductions, heart failure and Alzheimer's disease. To discuss whether there are similarities between the functional brain abnormalities detectable in association with the diagnoses of heart failure (HF) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), focusing particularly on neuroimaging findings in vivo. Using an electronic database (Medline), we reviewed imaging studies that have evaluated resting cerebral blood flow (CBF), resting glucose metabolism or amyloid deposition in groups of subjects suffering AD or HF compared with healthy controls. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) investigations have reported global CBF reductions in HF groups compared with controls. In one recent SPECT study using modern voxel-based methods for image analysis, regional CBF deficits in the pre-cuneus and posterior cingulate gyrus were detected in a sample of HF sufferers relative to controls. The regional distribution of functional deficits in the latter study was similar to that found in many positron emission tomography (PET) investigations of glucose metabolism at early AD stages, as well as in recent PET investigations of amyloid deposition in AD. Imaging studies have rarely investigated whether there are localized functional brain deficits in association with HF. Recent regional CBF SPECT data provide preliminary anatomic support to a view that AD-like brain changes may develop in HF patients, possibly as a consequence of chronic CBF reductions. Additional studies of larger HF samples are needed to confirm this possibility, preferably using PET measures that have afforded greater sensitivity and specificity to identify brain functional abnormalities associated with the diagnosis of AD, such as indices of glucose metabolism and amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "16943169", "title": "Vascular cognitive impairment.", "content": "Vascular cognitive impairment. Cerebrovascular disease is increasingly recognized as a common cause of cognitive impairment and dementia in later life either alone or in conjunction with other pathologies, most often Alzheimer disease (AD). Progress in the field has been limited by difficulties in terminology; for example, use of the term dementia necessitates the presence of memory impairment, which is the norm in AD, but not in cognitive disorders associated with cerebrovascular disease. The term vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) has been proposed as an umbrella term to recognize the broad spectrum of cognitive, and indeed behavioral, changes associated with vascular pathology. It is characterized by a specific cognitive profile with predominantly attentional and executive impairments together with particular noncognitive features (especially depression) and a relatively stable course, at least in clinical trial populations. Subtypes of VCI have been proposed based on clinical and pathologic differences, including cortical, subcortical, strategic infarct, hypoperfusion, hemorrhagic, and mixed (with AD) type. Diagnostic criteria are emerging but require refinement and validation, especially for mixed dementias. There remain fundamental gaps in our understanding of pathophysiology, predicting prognosis and outcome, and in therapeutics. Clinical trials to date, mainly in populations selected using currently accepted criteria for vascular dementia, have generally been disappointing. A relatively modest cognitive benefit of agents such as nimodipine, memantine, and cholinesterase inhibitors has been reported, although the clinical significance of these improvements remains to be established. Further studies, focusing on particular subtypes of VCI and involving subjects at earlier stages of the disease, are required. The aim of this article is to review the concept of VCI in terms of the evidence base surrounding diagnosis, clinical features, pathophysiology, and management and to make some recommendations regarding further research in the area. It begins with a discussion on the historical background, which is important to understand the different and somewhat confusing terminology that currently exists in the field."}
{"id": "16942758", "title": "Age- and transgene-related changes in regional cerebral metabolism in PSAPP mice.", "content": "Age- and transgene-related changes in regional cerebral metabolism in PSAPP mice. In parallel to imaging studies in humans with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we have mapped brain metabolic activity in transgenic mouse models of AD. Our aim in both is to provide new surrogate markers of progression to help clarify disease mechanisms and rapidly screen candidate therapeutics. Since previous findings of preferential reductions in posterior cingulate glucose metabolism may have been confounded by morphological abnormalities in previously studied \"PDAPP\" transgenic mice, we first assessed hippocampal and callosal anatomy in PSAPP (PS1xAPP) mice, another transgenic mouse model of AD, and found no major abnormalities. We then used fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography in older and younger PSAPP and wildtype mice to assess the functional state of 56 regions-of-interest across group, age and increasing amyloid load. Reductions in FDG uptake in aged transgenic mice, with significant interactions between group and age, were found in retrosplenial cingulate gyrus, found to be metabolically affected in persons affected by or at risk for AD, and in brain regions known to participate with retrosplenial cingulate in networks contributing to spatial learning deficits found in these animals. Like patients with AD, PSAPP mice have age-related metabolic reductions in posterior cingulate cortex, a finding that does not appear to be related to morphological abnormalities. If longitudinal studies support these progressive and preferential reductions in retrosplenial metabolism in PSAPP mice, these reductions could provide an indicator of disease progression, help bridge the gap between human and animal studies of AD, and aid in clarification of disease mechanisms and screening of promising treatments."}
{"id": "16926555", "title": "Self-reported fatigue common among optimally treated HIV patients: no correlation with cerebral FDG-PET scanning abnormalities.", "content": "Self-reported fatigue common among optimally treated HIV patients: no correlation with cerebral FDG-PET scanning abnormalities. It was the aim of this study to determine the prevalence and severity of fatigue among optimally treated HIV patients and to investigate the potential association with systemic inflammation and abnormalities of the distribution of cerebral glucose metabolism. A cohort of HIV patients (n = 95), known to be HIV positive for 5 years, on anti-retroviral therapy for a minimum of 3 years and with CD4 counts above 0.2 x 10(9) cells/l, completed a validated fatigue inventory, and plasma was analysed for pro-inflammatory markers including tumour necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin 6 and soluble urokinase receptor (suPAR) levels. The distribution of the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose was measured in a sub-group of patients suffering from severe fatigue (n = 9) and a group with no fatigue (n = 7) using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scanning. Fifteen percent suffered from severe fatigue, but no association with pro-inflammatory markers was found. About 50% of the FDG-PET-scanned patients showed minor abnormalities in the relative cerebral metabolic rate of glucose. These abnormalities were not associated with fatigue but tended to correlate with a short HIV history (p = 0.058), a low CD4 nadir (p = 0.082) and elevated tumour necrosis factor-alpha levels (p = 0.074). Fatigue is common among optimally treated HIV patients. FDG-PET-described signs of imminent neurodegeneration among HIV patients who had a low CD4 nadir may illustrate an aspect of HIV neuropathogenicity."}
{"id": "16905334", "title": "Evaluation of voxel-based methods for the statistical analysis of PIB PET amyloid imaging studies in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Evaluation of voxel-based methods for the statistical analysis of PIB PET amyloid imaging studies in Alzheimer's disease. Deposition of amyloid plaques is believed to be a central event in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study was undertaken to evaluate statistical methods for the assessment of group differences in retention of an amyloid imaging agent, PIB, throughout the brain and to compare these results to FDG studies of glucose metabolism performed in the same subjects on the same day. PET studies were performed in 10 mild to moderate AD and 11 control subjects. Parametric images of PIB retention (over 90 min post-injection) were generated using the Logan graphical analysis with cerebellar (CER, reference region) data as input. FDG parametric images were created by summing the uptake over 40-60 min post-injection and normalizing that to the CER to give a standardized uptake value ratio. Data were compared using parametric (SPM) and non-parametric (SnPM) statistical methods with familywise error (FWE) and false discovery rate (FDR) corrections. PIB results were consistent with previous regional results as AD subjects showed highly significant retention in frontal, parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate cortices (FDR-corrected p<1.4e-10). FDG results showed regions of marginally significant decreases in uptake in AD subjects (frontal, parietal, temporal, posterior cingulate cortices: FDR-corrected p<0.1) consistent with previous studies. Relative to FDG, the PIB analyses were of greater statistical significance and larger spatial extent. Additionally, the PIB analyses retained significance after both FWE and FDR corrections. These results indicate that voxel-based methods will be useful for future larger longitudinal studies of amyloid deposition that could improve AD diagnosis and anti-amyloid therapy assessment."}
{"id": "16895260", "title": "A preliminary fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography study in healthy adults reporting dream-enactment behavior.", "content": "A preliminary fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography study in healthy adults reporting dream-enactment behavior. To test the hypothesis that healthy adults reporting dream-enactment behavior (DEB+) have reduced cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in regions preferentially affected in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Automated brain-mapping algorithms were used to compare regional fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) measurements from previously evaluated DEB cases and controls. Tertiary-care academic medical centers. Seventeen cognitively normal patients with DEB+ and 17 control subjects (DEB-) who were individually matched for age (59 +/- 11 years), education level (16 +/- 4 years), sex (67% women), body mass index (26 +/- 4.8 kg/m2), first-degree relative with dementia (85%), and proportion of apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 carriers (13 e4 carriers, 4 noncarriers). FDG-PET. DEB was associated with significantly lower CMRgl in several brain regions known to be preferentially affected in both DLB and Alzheimer disease (parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate cortexes) and in several other regions, including the anterior cingulate cortex (p < .001, uncorrected for multiple comparisons). The DEB-associated CMRgl reductions were significantly greater in the APOE e4 noncarriers than in the carriers. These preliminary findings suggest that cognitively normal persons with DEB have reduced CMRgl in brain regions known to be metabolically affected by DLB, supporting further study of DEB as a possible risk factor for the development of DLB."}
{"id": "16854944", "title": "Two-year follow-up of amyloid deposition in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Two-year follow-up of amyloid deposition in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Beta amyloid is one of the major histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. We recently reported in vivo imaging of amyloid in 16 Alzheimer patients, using the PET ligand N-methyl[11C]2-(4'-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiazole (PIB). In the present study we rescanned these 16 Alzheimer patients after 2.0 +/- 0.5 years and have described the interval change in amyloid deposition and regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlc) at follow-up. Sixteen patients with Alzheimer's disease were re-examined by means of PET, using PIB and 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) after 2.0 +/- 0.5 years. The patients were all on cholinesterase inhibitor treatment and five also on treatment with the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist memantine. In order to estimate the accuracy of the PET PIB measurements, four additional Alzheimer patients underwent repeated examinations with PIB within 20 days (test-retest). Relative PIB retention in cortical regions differed by 3-7% in the test-retest study. No significant difference in PIB retention was observed between baseline and follow-up while a significant (P < 0.01) 20% decrease in rCMRGlc was observed in cortical brain regions. A significant negative correlation between rCMRGlc and PIB retention was observed in the parietal cortex in the Alzheimer patients at follow-up (r = 0.67, P = 0.009). A non-significant decline in Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score from 24.3 +/- 3.7 (mean +/- standard deviation) to 22.7 +/- 6.1 was measured at follow-up. Five of the Alzheimer patients showed a significant decline in MMSE score of >3 (21.4 +/- 3.5 to 15.6 +/- 3.9, P < 0.01) (AD-progressive) while the rest of the patients were cognitively more stable (MMSE score = 25.6 +/- 3.1 to 25.9 +/- 3.7) (AD-stable) compared with baseline. A positive correlation (P = 0.001) was observed in the parietal cortex between Rey Auditory Verbal Learning (RAVL) test score and rCMRGlc at follow-up while a negative correlation (P = 0.018) was observed between RAVL test and PIB retention in the parietal at follow-up. Relatively stable PIB retention after 2 years of follow-up in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease suggests that amyloid deposition in the brain reaches a plateau by the early clinical stages of Alzheimer's disease and therefore may precede a decline in rCMRGlc and cognition. It appears that anti-amyloid therapies will need to induce a significant decrease in amyloid load in order for PIB PET images to detect a drug effect in Alzheimer patients. FDG imaging may be able to detect a stabilization of cerebral metabolism caused by therapy administered to patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "16838258", "title": "[Reversible dementias and treatable dementias].", "content": "[Reversible dementias and treatable dementias]. When studying patients with dementia the search of reversible or treatable entities has a primordial role. Many patients do not recover the previous cognitive level; however, that does not signify that the disease is not treatable with partial recovery or prevention of secondary progression. The prevalence of reversible dementias is around 15% in most series. Rutine studies include complete blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, electrolytes and chemistry panel, liver function tests, vitamin B12 and folate serum levels, urianalysis and syphilis serology. Special tests such as thyroid function tests, protein electrophoresis, human immunodeficiency virus serology, heavy metals serum levels, electrocardiography, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, and chest roentnography should be performed according to the patient clinical profile. Neuroimaging should be done in all cases. Non-contrasted computed tomography must be performed first. Magnetic resonance imaging is most useful for searching for more subtle structure abnormalities. Electroencephalogram, positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography are not recommended as routine studies. Brain biopsy is indicated in few cases. Most common causes of reversible and treatable dementias include: medications, obstructive hydrocephalus, infectious, vascular, immunological, psychiatric, toxic and metabolic disorders, among others."}
{"id": "16816017", "title": "Frontal dysfunction underlies depressive syndrome in Alzheimer disease: a FDG-PET study.", "content": "Frontal dysfunction underlies depressive syndrome in Alzheimer disease: a FDG-PET study. This study aimed to investigate the regional cerebral dysfunction associated with depressive syndrome in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Twelve patients with AD with depressive syndrome (ADD) and 12 age-, gender-, and severity-matched patients with AD without depressive syndrome (ADND) underwent FDG-PET scanning. The regional cerebral glucose metabolism in the two groups was compared using a voxel-based method. The ADD group showed lower glucose metabolism in the right superior frontal gyrus than the ADND group. These results indicate that frontal dysfunction, known to be associated with primary or other secondary depressive syndromes, underlies the depressive syndrome of patients with AD patients as well."}
{"id": "16762862", "title": "[18FDG PET cerebral function imaging in 10 vascular dementia patients receiving needling at Baihui(DU20), Shuigou(DU26) and Shenmen(HT7)].", "content": "[18FDG PET cerebral function imaging in 10 vascular dementia patients receiving needling at Baihui(DU20), Shuigou(DU26) and Shenmen(HT7)]. To observe the effect of needling at Baihui(DU20), Shuigou(DU26) and Shenmen(HT7) on glucose metabolism in different regions of the brain in vascular dementia patients. Ten patients with vascular dementia were randomized into 2 groups, and the patients in the control group received the treatment with needling in the routine acupoints for hemiplegia (chosen from 6 Yang meridians of the hand and foot), while those in treatment group received needling at 3 additional acupoints, namely Baihui(DU20), Shuigou(DU26) and Shenmen(HT7), which were specific for dementia treatment. All the patients were examined by positron-emission tomography(PET) to detect the glucose metabolism in different brain regions before and after acupuncture treatment by means of semiquantitative analysis of the average values of radioactive count in the brain regions. Needling at the additional 3 acupoints could obviously enhance glucose metabolism in the bilateral frontal lobes, bilateral thalamus, temporal lobe and lentiform nucleus on the uncompromised side. The effect of needling at Baihui(DU20), Shuigou(DU26) and Shenmen(HT7) on vascular dementia is closely related to improved cerebral glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "16720178", "title": "Cognitive impairment associated with intraoperative and postoperative hypoperfusion without neurologic deficits in a patient undergoing carotid endarterectomy.", "content": "Cognitive impairment associated with intraoperative and postoperative hypoperfusion without neurologic deficits in a patient undergoing carotid endarterectomy. Neuropsychological testing detects cognitive impairment in 20% to 30% of patients after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). A 51-year-old man with asymptomatic right cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis underwent a CEA. Intraoperative transcranial regional cerebral oxygen saturation monitoring revealed ischemia in the right cerebral hemisphere during ICA clamping and transient hyperemia subsequent to ICA declamping. The patient recovered without the appearance of new neurologic deficits. Brain single-photon emission computed tomography performed immediately after CEA showed a decrease in cerebral blood flow in the right cerebral hemisphere. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging showed no new abnormal findings. Positron emission tomography performed 2 months after surgery revealed decreased cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in the right cerebral hemisphere, and neuropsychological testing demonstrated a decline in performance IQ relative to preoperative levels. Intraoperative ischemia and postischemic delayed hypoperfusion in CEA can impair cognition even in the absence of development of postoperative neurologic deficit."}
{"id": "16709580", "title": "Schooling mediates brain reserve in Alzheimer's disease: findings of fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography.", "content": "Schooling mediates brain reserve in Alzheimer's disease: findings of fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography. Functional imaging studies report that higher education is associated with more severe pathology in patients with Alzheimer's disease, controlling for disease severity. Therefore, schooling seems to provide brain reserve against neurodegeneration. To provide further evidence for brain reserve in a large sample, using a sensitive technique for the indirect assessment of brain abnormality (18F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)), a comprehensive measure of global cognitive impairment to control for disease severity (total score of the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease Neuropsychological Battery) and an approach unbiased by predefined regions of interest for the statistical analysis (statistical parametric mapping (SPM)). 93 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and 16 healthy controls underwent 18F-FDG-PET imaging of the brain. A linear regression analysis with education as independent and glucose utilisation as dependent variables, adjusted for global cognitive status and demographic variables, was conducted in SPM2. The regression analysis showed a marked inverse association between years of schooling and glucose metabolism in the posterior temporo-occipital association cortex and the precuneus in the left hemisphere. In line with previous reports, the findings suggest that education is associated with brain reserve and that people with higher education can cope with brain damage for a longer time."}
{"id": "16679762", "title": "Progression to dementia in clinical subtypes of mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Progression to dementia in clinical subtypes of mild cognitive impairment. To examine the outcome among patients diagnosed with different types of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). A follow-up examination (average follow-up period: 3.49 +/- 2.2 years) was performed in 81 cognitively impaired, non-demented patients aged >55 years at baseline. 8 of 32 patients with amnestic MCI (25%), 22 of 41 patients with multiple-domain MCI (54%), and 3 of 8 patients with single non-memory MCI (37.5%) progressed to dementia. The clinical type of MCI is significantly associated with the likelihood of conversion to dementia. When the clinical syndrome of MCI evolves on a neurodegenerative basis, the multiple-domain type of MCI has a less favorable prognosis than the amnestic type and may represent a more advanced prodromal stage of dementia."}
{"id": "16650436", "title": "The relationship between MRI and PET changes and cognitive disturbances in MS.", "content": "The relationship between MRI and PET changes and cognitive disturbances in MS. Cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS) is present in approximately 50% of the patients. Only moderate correlations have been found between cognitive dysfunction and T(2) lesion load, black holes or atrophy. Cognitive dysfunction in MS is probably related to the overall disease burden of the brain including abnormalities in normal appearing white matter (NAWM) and cortical grey matter, which is undetected with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Hence, imaging techniques that embrace such abnormalities are needed to achieve better correlation with cognitive dysfunction. MR spectroscopy (MRS) performed with multi-slice echo planar spectroscopic imaging (EPSI) and PET measurements of brain metabolism as the cortical cerebral metabolic rate of glucose are imaging methods that are able to provide information on axonal loss or dysfunction in both MS lesions and in NAWM and cortical grey matter. Measurements of global NAA using multi-slice EPSI is a new promising method for measurement of the global neuron capacity and can be repeated with only little discomfort and without any risk for the patient."}
{"id": "16626746", "title": "Cognitive dysfunction and emotional-behavioural changes in MS: the potential of positron emission tomography.", "content": "Cognitive dysfunction and emotional-behavioural changes in MS: the potential of positron emission tomography. Cognitive dysfunction and emotional-behavioral changes are symptoms with increasing clinical relevance during progression of the disease. They cannot be explained by demyelination of white matter alone but clearly indicate cortical dysfunction. Positron emission tomography (PET) provides methods to assess cortical dysfunction quantitatively by measuring cerebral glucose metabolism using the tracer (18)F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG). The technique has been employed to study fatigue and disease progression. Microglial activation was studied by 11C-PK-11195 PET. It was found not only in active plaques but also in degenerating fibre tracks. Other tracers offer a broad spectrum of measuring local physiological functions and pathophysiological processes, but some of them are still limited to experimental animal research."}
{"id": "16585474", "title": "Perceived loss of memory ability and cerebral metabolic decline in persons with the apolipoprotein E-IV genetic risk for Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Perceived loss of memory ability and cerebral metabolic decline in persons with the apolipoprotein E-IV genetic risk for Alzheimer disease. Concerns about age-related memory loss are greater in persons who have the apolipoprotein E-IV (APOE4) genetic risk for Alzheimer disease, but the correlation between the degree of concerns and future cerebral metabolic decline is unknown. To investigate whether the degree of self-perceived memory loss is associated with regional cerebral metabolic decline. Longitudinal study. Aging and Memory Research Center, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, University of California, Los Angeles. Thirty right-handed, cognitively intact, middle-aged and older adults (age range, 50-82 years) with age-associated memory complaints, 14 of whom were carriers of the apolipoprotein E-IV allele, were recruited for longitudinal study. At baseline, we administered a standardized neuropsychological battery and assessed self-appraisal of memory functioning using the Memory Functioning Questionnaire, which yields 4 factor scores indicating frequency of forgetting, seriousness of forgetting, retrospective functioning, and mnemonics use. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was determined using fluorodeoxyglucose F18-positron emission tomography at baseline and after 2 years. At baseline, APOE4 carriers and noncarriers did not differ significantly on objective memory measures or on Memory Functioning Questionnaire factor scores. However, the factor score for frequency of forgetting significantly correlated with global cerebral metabolic decline in all subjects regardless of APOE4 genetic risk (P = .01). By contrast, the factor score for mnemonics use significantly correlated with metabolic decline in the temporal regions in APOE4 carriers but not in noncarriers (P = .03). The degree of perceived memory loss correlates with subsequent global cerebral metabolic decline for APOE4 carriers and noncarriers; hence, memory complaints may reflect underlying cerebral metabolic changes. Compensatory strategies, as reflected by more frequent mnemonics use in APOE4 carriers, may reflect underlying metabolic changes in the brain regions associated with prodromal Alzheimer disease. Self-reported mnemonics use may be helpful in identifying persons for clinical monitoring."}
{"id": "16552500", "title": "Exploring a mathematical model for the kinetics of beta-amyloid molecular imaging probes through a critical analysis of plaque pathology.", "content": "Exploring a mathematical model for the kinetics of beta-amyloid molecular imaging probes through a critical analysis of plaque pathology. Amyloid plaques are highly heterogeneous in content, size, density, and macromolecular crowding, as they are composed of masses of fibrils and other cellular material. Given this target architecture, the aggregated microenvironment offers a unique imaging target for ligands and positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging probes (MIPs). In this work, we address how the heterogeneous microenvironment of a plaque and its evolution may affect the kinetic rate constant of PET MIPs. We argue that macromolecular crowding will result in anomalous diffusion within plaque regions. To account for anomalous diffusion within plaques, we propose a diffusion-limited ligand-receptor compartmental model. Given the current state of knowledge about the pathological progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the model's parameters may be a function of the pathological progression of AD, which could result in biased estimates of the true amyloid load. The bias may be partially overcome through evaluation in conjunction with other measures of AD progression including cerebral glucose metabolism rate, neuronal cell loss, and activated inflammatory presence."}
{"id": "16551131", "title": "Assessing neurocognitive dysfunction in cranial radiotherapy: can cognitive event-related potentials help?", "content": "Assessing neurocognitive dysfunction in cranial radiotherapy: can cognitive event-related potentials help? Cognitive changes are common sequelae of cancer and cancer treatment, particularly in patients receiving cranial radiotherapy (RT). These effects are typically assessed by subjective clinical examination or using objective neuropsychological tests. Biologically based neurophysiological methods have been increasingly applied to the study of cognitive processing in neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders and as objective measures of cognitive status for patients with dementia. These methods detect the activation of neural circuits that directly mediate cognitive function in the human brain and include metabolic and electrophysiology based techniques. Neuroimaging procedures such as 18FDG PET and more recently fMRI, which detect metabolic activation associated with cognitive processing, provide excellent spatial resolution and can be directly correlated with neuroradiological findings associated with cranial RT neurotoxicity. Clinical electrophysiology procedures such as cognitive event-related potentials (ERP), which detect the neuronal electrical activity associated with cognitive processing, offer excellent temporal resolution at low cost. Cognitive ERP techniques are already being used to assess severity and progression of cognitive dysfunction in patients with vascular and degenerative dementias, but have been largely overlooked in studies of radiation-related cognitive impairments. We review these various electrophysiological methods in the context of their relevance to assessing cranial RT effects on cognitive function, and provide recommendations for a neurophysiological approach to supplement current neuropsychological tests for RT cognitive impairments. This technology is well suited for clinical assessment of neurocognitive sequelae of cancer and should provide new insights into the mechanism of RT-related cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "16550383", "title": "Comparison of the diagnostic performance of FDG-PET and VBM-MRI in very mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparison of the diagnostic performance of FDG-PET and VBM-MRI in very mild Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of( 18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the same group of patients with very mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thirty patients with very mild AD (age 67.0+/-5.8 years; MMSE score 25.5+/-1.2, range 24-28), 32 patients with mild AD (age 67.0+/-4.5 years, MMSE score 22.1+/-0.8, range 21-23) and 60 age- and sex-matched normal volunteers underwent both FDG-PET and three-dimensional spoiled gradient echo MRI. Statistical parametric mapping was used to conduct voxel by voxel analysis and Z score mapping. First, the region of interest (ROI) maps of significant reductions in glucose metabolism and grey matter density in the mild AD patients were defined. Secondly, analysis of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for Z scores in the ROI maps discriminating very mild AD patients and normal controls was performed. In mild AD patients, FDG-PET indicated significant reductions in glucose metabolism in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri and the right parietotemporal area, while VBM analysis showed a significant decrease in grey matter volume density in the bilateral amygdala/hippocampus complex, compared with the normal control group. ROC analysis showed that in very mild AD patients the accuracy of FDG-PET diagnosis was 89% and that of VBM-MRI diagnosis was 83%. The accuracy of the combination of FDG-PET and VBM-MRI diagnosis was 94%. In very mild AD, both FDG-PET and VBM-MRI had high accuracy for diagnosis, but FDG-PET showed slightly higher accuracy than VBM-MRI. Combination of the two techniques will yield a higher diagnostic accuracy in very mild AD by making full use of functional and morphological images."}
{"id": "16549415", "title": "Relationship between regional cerebral metabolism and consciousness disturbance in traumatic diffuse brain injury without large focal lesions: an FDG-PET study with statistical parametric mapping analysis.", "content": "Relationship between regional cerebral metabolism and consciousness disturbance in traumatic diffuse brain injury without large focal lesions: an FDG-PET study with statistical parametric mapping analysis. The cerebral metabolism of patients in the chronic stage of traumatic diffuse brain injury (TDBI) has not been fully investigated. To study the relationship between regional cerebral metabolism (rCM) and consciousness disturbance in patients with TDBI. 52 patients with TDBI in the chronic stage without large focal lesions were enrolled, and rCM was evaluated by fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) with statistical parametric mapping (SPM). All the patients were found to have disturbed consciousness or cognitive function and were divided into the following three groups: group A (n = 22), patients in a state with higher brain dysfunction; group B (n = 13), patients in a minimally conscious state; and group C (n = 17), patients in a vegetative state. rCM patterns on FDG-PET among these groups were evaluated and compared with those of normal control subjects on statistical parametric maps. Hypometabolism was consistently indicated bilaterally in the medial prefrontal regions, the medial frontobasal regions, the cingulate gyrus and the thalamus. Hypometabolism in these regions was the most widespread and prominent in group C, and that in group B was more widespread and prominent than that in group A. Bilateral hypometabolism in the medial prefrontal regions, the medial frontobasal regions, the cingulate gyrus and the thalamus may reflect the clinical deterioration of TDBI, which is due to functional and structural disconnections of neural networks rather than due to direct cerebral focal contusion."}
{"id": "16546680", "title": "Change of central cholinergic receptors following lesions of nucleus basalis magnocellularis in rats: search for an imaging index suitable for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Change of central cholinergic receptors following lesions of nucleus basalis magnocellularis in rats: search for an imaging index suitable for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Cholinergic system in the central nervous system is involved in the memory function. Thus, because the dysfunction of cholinergic system that project to the cerebral cortex from nucleus basalis of Meynert (nbM) would be implicated in the memory function deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD), evaluating cholinergic function may be useful for the early detection of AD. In this study, because the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) in rats is equivalent to nbM in human, we investigated the change in cholinergic receptors in the frontal cortex of rats with unilateral lesion to the NBM to find an appropriate index for the early detection of AD using techniques of nuclear medicine. The right NBM was injected with ibotenic acid. [(18)F]FDG-PET images were obtained 3 days later. Some rats were sacrificed at 1 week, whereas others were subjected to a second [(18)F]FDG-PET at 4 weeks then sacrificed for membrane preparation. The prepared membranes were subjected to radioreceptor assays to measure the density of nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. Glucose metabolism had decreased on the damaged side compared to the control side at 3 days, but at 4 weeks, there was no difference between the sides. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors had significantly decreased in density compared to the control side at both 1 and 4 weeks. However, muscarinic receptors were not affected. These results suggested that neuronal dysfunction in AD could be diagnosed at an early stage by imaging nicotinic acetylcholine receptors."}
{"id": "16544964", "title": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism after an expedition to high altitudes.", "content": "Changes in cerebral glucose metabolism after an expedition to high altitudes. The possibility of persistent cerebral impairment due to exposure to extreme altitude and resulting hypoxic conditions is of great concern to both high altitude mountaineers and researchers. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of prolonged exposure to hypoxia on cerebral glucose metabolism, which probably precedes structural and functional impairment. Positron emission tomography (PET) employing [18F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) was performed, and the normobaric hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR) was assessed in 11 mountaineers before (pre) and after (post) climbing Mount Shisha Pangma (8048 m). During the climb, acute mountain sickness (AMS) symptoms were recorded and heart rate and oxygen saturation (SaO2) were measured daily. Neuropsychological evaluations were conducted at different heights. The difference FDGpost- FDGpre was analyzed voxel by voxel using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) and volumes of interest (VOI). SPM revealed two areas of increased cerebral FDG uptake after the expedition, one localized in the left cerebellum (+9.4%) and one in the white matter lateral of the left thalamus (+8.3%). The VOI analysis revealed increased postexpeditional metabolism in an area of the right cerebellum (+11%) and of the thalamus bilaterally (+3.7% on the left, +4.6% on the right). FDG-PET alterations did not correlate with changes in SaO2, HVR, or AMS scores. All neuropsychological test results during the climb were unremarkable. We conclude that a prolonged stay at an extreme altitude leads to regional specific changes in the cerebral glucose metabolism without any signs of neuropsychological impairment during the climb."}
{"id": "16534207", "title": "Orbitofrontal dysfunction related to both apathy and disinhibition in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Orbitofrontal dysfunction related to both apathy and disinhibition in frontotemporal dementia. Orbitofrontal metabolic impairment is characteristic of the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fv-FTD), as are early changes in emotional and social conduct. Two main types of behavioral disturbances have been distinguished in fv-FTD patients: apathetic and disinhibited manifestations. In this study, we searched for relationships between brain metabolism and presence of apathetic or disinhibited behavior. Metabolic activity and behavioral data were collected in 41 fv-FTD patients from European PET centers. A conjunction analysis of the PET data showed an expected impairment of metabolic activity in the anterior cingulate, ventromedial and orbital prefrontal cortex, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the left anterior insula in fv-FTD subjects compared to matched controls. A correlation was observed between disinhibition scores on the Neuropsychiatric Inventory scale and a cluster of voxels located in the posterior orbitofrontal cortex (6, 28, -24). Comparison of brain activity between apathetic and nonapathetic fv-FTD patients from two centers also revealed a specific involvement of the posterior orbitofrontal cortex in apathetic subjects (4, 22, -22). The results confirm that the main cerebral metabolic impairment in fv-FTD patients affects areas specializing in emotional evaluation and demonstrate that decreased orbitofrontal activity is related to both disinhibited and apathetic syndromes in fv-FTD."}
{"id": "16510269", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia accompanied by environmental sound agnosia: a neuropsychological, MRI and PET study.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia accompanied by environmental sound agnosia: a neuropsychological, MRI and PET study. As part of the frontotemporal dementias, primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is typically characterized by nonfluent speech with paraphasias, but there is growing evidence that also a fluent variant of PPA exists. We describe a patient suffering from PPA who adds to the broad clinical spectrum of this disorder. Moreover, we report for the first time that PPA may be associated with severe impairment in meaningful nonverbal sound recognition (environmental sound agnosia). These neuropsychological findings were found to be associated with distinct focal alterations in functional and structural neuroimaging."}
{"id": "16496032", "title": "Brain imaging and cognitive dysfunctions in Huntington's disease.", "content": "Brain imaging and cognitive dysfunctions in Huntington's disease. Recent decades have seen tremendous growth in our understanding of the cognitive dysfunctions observed in Huntington's disease (HD). Advances in neuroimaging have contributed greatly to this growth. We reviewed the role that structural and functional neuroimaging techniques have played in elucidating the cerebral bases of the cognitive deficits associated with HD. We conducted a computer-based search using PubMed and PsycINFO databases to retrieve studies of patients with HD published between 1965 and December 2004 that reported measures on cognitive tasks and used neuroimaging techniques. Structural neuroimaging has provided important evidence of morphological brain changes in HD. Striatal and cortical atrophy are the most common findings, and they correlate with cognitive deficits in attention, working memory and executive functions. Functional studies have also demonstrated correlations between striatal dysfunction and cognitive performance. Striatal hypoperfusion and decreased glucose utilization correlate with executive dysfunction. Hypometabolism also occurs throughout the cerebral cortex and correlates with performance on recognition memory, language and perceptual tests. Measures of presynaptic and postsynaptic dopamine biochemistry have also correlated with measurements of episodic memory, speed of processing and executive functioning. Aided by the results of numerous neuroimaging studies, it is becoming increasingly clear that cognitive deficits in HD involve abnormal connectivity between the basal ganglia and cortical areas. In the future, neuroimaging techniques may shed the most light on the pathophysiology of HD by defining neurodegenerative disease phenotypes as a valuable tool for knowing when patients become \"symptomatic,\" having been in a gene-positive presymptomatic state, and as a biomarker in following the disease, thereby providing a prospect for improved patient care."}
{"id": "16493230", "title": "The role of biomarkers in clinical trials for Alzheimer disease.", "content": "The role of biomarkers in clinical trials for Alzheimer disease. Biomarkers are likely to be important in the study of Alzheimer disease (AD) for a variety of reasons. A clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is inaccurate even among experienced investigators in about 10% to 15% of cases, and biomarkers might improve the accuracy of diagnosis. Importantly for the development of putative disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer disease, biomarkers might also serve as indirect measures of disease severity. When used in this way, sample sizes of clinical trials might be reduced, and a change in biomarker could be considered supporting evidence of disease modification. This review summarizes a meeting of the Alzheimer's Association's Research Roundtable, during which existing and emerging biomarkers for AD were evaluated. Imaging biomarkers including volumetric magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography assessing either glucose utilization or ligands binding to amyloid plaque are discussed. Additionally, biochemical biomarkers in blood or cerebrospinal fluid are assessed. Currently appropriate uses of biomarkers in the study of Alzheimer disease, and areas where additional work is needed, are discussed."}
{"id": "16470518", "title": "Brain imaging evidence of preclinical Alzheimer's disease in normal aging.", "content": "Brain imaging evidence of preclinical Alzheimer's disease in normal aging. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that baseline glucose metabolism and medial temporal lobe brain volumes are predictive of cognitive decline in normal older people. We performed positron emission tomography using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and structural magnetic resonance imaging at baseline in 60 cognitively normal community-dwelling older subjects who were part of a longitudinal cohort study. Subjects were followed for a mean of 3.8 years, with approximately annual evaluation of global cognition (the Modified Mini-Mental State Examination) and episodic memory (delayed recall). Baseline brain volumes and glucose metabolism were evaluated in relation to the rate of change in cognitive test scores. Six subjects developed incident dementia or cognitive impairment (converters). Baseline positron emission tomography scans showed regions in left and right angular gyrus, left mid-temporal gyrus, and left middle frontal gyrus that predicted the rate of change on the Modified Mini-Mental State Examination (p < 0.001). The left hemisphere temporal and parietal regions remained significant when converters were excluded. Both hippocampal (p = 0.03) and entorhinal cortical volumes (p = 0.01) predicted decline on delayed recall over time, and entorhinal cortical volumes remained significant when converters were excluded (p = 0.02). These brain volumes did not predict Modified Mini-Mental State Examination decline. These results indicate that temporal and parietal glucose metabolism predict decline in global cognitive function, and medial temporal brain volumes predict memory decline in normal older people. The anatomical location of these findings suggests detection of preclinical Alzheimer's disease pathology."}
{"id": "16455626", "title": "Brain white-matter volume loss and glucose hypometabolism precede the clinical symptoms of Huntington's disease.", "content": "Brain white-matter volume loss and glucose hypometabolism precede the clinical symptoms of Huntington's disease. We studied the anatomic and functional changes in various brain areas during the course of Huntington's disease (HD) in a large cohort of mutation-positive individuals (n = 71) encompassing the complete range of disability (presymptomatic through stage V), and in healthy controls, for the purpose of defining both degenerative and dysfunctional brain changes in the same subjects. We used an MRI and unsupervised multiparametric segmentation procedure based on a relaxometric approach to measure in vivo brain volumes in 71 subjects with presymptomatic to advanced HD. The same population was evaluated by 18F-FDG PET to assess variations in brain glucose metabolism. To predict age at onset in unaffected mutation carriers, we considered the estimated number of years from each subject's age to manifested HD symptoms, for a given expanded triplet number. Age-adjusted analyses confirmed that the 71 subjects as a group, as well as the subgroup of 24 unaffected presymptomatic subjects at risk for HD, had significantly smaller gray-matter and white-matter volumes and larger cerebrospinal fluid volumes than did controls (P < 0.0001). In the 24 presymptomatic subjects, we observed a significant inverse linear correlation between white-matter volume reduction and the estimated time to symptom onset (r2= 0.39; P = 0.0011). Both clinically unaffected subjects at risk for HD and symptomatic patients had significantly decreased glucose uptake in the cortex (frontal and temporal lobes) and striatum (caudate and putamen). HD subjects who were followed up longitudinally showed progressive white-matter reduction in the preclinical subjects (n = 10) and decreased glucose uptake in the cortex and striatum in affected (n = 21) and preclinical (n = 10) subjects. White-matter volume loss may precede gray-matter atrophy and may be associated with neuronal dysfunction in early disease."}
{"id": "16452658", "title": "Locus ceruleus degeneration promotes Alzheimer pathogenesis in amyloid precursor protein 23 transgenic mice.", "content": "Locus ceruleus degeneration promotes Alzheimer pathogenesis in amyloid precursor protein 23 transgenic mice. Locus ceruleus (LC) degeneration and loss of cortical noradrenergic innervation occur early in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although this has been known for several decades, the contribution of LC degeneration to AD pathogenesis remains unclear. We induced LC degeneration with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-bromo-benzylamine (dsp4) in amyloid precursor protein 23 (APP23) transgenic mice with a low amyloid load. Then 6 months later the LC projection areas showed a robust elevation of glial inflammation along with augmented amyloid plaque deposits. Moreover, neurodegeneration and neuronal loss significantly increased. Importantly, the paraventricular thalamus, a nonprojection area, remained unaffected. Radial arm maze and social partner recognition tests revealed increased memory deficits while high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging-guided micro-positron emission tomography demonstrated reduced cerebral glucose metabolism, disturbed neuronal integrity, and attenuated acetylcholinesterase activity. Nontransgenic mice with LC degeneration were devoid of these alterations. Our data demonstrate that the degeneration of LC affects morphology, metabolism, and function of amyloid plaque-containing higher brain regions in APP23 mice. We postulate that LC degeneration substantially contributes to AD development."}
{"id": "16435412", "title": "[70-year-old woman with depressive symptoms and personality change].", "content": "[70-year-old woman with depressive symptoms and personality change]. A seventy-year-old woman, formerly healthy and active, gradually changed and withdrew from social contact. She was admitted to a psychogeriatric ward with depressive symptoms, delusions and change of personality. We treated the condition as a depressive psychosis, but with little success. She was mentally rigid, withdrawn, behaved inappropriately and did not cooperate in the treatment. After months of gradual worsening we suspected frontotemporal dementia. Cognitive testing showed abnormal scores in tasks of executive functions but no major memory or language problems. Computerised tomography was negative. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) showed marked hypoperfusion especially in the frontal lobes and with the lowest function on the left side. The investigations thus supported the diagnosis. All medication was tapered and she moved to a dementia care unit in her community. The case illustrates some of the diagnostic challenges in psychogeriatric medicine. Early frontotemporal dementia may easily be mistaken for depression, especially when apathy and withdrawal is dominant (apathetic/pseudodepressive subtype) and not disinhibition and inappropriate behaviour (disinhibited subtype)."}
{"id": "16385090", "title": "Cerebral oxygen metabolism and neuronal integrity in patients with impaired vasoreactivity attributable to occlusive carotid artery disease.", "content": "Cerebral oxygen metabolism and neuronal integrity in patients with impaired vasoreactivity attributable to occlusive carotid artery disease. It is still unclear that impaired cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) to acetazolamide is comparable to elevated oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) on positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with occlusive carotid diseases. Therefore, in this study, the authors aimed to clarify whether OEF is elevated in all patients with reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF) and CVR (type 3) on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and, if not, to specify the underlying pathophysiology of type 3 but normal OEF. This study included 46 patients who had decreased CBF and CVR on N-isopropyl-p-(123)I-iodoamphetamine SPECT in the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery area attributable to occlusive carotid diseases. Hemodynamic and metabolism parameters were determined in all patients by (15)O-gas PET, and neuronal integrity was evaluated in 19 patients using 11C-flumazenil (FMZ) PET. OEF was significantly elevated in 20 (43.5%) of 46 type 3 patients. Another 26 type 3 patients had normal OEF. Regression analysis showed that OEF significantly correlated with cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen and 11C-FMZ binding potential but not with other parameters. Subcortical infarction had no significant effect on OEF values. The results strongly suggest that type 3 patients with reduced CBF and CVR may be divided into 2 pathophysiologically different subgroups: misery perfusion attributable to hemodynamic compromise and matched hypometabolism attributable to incomplete infarction. Type 3 but normal OEF may represent a transition stage from misery perfusion to matched hypometabolism."}
{"id": "16330501", "title": "Clinical, imaging and pathological correlates of a hereditary deficit in verb and action processing.", "content": "Clinical, imaging and pathological correlates of a hereditary deficit in verb and action processing. Selective verb and noun deficits have been observed in a number of neurological conditions and their occurrence has been interpreted as evidence for different neural networks underlying the processing of specific word categories. We describe the first case of a familial occurrence of a selective deficit of verb processing. Father (Individual I) and son (Individual II) developed a movement disorder resembling progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and associated with dementia. A second child of Individual II remained symptom-free on consecutive examinations. The dissociation between the processing of nouns and verbs in Individuals I and II was confirmed with different methods, including a longitudinal assessment of naming, comprehension, picture and word association, as well as a lexical decision task. The difference remained stable on follow-up testing despite overall deterioration. It was associated with left-sided frontal hypometabolism on FDG-PET imaging (Individual II) and with ubiquitin-positive inclusions on post-mortem examination (Individual I). The association of a selective verb deficit with a familial movement disorder raises the question whether related genetic factors might influence both movements and their abstract conceptual representations in the form of action verbs. By demonstrating a link between pathology, genetics, imaging and abstract cognitive impairments this study advances our understanding of degenerative brain disease with implications for both neuroscience and clinical practice."}
{"id": "16311757", "title": "Visual rating of medial temporal lobe metabolism in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease using FDG-PET.", "content": "Visual rating of medial temporal lobe metabolism in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease using FDG-PET. This study was designed to examine the utility of visual inspection of medial temporal lobe (MTL) metabolism in the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) using FDG-PET scans. Seventy-five subjects [27 normal controls (NL), 26 MCI, and 22 AD] with FDG-PET and MRI scans were included in this study. We developed a four-point visual rating scale to evaluate the presence and severity of MTL hypometabolism on FDG-PET scans. The visual MTL ratings were compared with quantitative glucose metabolic rate (MR(glc)) data extracted using regions of interest (ROIs) from the MRI-coregistered PET scans of all subjects. A standard rating evaluation of neocortical hypometabolism was also completed. Logistic regressions were used to determine and compare the diagnostic accuracy of the MTL and cortical ratings. For both MTL and cortical ratings, high intra- and inter-rater reliabilities were found (p values <0.001). The MTL rating was highly correlated with and yielded a diagnostic accuracy equivalent to the ROI MR(glc) measures (p values <0.001). The combination of MTL and cortical ratings significantly improved the diagnostic accuracy over the cortical rating alone, with 100% of AD, 77% of MCI, and 85% of NL cases being correctly identified. This study shows that the visual rating of MTL hypometabolism on PET is reliable, yields a diagnostic accuracy equal to the quantitative ROI measures, and is clinically useful and more sensitive than cortical ratings for patients with MCI. We suggest this method be further evaluated for its potential in the early diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "16300967", "title": "Declarative memory impairments in Alzheimer's disease and semantic dementia.", "content": "Declarative memory impairments in Alzheimer's disease and semantic dementia. Semantic dementia (SD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are both disorders in which early pathology affects the temporal lobe yet they produce distinct syndromes of declarative memory impairment-loss of established semantic knowledge with relatively preserved episodic memory in the former and the converse in the latter. Groups with mild SD and mild AD who showed a double dissociation in these two aspects of declarative memory were studied-the SD group's episodic memory and the AD group's semantic knowledge each being comparable to controls. Positron emission tomography and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging were used to map deficits in regional cerebral metabolic rate and mesial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy, respectively. Episodic memory impairment in AD was associated with dysfunction of an integrated network (mesial temporal lobe, mamillary bodies, dorso-mesial thalamus and posterior cingulate). Semantic memory impairment in SD was associated with bilateral rostral temporal lobe hypometabolism. The SD group had comparable MTL atrophy and hypometabolism to that found in AD but the remainder of their limbic-diencephalic network was preserved suggesting that the latter explains their ability to acquire new episodic memories. The results challenge the view that amnesia in early AD can be explained by the degree of MTL damage alone while showing that semantic impairment can occur with damage restricted to the rostral temporal lobes."}
{"id": "16298237", "title": "Combined 99mTc-ECD SPECT and neuropsychological studies in MCI for the assessment of conversion to AD.", "content": "Combined 99mTc-ECD SPECT and neuropsychological studies in MCI for the assessment of conversion to AD. Identifying pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a major issue in clinical diagnosis. Establishing a combination of predictive markers from different fields of research might help in increasing the diagnostic accuracy. Aim of this study was to evaluate the potential role of 99mTc-ECD single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and memory scores in predicting conversion to AD in MCI subjects. Thirty-one MCI subjects underwent a clinical and neuropsychological examination, and a regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) SPECT scan at baseline. Subjects had been followed periodically through 2 years in order to monitor the progression of cognitive symptoms. Canonical variate analysis of principal components was able to separate all subjects who converted to AD from those who remained stable, the former being characterized by a specific hypometabolic pattern, involving the parietal and temporal lobes, precuneus, and posterior cingulate cortex. Canonical correlation analysis of combined baseline memory deficits and rCBF SPECT images identified pre-clinical AD with a sensitivity and specificity of 77.8%. The pattern of hypoperfusion 99mTc-ECD SPECT and the severity of memory deficits predict the risk of progression to probable AD dementia in MCI subjects."}
{"id": "16292330", "title": "PET network abnormalities and cognitive decline in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "PET network abnormalities and cognitive decline in patients with mild cognitive impairment. Temporoparietal and posterior cingulate metabolism deficits characterize patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A H(2)(15)O resting PET scan covariance pattern, derived by using multivariate techniques, was previously shown to discriminate 17 mild AD patients from 16 healthy controls. This AD covariance pattern revealed hypoperfusion in bilateral inferior parietal lobule and cingulate; and left middle frontal, inferior frontal, precentral, and supramarginal gyri. The AD pattern also revealed hyperperfusion in bilateral insula, lingual gyri, and cuneus; left fusiform and superior occipital gyri; and right parahippocampal gyrus and pulvinar. In an independent sample of 23 outpatients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) followed at 6-month intervals, the AD pattern score was evaluated as a predictor of cognitive decline. In this MCI sample, an H2(15)O resting PET scan was carried out at baseline. Mean duration of follow-up was 48.8 (SD 15.5) months, during which time six of 23 MCI patients converted to AD. In generalized estimating equations (GEE) analyses, controlling for age, sex, education, and baseline neuropsychological scores, increased AD pattern score was associated with greater decline in each neuropsychological test score over time (Mini Mental State Exam, Selective Reminding Test delayed recall, Animal Naming, WAIS-R digit symbol; Ps<0.01-0.001). In summary, a resting PET covariance pattern previously reported to discriminate AD patients from control subjects was applied prospectively to an independent sample of MCI patients and found to predict cognitive decline. Independent replication in larger samples is needed before clinical application can be considered."}
{"id": "16258980", "title": "Rapid loss of striatal VMAT2 binding associated with onset of Lewy body dementia.", "content": "Rapid loss of striatal VMAT2 binding associated with onset of Lewy body dementia."}
{"id": "16247783", "title": "Neural correlates of anosognosia for cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neural correlates of anosognosia for cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease. We explored the neural substrate of anosognosia for cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two hundred nine patients with mild to moderate dementia and their caregivers assessed patients' cognitive impairment by answering a structured questionnaire. Subjects rated 13 cognitive domains as not impaired or associated with mild, moderate, severe, or very severe difficulties, and a sum score was calculated. Two measures of anosognosia were derived. A patient's self assessment, unconfounded by objective measurements of cognitive deficits such as dementia severity and episodic memory impairment, provided an estimate of impaired self-evaluative judgment about cognition in AD. Impaired self-evaluation was related to a decrease in brain metabolism measured with 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in orbital prefrontal cortex and in medial temporal structures. In a cognitive model of anosognosia, medial temporal dysfunction might impair a comparison mechanism between current information on cognition and personal knowledge. Hypoactivity in orbitofrontal cortex may not allow AD patients to update the qualitative judgment associated with their impaired cognitive abilities. Caregivers perceived greater cognitive impairments than patients did. The discrepancy score between caregiver's and patient's evaluations, an other measure of anosognosia, was negatively related to metabolic activity located in the temporoparietal junction, consistent with an impairment of self-referential processes and perspective taking in AD."}
{"id": "16049637", "title": "Longitudinal PET evaluation of cerebral glucose metabolism in rivastigmine treated patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Longitudinal PET evaluation of cerebral glucose metabolism in rivastigmine treated patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. In this study 11 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) were treated with the cholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine (mean dose 8.6 +/- 1.3'mg) for 12 months and underwent positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) and neuropsychological testing at baseline and after 12 months. An untreated group of 10 AD patients served as control group. While the untreated AD patients showed a significant decline of CMRglc in the temporo-parietal and frontal cortical regions after 12 months follow-up the rivastigmine-treated patients showed no decline in CMRglc in corresponding cortical brain regions. Furthermore, a significant dose-related increase in CMRglc was recorded in the right frontal association region after 12 months rivastigmine treatment. A positive correlation was observed between changes in CMRglc and several cognitive tests in patients receiving higher doses (10.5-12'mg) of rivastigmine. These results suggest a stabilization effect of rivastigmine on CMRglc in mild AD patients receiving long-term rivastigmine treatment."}
{"id": "16601791", "title": "New magnetic resonance spectroscopy biomarker for monitoring neurodegenerative diseases: animal models.", "content": "New magnetic resonance spectroscopy biomarker for monitoring neurodegenerative diseases: animal models. Creatine kinase (CK) plays a central role in energy transfer in cells with high-energy demands, and the enzyme is rather susceptible to oxidative inactivation. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the rate constant of forward CK reaction (k(for)) is a suitable indicator of alterations in cerebral energy metabolism. We monitored k(for) in the rat brain non-invasively by in vivo phosphorus ((31)P) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). To alter energy metabolism, we applied following experimental models: Huntington's disease, diabetes mellitus, chronic alcohol intoxication and chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (vascular dementia model). Results of our (31)P MRS experiment confirm importance of creatine kinase/phosphocreatinine (CK/PCr) system in the regulation of brain energy metabolism in vivo because a kinetic parameter k(for) was significantly changed in all above animal models that simulate neurodegenerative diseases or commonly during oxidative stress. Using this method we distinguished vascular dementia (VD) and Huntington disease (HD), because in VD model a kinetic parameter k(for) decreased and in the case HD increased. Considering the importance of CK for the maintenance of energy homeostasis in the brain, it is conceivable that an alteration of this enzyme activity in the brain may be one of the mechanisms by which various neurodegenerative diseases might be monitored just by means saturation transfer method (31)P MRS."}
{"id": "16424838", "title": "Bedside microdialysis reflects dysfunction of cerebral energy metabolism in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage as confirmed by 15 O-H2 O-PET and 18 F-FDG-PET.", "content": "Bedside microdialysis reflects dysfunction of cerebral energy metabolism in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage as confirmed by 15 O-H2 O-PET and 18 F-FDG-PET. To compare microdialysis (MD) and positron emission tomography (PET) in the detection of ischemia in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients. 15 SAH patients (13F/2M, 48+/-13 years, WFNS Grade I-V) were prospectively included in the study. A MD-catheter was inserted into the brain parenchyma most likely to be affected by vasospasm directly after aneurysm clipping. Glucose, pyruvate, lactate, glutamate and glycerol were analyzed hourly (CMA 600). 15O-H2O-PET scans (n=10) and 18F-FDG-PET scans (n=13) were performed between the day 2 and 17 after SAH. 15O-H2O-PET data were merged with CT scans to provide quantification of rCBF within the MD-ROI (rCBFMD; Amira, ZIB Berlin, Germany). 18F-FDG-PET data were evaluated visually by visual analysis. Regions of glucose hypometabolism were observed in 10 patients with symptoms of ischemia. Their rCBF was lower compared to asymptomatic patients (p<0.05). The MD levels of glutamate, lactate, the L/P ratio and glycerol were significantly higher in symptomatic than asymptomatic patients (p<0.05). Out of all measured MD parameters, glutamate showed the closest correlation with rCBF (r=-0.66, p=0.014). Microdialysis parameters were well correlated with glucose hypometabolism (18F-FDG-PET) and symptoms of ischemia. However, the threshold for a metabolic derangement was above the limits of cerebral ischemia defined by PET. MD is a useful tool to monitor ischemia, especially in patients with high-grade SAH."}
{"id": "16405264", "title": "[Autoimmune thyroid disease and brain].", "content": "[Autoimmune thyroid disease and brain]. Changes of the affective and cognitive function are usually associated with thyroid gland dysfunction. In autoimmune thyroid disease, these changes can be caused by thyroid dysfunction (hypo- or hyperthyroidism) or associated with the presence of antithyroid antibodies. Even a small change in thyroid hormone concentration is associated with change of cognitive function. In euthyroid older males, variation of total and free thyroxin accounts for about 10% of Wechsler adult intelligence test variance. In euthyroid females, lower cognitive function, measured by Mini Mental test, also correlates with blood thyroxin. Short-term (4 weeks) hypothyroidism induces clinically significant cognitivedysfunction, which is reversible by thyroid hormone substitution. Mild hypothyroidism (TSH less than 10) also induces reversible cognitive dysfunction. In hypothyroidism, PET scanning shows global reduction of brain blood flow and glucose metabolism. Hashimoto's encephalopathy is characterized by corticosteroid reversible encephalopathy associated with the presence of antithyroid antibodies. Encephalopathy can be manifested as multiple stroke-like episodes (vasculitis like), or as diffuse, progressive type characterized by dementia and psychiatric symptoms. In euthyroid patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and no evidence of neurological disease, SPECT showed brain perfusion abnormalities. Post mortem and brain biopsy findings can be normal or show perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. Recently, presence of antineuronal antibodies has been found in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Specific high reactivity against human alpha-enolase was high in patients with Hashimoto's encephalopathy, but absent in patients with other neurological disorders and healthy subjects. Specific antineural antibodies were found in another group of Hashimoto's encephalopathy patients. Furthermore, Ferracci et al, found antithyroid antibodies in the CSF of patients with Hashimoto's encephalopathy."}
{"id": "16400422", "title": "[Frontotemporal dementia non familial and generalized epilepsy].", "content": "[Frontotemporal dementia non familial and generalized epilepsy]. A 62 year-old patient is presented, without family antecedents of dementia who begins with 45 years of age with sudden crisis of dyspnea, blurred vision, fall to the floor and repetitive jerks of arms. Tried by epilepsy with phenytoin and valproate repeats similar crisis sporadically. Four years ago their relatives began to notice changes of personality, irritability and obsessive behaviors. Later on, are added episodes of disorientation of days of duration, some with auditory hallucinations and also convulsive manifestations. Finally appear polymorphic crisis, some with continue alteration of consciousness, catatonic states and sphincteric incontinence. Physical and neurological examination without abnormalities. Neuropsychological evaluation evidenced consistent defects in frontal functions. EEG showed widespread slowness and sporadic irritative activity in frontotemporal regions. Anterior cortical atrophy in CT scan and bilateral frontotemporal hypoperfusion in SPECT. Labs exams and CSF were normal. The association of FTD and epilepsy, in non-family form, suggests a different neurodegenerative cortical syndrome."}
{"id": "16305967", "title": "[Effects of needling in Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) on glucose metabolism in the lentiform nucleus in patients with vascular dementia].", "content": "[Effects of needling in Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) on glucose metabolism in the lentiform nucleus in patients with vascular dementia]. To observe the effect of needling in Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) on glucose metabolism in the lentiform nucleus in patients with vascular dementia. Ten patients with vascular dementia were randomized equally into control group to receive the treatment of needling in the routine acupoints for hemiplegia (chosen from 6 Yang meridians of hand and foot) and treatment group with needling in 3 additional acupoints of Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) for dementia. All the patients were examined by positron emission tomography (PET) to detect glucose metabolism in the bilateral lentiform nuclei before and after treatment. Glucose metabolism in the lentiform nucleus in normal lateral brain was obviously enhanced in the treatment group, but not in the bilateral lentiform nuclei in the control group after treatment. The effect of needling in Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) for treatment of vascular dementia may involve the enhancement of glucose metabolism in the lentiform nucleus."}
{"id": "16301490", "title": "Dystonic posturing in seizures of mesial temporal origin: electroclinical and metabolic patterns.", "content": "Dystonic posturing in seizures of mesial temporal origin: electroclinical and metabolic patterns. To test the hypothesis that extratemporal neuronal networks are involved in dystonic posturing (DP) observed in mesial temporal epilepsy (MTLE). The authors analyzed electroclinical findings in 36 patients with MTLE with or without DP. Three DP types were defined (types I, II, III) corresponding to a gradual increase in duration and complexity. Interictal [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-PET in different groups and subgroups was compared with control subjects using statistical parametric mapping software (SPM99). DP was found in 20 patients (55%), contralateral to the epileptogenic focus in 95%. Patients with DP had longer seizure duration, higher frequency of head deviation, salivation, motor manifestations, secondary generalization, severe clouding of consciousness, and prolonged postictal confusion when compared with patients without DP. Ictal discharge patterns during DP consisted of fast rhythmic activity spreading to frontal or suprasylvian areas, whereas slow rhythmic activity restricted to the temporal areas occurred in the absence of DP. In patients with DP, widespread temporal and extratemporal hypometabolism including the putamen was found. Hypometabolism was restricted to the anteromesial part of the temporal lobe and anterior insula in patients without DP. Putaminal hypometabolism was found in all DP types, but different extratemporal cortical involvements were found in DP subgroups: insula and inferior frontal gyrus in type I, inferior and superior frontal gyri and anterior cingulate gyrus in type II, and parietal areas in type III. Dystonic posturing may result from involvement of both putaminal and extratemporal cortical areas. Moreover, different frontal or parietal networks may be involved according to the duration or complexity of dystonic posturing."}
{"id": "16286547", "title": "Heterogeneity of brain glucose metabolism in mild cognitive impairment and clinical progression to Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Heterogeneity of brain glucose metabolism in mild cognitive impairment and clinical progression to Alzheimer disease. Subjects with amnesic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) may include patients at high risk for progression to Alzheimer disease (AD) and a population with different underlying pathologic conditions. To evaluate the potential roles of positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose F 18 (18FDG-PET) and memory scores in identifying subjects with aMCI and in predicting progression to dementia. Sixty-seven patients at European centers for neurologic and AD care who were diagnosed as having aMCI each underwent an extensive clinical and neuropsychological examination and an 18FDG-PET study. Forty-eight subjects were followed up periodically for at least 1 year, and progression to dementia was evaluated. Brain glucose metabolism and memory scores. Fourteen subjects with aMCI who converted to AD within 1 year showed bilateral hypometabolism in the inferior parietal, posterior cingulate, and medial temporal cortex. Subjects with \"stable\" aMCI presented with hypometabolism in the dorsolateral frontal cortex. The severity of memory impairment, as evaluated by the California Verbal Learning Test-Long Delay Free Recall scores, correlated with the following brain metabolic patterns: scores less than 7 were associated with a typical 18FDG-PET AD pattern, and scores of 7 or higher were associated with hypometabolism in the dorsolateral frontal cortex and no progression to AD. These data provide evidence for clinical and functional heterogeneity among subjects with aMCI and suggest that 18FDG-PET findings combined with memory scores may be useful in predicting short-term conversion to AD."}
{"id": "16286436", "title": "Frontal lobe hypometabolism and impaired insight in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe hypometabolism and impaired insight in Alzheimer disease. The authors examined the relationship between impaired insight regarding cognitive and functional deficits and frontal cortex hypometabolism in 41 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was determined with (18F)fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. Level of insight was measured with the clinician-rated Neurobehavioral Rating Scale, and severity of global cognitive impairment was determined with the Mini-Mental State Exam. Inaccurate insight was correlated with glucose metabolic rate in the right lateral frontal cortex (Brodmann areas 6 and 45, and the lateral aspect of Brodmann areas 8 and 9) after controlling for global cognitive dysfunction. The findings from this study help to further elucidate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying impaired insight in AD, indicating a link between this important clinical phenomenon and dysmetabolism in a focal region of the right prefrontal cortex."}
{"id": "16283181", "title": "PET is better than perfusion SPECT for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease -- for.", "content": "PET is better than perfusion SPECT for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease -- for."}
{"id": "16283180", "title": "PET is better than perfusion SPECT for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease -- against.", "content": "PET is better than perfusion SPECT for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease -- against."}
{"id": "16254400", "title": "Adjusted scaling of FDG positron emission tomography images for statistical evaluation in patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Adjusted scaling of FDG positron emission tomography images for statistical evaluation in patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) gained increasing acceptance for the voxel-based statistical evaluation of brain positron emission tomography (PET) with the glucose analog 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) in patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease (AD). To increase the sensitivity for detection of local changes, individual differences of total brain FDG uptake are usually compensated for by proportional scaling. However, in cases of extensive hypometabolic areas, proportional scaling overestimates scaled uptake. This may cause significant underestimation of the extent of hypometabolic areas by the statistical test. To detect this problem, the authors tested for hypermetabolism. In patients with no visual evidence of true focal hypermetabolism, significant clusters of hypermetabolism in the presence of extended hypometabolism were interpreted as false-positive findings, indicating relevant overestimation of scaled uptake. In this case, scaled uptake was reduced step by step until there were no more significant clusters of hypermetabolism. In 22 consecutive patients with suspected AD, proportional scaling resulted in relevant overestimation of scaled uptake in 9 patients. Scaled uptake had to be reduced by 11.1% +/- 5.3% in these cases to eliminate the artifacts. Adjusted scaling resulted in extension of existing and appearance of new clusters of hypometabolism. Total volume of the additional voxels with significant hypometabolism depended linearly on the extent of the additional scaling and was 202 +/- 118 mL on average. Adjusted scaling helps to identify characteristic metabolic patterns in patients with suspected AD. It is expected to increase specificity of FDGPET in this group of patients."}
{"id": "16253483", "title": "Mapping of temporal and parietal cortex in progressive nonfluent aphasia and Alzheimer's disease using chemical shift imaging, voxel-based morphometry and positron emission tomography.", "content": "Mapping of temporal and parietal cortex in progressive nonfluent aphasia and Alzheimer's disease using chemical shift imaging, voxel-based morphometry and positron emission tomography. Little and controversial evidence is available from neuroimaging studies in progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNA). The goal of this study was to combine information from different imaging modalities in PNA compared with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Chemical shift imaging (CSI), voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) were used in 5 PNA, 10 AD patients and 10 normal subjects. Group comparisons revealed left anterior lateral temporal abnormalities (BA20/21) in PNA using CSI, VBM and PET in comparison to normal subjects. AD patients showed more limited hypometabolism within the same area. In addition left lateral parietal (BA40) abnormalities were demonstrated in our PNA as well as our AD group using PET and VBM (AD group only). Combining information from all imaging modalities on a single case basis revealed pathology within the left anterior lateral temporal and lateral parietal lobe both in PNA and AD. PNA and AD patients differed significantly, however, with respect to the frequency of medial temporal lobe and posterior cingulate/precuneus involvement. Although our results might not be generalizable to all subgroups of PNA, we conclude that medial temporal and posterior cingulate/precuneus cortex pathology as assessed by CSI and VBM or PET distinguish PNA from AD, whereas lateral temporal and parietal areas are involved in both conditions."}
{"id": "16240413", "title": "Positron emission tomography methods with potential for increased understanding of mental retardation and developmental disabilities.", "content": "Positron emission tomography methods with potential for increased understanding of mental retardation and developmental disabilities. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a technique that enables imaging of the distribution of radiolabeled tracers designed to track biochemical and molecular processes in the body after intravenous injection or inhalation. New strategies for the use of radiolabeled tracers hold potential for imaging gene expression in the brain during development and following interventions. In addition, PET may be key in identifying the physiological consequences of gene mutations associated with mental retardation. The development of high spatial resolution microPET scanners for imaging of rodents provides a means for longitudinal study of transgenic mouse models of genetic disorders associated with mental retardation. In this review, we describe PET methodology, illustrate how PET can be used to delineate biochemical changes during brain development, and provide examples of how PET has been applied to study brain glucose metabolism in Rett syndrome, serotonin synthesis in autism, and GABAA receptors in Angelman's syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome. Future application of PET scanning in the study of mental retardation might include measurements of brain protein synthesis in fragile X syndrome and tuberous sclerosis complex, two common conditions associated with mental retardation in which cellular mechanisms involve dysregulation of protein synthesis. Mental retardation results in life-long disability, and application of new PET technologies holds promise for a better understanding of the biological underpinnings of mental retardation, with the potential to uncover new treatment options."}
{"id": "16237363", "title": "Correlation of ventricular asymmetry with metabolic asymmetry in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Correlation of ventricular asymmetry with metabolic asymmetry in frontotemporal dementia. The clinical presentation of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is often asymmetrical in terms of both its clinical features and atrophy on MRI. Asymmetry in the lateral ventricle size on structural neuroimaging in FTD patients may have clinical significance. However, this has not been systematically investigated yet. This study compares the ventricular asymmetry seen on MRI with that of the asymmetric glucose metabolism using FDG-PET in patients with FTD. Nineteen FTD patients who underwent both brain MRI and FDG-PET were retrospectively selected. As control groups, 23 and 11 age and sex-matched healthy normal subjects underwent either brain MRI or FDG-PET, respectively. The ventricular asymmetry index (VAI) was obtained in two ways: by visual rating (VAI-V) and by measuring the lateral ventricular volumes (VAI-ROI). The hemispheric asymmetry of the glucose metabolism on FDG-PET (MAI) was assessed in three ways: 1) by visual rating (MAI-V), 2) by counting the FDG activity of each hemisphere on normalized and smoothed PET images (MAI-ROI) and 3) by counting the number of voxels with significant hypometabolism based on statistical parametric mapping results (MAI-SPM). The VAIs on MRI (VAI-V and VAI-ROI) were highly correlated, as were the MAIs (MAI-V, MAI-ROI, and MAI-SPM) on FDG-PET. More importantly, the VAIs on MRI and the MAIs on FDG-PET showed high correlation. Ventricular asymmetry in FTD patients was common (78.9%) and there was a high correlation between the ventricular structural asymmetry and the hemispheric metabolic asymmetry. Therefore, it would be reasonable to interpret that the hemisphere with larger ventricle on MRI in FTD patients is undergoing a more active degenerative process."}
{"id": "16204723", "title": "Synthesis and biodistribution of (11)C-GW7845, a positron-emitting agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-{gamma}.", "content": "Synthesis and biodistribution of (11)C-GW7845, a positron-emitting agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-{gamma}. The goal of this study was to synthesize and evaluate in vivo the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonist (11)C-GW7845 ((S)-2-(1-carboxy-2-{4-[2-(5-methyl-2-phenyloxazol-4-yl)ethoxy]phenyl}ethylamino)benzoic acid methyl ester) ((11)C-compound 1). PPARgamma is a member of a family of nuclear receptors that plays a central role in the control of lipid and glucose metabolism. Compound 1 is an analog of tyrosine (inhibitor constant, 3.7 nmol/L), which is an inhibitor of experimental mammary carcinogenesis. Protection of the carboxylic acid moiety of compound 1 was effected by treatment with N,N-dimethylformamide di-tert-butyl acetal to provide compound 2. Hydrolysis of the carbomethoxy group of compound 2 provided the benzoic acid (compound 3) that served as an immediate precursor to radiolabeling. Compound 3 underwent treatment with (11)C-methyl iodide followed by high-performance liquid chromatography to produce a radioactive peak sample that coeluted with a standard sample of compound 1. Analysis of biodistribution was undertaken by injecting male CD-1 mice via the tail vein with 6.03 MBq (163 microCi, 2.55 microg/kg) of (11)C-compound 1. To determine the tumor uptake of the radiotracer, 6 female SCID mice bearing MCF-7 xenografts were injected via the tail vein with 10.5 MBq (283 microCi, 0.235 microg/kg) of (11)C-compound 1. (11)C-Compound 1 was synthesized at an 8% radiochemical yield in 29 min with an average specific radioactivity of 1,222 GBq/micromol (33,024 mCi/micromol; n = 6) at the end of synthesis. Spleen (target)-to-muscle uptake and tumor-to-muscle uptake ratios were 3.1 and 1.5, respectively, but this uptake could not be blocked with unlabeled compound 1 at 2 mg/kg. Further structural modification, perhaps to generate a less lipophilic tyrosine analog, will be necessary to enable receptor-mediated PPARgamma imaging by this class of agents."}
{"id": "16204712", "title": "Prediction of individual clinical outcome in MCI by means of genetic assessment and (18)F-FDG PET.", "content": "Prediction of individual clinical outcome in MCI by means of genetic assessment and (18)F-FDG PET. Patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represent a risk population for progressing to dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). However, clinical criteria do not ensure reliable individual prognosis in these patients. The objective of this longitudinal, prospective study was to examine the value of (18)F-FDG PET of cerebral glucose metabolism and of genetic susceptibility, as defined by an APOEepsilon4-positive genotype, with regard to the early diagnosis of DAT in patients with MCI. In 30 patients with the diagnosis of MCI (16 female, 14 male; age, 70 +/- 8 y), baseline and follow-up examinations (mean observation period, 16 mo) were performed. In all patients, the APOE genotype was assessed and cerebral glucose metabolism was evaluated at baseline using cranial (18)F-FDG PET. Individual PET data were screened for findings suggestive of Alzheimer's disease (AD), with the help of an automated computer program. After stereotactical normalization of the PET images, this program performs an observer-independent statistical comparison with an age-matched reference database (n = 22). In 43% of all MCI subjects, a PET scan suggestive of AD pathology according to our predefined criteria was observed at baseline (PET+); 57% of all MCI patients were carriers of the APOE epsilon4 allele (e4+). In 40% of all patients, progression of symptoms within the observation period justified the clinical diagnosis of probable DAT at the time of follow-up reevaluation. Statistical evaluation revealed the best results for PET with regard to early diagnosis of DAT in MCI patients (sensitivity, 92%; specificity, 89%). Classification according to the APOE genotype was significantly less successful (sensitivity, 75%; specificity, 56%). However, a combination of both diagnostic tests allowed early diagnosis with either very high specificity (PET+ AND e4+: sensitivity, 67%; specificity, 100%) or very high sensitivity (PET+ OR e4+: sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 44%). (18)F-FDG PET of cerebral glucose metabolism is a valuable diagnostic tool for the prediction of clinical outcome in individual MCI patients. Results are superior to the exclusive assessment of the APOE genotype. A combination of both functional imaging and genotyping may allow an early high-risk or low-risk stratification of patients with either very high sensitivity or very high specificity. This may be valuable, for example, for patient selection in scientific studies."}
{"id": "16192725", "title": "Association between cognitive performance and cortical glucose metabolism in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Association between cognitive performance and cortical glucose metabolism in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. Neuronal and synaptic function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is measured in vivo by glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography (PET). We hypothesized that neuronal activation as measured by PET is a more sensitive index of neuronal dysfunction than activity during rest. We investigated if the correlations between dementia severity as measured with the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and glucose metabolism are an artifact of brain atrophy. Glucose metabolism was measured using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET during rest and activation due to audiovisual stimulation in 13 mild to moderate AD patients (MMSE score > or = 17). PET data were corrected for brain atrophy. In the rest condition, glucose metabolism was correlated with the MMSE score primarily within the posterior cingulate and parietal lobes. For the activation condition, additional correlations were within the primary and association audiovisual areas. Most local maxima remained significant after correcting for brain atrophy. PET activity measured during audiovisual stimulation was more sensitive to functional alterations in glucose metabolism in AD patients compared to the resting PET. The association between glucose metabolism and MMSE score was not dependent on brain atrophy."}
{"id": "16186542", "title": "Striatal dopamine D2 receptors, metabolism, and volume in preclinical Huntington disease.", "content": "Striatal dopamine D2 receptors, metabolism, and volume in preclinical Huntington disease. Among 27 preclinical carriers of the Huntington disease mutation (PMC), the authors found normal striatal values for MRI volumetry in 88% and for fluorodesoxyglucose PET metabolic index in 67%. Raclopride PET binding potential (RAC-BP) was decreased in 50% and correlated with increases in the product of age and CAG repeat length (p < 0.0005). Dopamine D2 receptor availability measured by RAC-BP seems the most sensitive indicator of early neuronal impairment in PMC."}
{"id": "16158388", "title": "Eburnamine derivatives and the brain.", "content": "Eburnamine derivatives and the brain. The Apocynaceae plant family contains a great number of so called eburnamine-vincamine alkaloids. Quite a few of these alkaloids exert varied pharmacological activities on the cell multiplication, cardiovascular system, and brain functions. Many derivatives were also synthesized to find pharmacologically active compounds better characterized and safer to be administered than the natural plant alkaloids themselves. We concentrate on the eburnamine structures with cerebral activities in this review. Vincamine, vinburnine, vindeburnol, apovincaminate, and vinpocetine (cis-ethyl-apovincaminate) all share modulatory effects on brain circulation and neuronal homeostasis, bear antihypoxic and neuroprotective potencies to various degrees. The most eminent compound of this class of alkaloids is vinpocetine. Since its introduction to the market as a neuroprotective agent many non clinical and clinical studies proved vinpocetine's effects on calmodulin dependent phosphodiesterase E1, on sodium, calcium channels, peripheral benzodiazepine receptor, and glutamate receptors as well as its clinical usefulness in the treatment of post-ischaemic stroke disease states and various disorders of cerebrovascular origin. Lately, positron emission tomography studies proved that vinpocetine has a rapid uptake in the primate and human brain with a heterogeneous distribution pattern (preference areas: thalamus, basal ganglia, and visual cortex) both after intravenous and oral administration. Vinpocetine exerts beneficial effects in cerebral glucose metabolism and regional cerebral blood flow in chronic post-stroke patients."}
{"id": "16158009", "title": "Validating the DemTect with 18-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography as a sensitive neuropsychological screening test for early alzheimer disease in patients of a memory clinic.", "content": "Validating the DemTect with 18-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography as a sensitive neuropsychological screening test for early alzheimer disease in patients of a memory clinic. The first study to validate the diagnostic value of the DemTect, a short neuropsychological screening test for dementia (8-10 min), using 18-fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in patients of a memory clinic. DemTect results were compared to the clinical diagnosis and to FDG-PET as a reference method for the early in vivo detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 38 patients (age 65.2 +/- 9.8 years, 16 men, 22 women) were investigated using clinical standard examination, FDG-PET, and cranial magnetic resonance imaging. According to NINCDS-ADRDA and Petersen's criteria, 18 patients had dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 13 patients received the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Compared to the clinical diagnosis, a DemTect cutoff score of < or =11 points demonstrated good sensitivity (83.3%) and specificity (70.0%) for the detection of DAT, whereas the best cutoff score for MCI was < or =13 points with comparable sensitivity (84.6%) and specificity (85.7%). With regard to FDG-PET, the DemTect demonstrated excellent sensitivity (93%) and low specificity (50%) for the detection of AD-typical patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism (cutoff < or =13 points). DemTect is a favorable neuropsychological screening instrument for detecting cognitive dysfunction even in predementia stages of AD. For definite cross-sectional diagnosis, further diagnostic evaluation with higher specificity, e.g. comprehensive neuropsychological examination, FDG-PET or other biomarkers, is necessary."}
{"id": "16134735", "title": "Effects of the dopaminergic agent and NMDA receptor antagonist amantadine on cognitive function, cerebral glucose metabolism and D2 receptor availability in chronic traumatic brain injury: a study using positron emission tomography (PET).", "content": "Effects of the dopaminergic agent and NMDA receptor antagonist amantadine on cognitive function, cerebral glucose metabolism and D2 receptor availability in chronic traumatic brain injury: a study using positron emission tomography (PET). This study was performed to assess effects of amantadine (AMH), a dopaminergic agent and NMDA antagonist, on chronic traumatic brain injury (TBI). The primary hypotheses were that amantadine treatment would result in executive function improvement and increased activity in pre-frontal cortex. An open-label design was used. Twenty-two subjects underwent neuropsychological testing pre- and post-12 week treatment. Six subjects also underwent PET scanning. Amantadine 400 mg was administered per day. Significant improvements on tests of executive function were observed with treatment. Analysis of PET data demonstrated a significant increase in left pre-frontal cortex glucose metabolism. There was a significant positive correlation between executive domain scores and left pre-frontal glucose metabolism. This is the first known study to assess amantadine in chronic TBI using PET and the data are consistent with the hypotheses. The conduction of further studies is warranted."}
{"id": "16110274", "title": "Education-associated cortical glucose metabolism during sustained attention.", "content": "Education-associated cortical glucose metabolism during sustained attention. Despite research suggesting that education may mitigate cognitive sequelae of neural injury, little is known about interactions between education and regional brain function. We examined whether educational experience is associated with relative glucose metabolism in brain regions that are important for sustained attention and learning. Fourteen healthy adults, with 12-18 years of schooling, underwent positron emission tomography scanning with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose during an auditory continuous discrimination task. Years of education correlated positively with relative glucose metabolism in the lingual gyri (bilaterally), left posterior cingulate gyrus, and left precuneus. Previously, these structures have shown early impairment in dementia. Further investigation should explore whether metabolic changes in these regions contribute to the possible protective effect of education on cognition."}
{"id": "16110265", "title": "Cerebral acetylcholine esterase activity in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cerebral acetylcholine esterase activity in mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment may be an early clinical manifestation of Alzheimer's disease, but there are also patients who remain stable or remit. In-vivo measurements of cortical acetylcholine esterase activity by positron emission tomography have shown that it is reduced in Alzheimer's disease, and we investigated whether there is also a reduction in mild cognitive impairment. A significant reduction was observed in three of eight patients, and a significant association was found with progression to Alzheimer's disease within 18 months. These results suggest that low cortical acetylcholine esterase activity may be an indicator of impending dementia in patients with mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "16109494", "title": "Fatal familial insomnia: a model disease in sleep physiopathology.", "content": "Fatal familial insomnia: a model disease in sleep physiopathology. Fatal Familial Insomnia (FFI) is characterized by loss of sleep, oneiric stupor with autonomic/motor hyperactivity and somato-motor abnormalities (pyramidal signs, myoclonus, dysarthria/dysphagia, ataxia). Positon emission tomography (PET) disclosed thalamic hypometabolism and milder involvement of the cortex; neuropathology severe neuronal loss in the thalamic nuclei variably affecting the caudate, gyrus cinguli and fronto-temporal cortices. Genetic analysis disclosed a mutation in the PRNP gene and FFI was transmitted to experimental animals, thus classifying FFI within the prion diseases. Rare Sporadic Fatal Insomnia (SFI) cases occur without PRNP mutation but with features similar to FFI. FFI represents a model disease for the study of sleep-wake regulation: (I) the profound thalamic hypometabolism/atrophy associated with lack of sleep spindles and delta sleep implicate the thalamus in the origin of slow wave sleep (SWS); (II) loss of SWS is associated with marked autonomic and motor hyperactivity; termed 'agrypnia excitata', this association has been proposed as a useful clinical concept representative of thalamo-limbic dysfunction; (III) lack of SWS occurs with substantial preservation of stage 1 NREM sleep, implying that the latter has mechanisms different from SWS and unaffected by thalamic atrophy; accordingly, conflating stage 1 NREM with SWS into NREM sleep is inappropriate."}
{"id": "16107352", "title": "Lateralisation of striatal function: evidence from 18F-dopa PET in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Lateralisation of striatal function: evidence from 18F-dopa PET in Parkinson's disease. The aetiology of the cognitive changes seen in Parkinson's disease (PD) is multifactorial but it is likely that a significant contribution arises from the disruption of dopaminergic pathways. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of the dopaminergic system to performance on two executive tasks using (18)F-6-fluorodopa positron emission tomography ((18)F-dopa PET) in PD subjects with early cognitive changes. 16 non-demented, non-depressed PD subjects were evaluated with the Tower of London (TOL) spatial planning task, a verbal working memory task (VWMT) and (18)F-dopa PET, all known to be affected in early PD. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) localised brain regions in which (18)F-dopa uptake covaried with performance scores. Frontal cortical resting glucose metabolism was assessed with (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ((18)F-FDG) PET. SPM localised significant covariation between right caudate (18)F-dopa uptake (Ki) and TOL scores and between left anterior putamen Ki and VWMT performance. No significant covariation was found between task scores and (18)F-dopa Ki values in either limbic or cortical regions. Frontal cortical glucose metabolism was preserved in all cases. These findings support a causative role of striatal dopaminergic depletion in the early impairment of executive functions seen in PD. They suggest that spatial and verbal executive tasks require integrity of the right and left striatum, respectively, and imply that the pattern of cognitive changes manifest by a patient with PD may reflect differential dopamine loss in the two striatal complexes."}
{"id": "16095568", "title": "Cerebral metabolic dysfunction and impaired vigilance in recently abstinent methamphetamine abusers.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic dysfunction and impaired vigilance in recently abstinent methamphetamine abusers. Methamphetamine (MA) abusers have cognitive deficits, abnormal metabolic activity and structural deficits in limbic and paralimbic cortices, and reduced hippocampal volume. The links between cognitive impairment and these cerebral abnormalities are not established. We assessed cerebral glucose metabolism with [F-18]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in 17 abstinent (4 to 7 days) methamphetamine users and 16 control subjects performing an auditory vigilance task and obtained structural magnetic resonance brain scans. Regional brain radioactivity served as a marker for relative glucose metabolism. Error rates on the task were related to regional radioactivity and hippocampal morphology. Methamphetamine users had higher error rates than control subjects on the vigilance task. The groups showed different relationships between error rates and relative activity in the anterior and middle cingulate gyrus and the insula. Whereas the MA user group showed negative correlations involving these regions, the control group showed positive correlations involving the cingulate cortex. Across groups, hippocampal metabolic and structural measures were negatively correlated with error rates. Dysfunction in the cingulate and insular cortices of recently abstinent MA abusers contribute to impaired vigilance and other cognitive functions requiring sustained attention. Hippocampal integrity predicts task performance in methamphetamine users as well as control subjects."}
{"id": "16087769", "title": "Dopamine transporter positron emission tomography in spinocerebellar ataxias type 1, 2, 3, and 6.", "content": "Dopamine transporter positron emission tomography in spinocerebellar ataxias type 1, 2, 3, and 6. The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of autosomal dominant ataxias: some mutations, including SCA1, SCA2, and SCA3, are multisystemic disorders characterized by a variety of noncerebellar symptoms while others, like SCA6, give rise to a pure cerebellar syndrome. To identify impairments of the dopaminergic system and regional changes of glucose metabolism in SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, and SCA6. We used [11C]d-threo-methylphenidate and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography to identify cerebral dopamine terminal loss and specific regional metabolic patterns in SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, and SCA6. The binding potential of [11C]d-threo-methylphenidate was reduced in the striatum in SCA2 and SCA3; in contrast to patients with Parkinson disease, no increased susceptibility of the putamen was evident. Decreased regional cerebral glucose metabolism was found in the cerebellum of all patients with SCA, the brainstem of SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, the thalamus and putamen of SCA3, and the parietal cortex of patients with SCA2. A trend toward increased regional cerebral glucose metabolism was found in the temporal cortex of all patients with SCA, pronounced in SCA6. Specific biochemical patterns point to different mechanisms of neuronal dysfunction in SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, and SCA6; dopamine terminal loss is severe in SCA2 but distinct from Parkinson disease."}
{"id": "16000985", "title": "Whole-body PET/CT: spectrum of physiological variants, artifacts and interpretative pitfalls in cancer patients.", "content": "Whole-body PET/CT: spectrum of physiological variants, artifacts and interpretative pitfalls in cancer patients. Accurate diagnosis and staging in oncology is essential in the evaluation of cancer for optimal patient outcome. Conventional imaging techniques, such as computed tomography (CT), rely basically on morphological changes for tumour detection. Clinical experience, however, shows that morphological criteria may be misleading and may not always allow differentiation between benign and malignant lesions. Positron emission tomography (PET) with [F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is rapidly gaining a critical role in the clinical evaluation of patients with cancer. However, PET lacks anatomical landmarks for topographic orientation, and identification of abnormal glucose metabolic activity in regions close to organs with variable physiological FDG uptake can be difficult. To overcome these difficulties, a combined PET/CT scanner that acquires both functional (PET) and CT images has been recently developed. Proper interpretation of PET (and PET/CT) images requires a thorough understanding of the normal physiological distribution of FDG in the body, along with a knowledge of frequently encountered physiological variations in FDG distribution, and recognition of non-malignant causes of FDG uptake that can be confused with a malignant neoplasm. In addition, because of the utilization of the CT transmission information for the correction of the attenuation of the PET emission data (and for the reconstruction of the PET images), some artifacts may be generated. As a consequence, CT based attenuation correction of PET images may result in erroneous PET/CT interpretations. The aim of this extensively illustrated paper is to demonstrate several potential pitfalls encountered during the interpretation of PET/CT images so that radiologists can avoid false positive diagnoses and recognize inherently non-specific findings on PET/CT images obtained for oncological diagnosis."}
{"id": "15978784", "title": "Reduced glucose metabolism in temporo-parietal cortices of women with borderline personality disorder.", "content": "Reduced glucose metabolism in temporo-parietal cortices of women with borderline personality disorder. Individuals with borderline personality disorder (BPD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) often experience dissociative symptoms. Evidence is increasing that stress-related hyperglutamatergic states may contribute to dissociative symptoms and neurodegeneration in temporo-parietal cortical areas. Seventeen young women with BPD who had been exposed to severe childhood physical/sexual abuse and presented with pronounced dissociative symptoms underwent (18)fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). Nine healthy, matched volunteers served as comparison subjects. Borderline subjects displayed reduced FDG uptake (as analyzed by SPM) in the right temporal pole/anterior fusiform gyrus and in the left precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex. Impaired memory performance among borderline subjects was significantly correlated with metabolic activity in ventromedial and lateral temporal cortices. Our results demonstrate regional hypometabolism in temporal and medial parietal cortical regions known to be involved in episodic memory consolidation and retrieval. Currently, the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex is modeled as part of a network of tonically active brain regions that continuously gather information about the world around and within us. Decreased resting metabolic rate of these regions may reflect dissociative symptoms and possibly also identity disturbances and interpersonal difficulties of individuals with BPD."}
{"id": "15966270", "title": "Neuropsychological tests and functional nuclear neuroimaging provide evidence of subclinical impairment in Nasu-Hakola disease heterozygotes.", "content": "Neuropsychological tests and functional nuclear neuroimaging provide evidence of subclinical impairment in Nasu-Hakola disease heterozygotes. Nasu-Hakola disease is a rare, recessively inherited disease characterized by presenile dementia and bone cysts. Until now, no evidence of subclincal pathological changes in individuals heterozygous for the mutations underlying Nasu-Hakola disease has been reported. We performed a functional neuroimaging (99mTc-ECD SPECT) and neuropsychological study of healthy members of an Italian family carrying a mutation in the TREM2 gene. Two healthy subjects heterozygous for one mutated TREM2 allele showed a deficit of visuospatial memory associated with hypoperfusion in the basal ganglia, whereas the homozygotes for the wild-type allele of TREM2 did not show any abnormalities."}
{"id": "15955934", "title": "Reduced hippocampal metabolism in MCI and AD: automated FDG-PET image analysis.", "content": "Reduced hippocampal metabolism in MCI and AD: automated FDG-PET image analysis. To facilitate image analysis, most recent 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET (FDG-PET) studies of glucose metabolism (MRglc) have used automated voxel-based analysis (VBA) procedures but paradoxically none reports hippocampus MRglc reductions in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer disease (AD). Only a few studies, those using regions of interest (ROIs), report hippocampal reductions. The authors created an automated and anatomically valid mask technique to sample the hippocampus on PET (HipMask). Hippocampal ROIs drawn on the MRI of 48 subjects (20 healthy elderly [NL], 16 MCI, and 12 AD) were used to develop the HipMask. The HipMask technique was applied in an FDG-PET study of NL (n = 11), MCI (n = 13), and AD (n = 12), and compared to both MRI-guided ROIs and VBA methods. HipMask and ROI hippocampal sampling produced significant and equivalent MRglc reductions for contrasts between MCI and AD relative to NL. The VBA showed typical cortical effects but failed to show hippocampal MRglc reductions in either clinical group. Hippocampal MRglc was the only discriminator of NL vs MCI (78% accuracy) and added to the cortical MRglc in classifying NL vs AD and MCI vs AD. The new HipMask technique provides accurate and rapid assessment of the hippocampus on PET without the use of regions of interest. Hippocampal glucose metabolism reductions are found in both mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease and contribute to their diagnostic classification. These results suggest re-examination of prior voxel-based analysis 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET studies that failed to report hippocampal effects."}
{"id": "15937303", "title": "11C-DTBZ and 18F-FDG PET measures in differentiating dementias.", "content": "11C-DTBZ and 18F-FDG PET measures in differentiating dementias. Accurate, early differentiation of dementias will become increasingly important as new therapies are introduced. Differential diagnosis by standard clinical criteria has limited accuracy. PET offers the potential to increase diagnostic accuracy. (18)F-FDG studies detect metabolic abnormalities in demented patients, but with limited specificity. PET also offers the ability to quantify other biochemical markers that can yield additional useful diagnostic information. We demonstrate that (+)-(11)C-dihydrotetrabenazine ((11)C-DTBZ) studies, which provide an index of nigrostriatal terminal density (distribution volume; DV), also provide a measure of transport (K(1)) that produces information comparable to the metabolic measure of (18)F-FDG. Fifty-two patients and 19 control subjects underwent both (11)C-DTBZ and (18)F-FDG PET scans. Seven had the clinical diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 25 had Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 20 had dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). DTBZ scans provided maps of K(1) and DV, whereas (18)F-FDG scans provided maps of glucose metabolism. Correlation analyses were performed between the different PET measures both within and across subjects. Discriminant analysis using logistic regression compared the performance of (11)C-DTBZ K(1) and (18)F-FDG in differentiating subject groups. Three experienced PET researchers participated in an interrater reliability study using both (11)C-DTBZ K(1) and (18)F-FDG images. Within-subject correspondence between (11)C-DTBZ K(1) and (18)F-FDG measures was high, with correlations averaging 0.92. Correlations between the (11)C-DTBZ DV and either K(1) or (18)F-FDG were far lower, averaging 0.37 and 0.31, respectively, indicating the much higher degree of similarity in information provided by K(1) and (18)F-FDG compared with the very different information provided by (11)C-DTBZ DV. Discriminant analysis demonstrated that (11)C-DTBZ K(1) and (18)F-FDG yielded similar levels of sensitivity and specificity for differentiating the subjects in this study. Including (11)C-DTBZ DV in addition to either K(1) or (18)F-FDG improved discrimination between groups. The raters classified PET scans nearly equivalently using K(1) and (18)F-FDG. Multiple PET measures, whether 2 parameters from a single PET study such as (11)C-DTBZ K(1) and DV, or 2 parameters from different studies such as (18)F-FDG and (11)C-DTBZ DV, offer complementary information useful for diagnosing dementias. K(1) and DV images generated from a single (11)C-DTBZ scan provide as much diagnostic information as 2-scan studies using both (11)C-DTBZ and (18)F-FDG."}
{"id": "15932949", "title": "Correlations between apolipoprotein E epsilon4 gene dose and brain-imaging measurements of regional hypometabolism.", "content": "Correlations between apolipoprotein E epsilon4 gene dose and brain-imaging measurements of regional hypometabolism. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have abnormally low positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in regions of the precuneus and the posterior cingulate, parietotemporal, and frontal cortex. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 gene dose (i.e., the number of epsilon4 alleles in a person's APOE genotype) is associated with a higher risk of AD and a younger age at dementia onset. We previously found that cognitively normal late-middle-aged APOE epsilon4 carriers have abnormally low CMRgl in the same brain regions as patients with probable Alzheimer's dementia. In a PET study of 160 cognitively normal subjects 47-68 years of age, including 36 epsilon4 homozygotes, 46 heterozygotes, and 78 epsilon4 noncarriers who were individually matched for their gender, age, and educational level, we now find that epsilon4 gene dose is correlated with lower CMRgl in each of these brain regions. This study raises the possibility of using PET as a quantitative presymptomatic endophenotype to help evaluate the individual and aggregate effects of putative genetic and nongenetic modifiers of AD risk."}
{"id": "15929923", "title": "[In vivo imaging for evaluating synaptic integrity in Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[In vivo imaging for evaluating synaptic integrity in Alzheimer disease]. In vivo imaging of regional brain glucose metabolism or blood flow (which is coupled to glucose metabolism) can elucidate regional brain synaptic activity, which is supported by mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. In Alzheimer disease, postmortem evidence indicates that synaptic loss correlates with dementia severity, and that oxidative phosphorylation in individual neurons declines in relation to the severity of synaptic dysfunction and the intracellular accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles. Brain imaging in asymptomatic and diagnosed Alzheimer disease patients confirms and extends this scenario. Resting state brain glucose metabolism falls with dementia severity, particularly in brain association areas. However, the brain can be almost normally activated in the early stages of disease, although not during moderate-severe dementia. Thus, in vivo imaging during graded parametric stimulation can be used to evaluate synaptic efficacy, and the ability of therapeutic intervention to ameliorate synaptic dysfunction, in pre-symptomatic and diagnosed Alzheimer disease patients."}
{"id": "15918959", "title": "Neural damage caused by cerebral hyperperfusion after arterial bypass surgery in a patient with moyamoya disease: case report.", "content": "Neural damage caused by cerebral hyperperfusion after arterial bypass surgery in a patient with moyamoya disease: case report. The prognosis of cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome after vascular reconstructive surgery, including extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass, is not poor unless intracerebral hemorrhage develops secondary to hyperperfusion. A 48-year-old man with symptomatic moyamoya disease with misery perfusion in the right cerebral hemisphere underwent double right superficial temporal artery-to-middle cerebral artery bypasses. The postoperative course was uneventful until the patient developed headache and agitated delirium on the 4th postoperative day. Perfusion computed tomographic imaging demonstrated hyperperfusion in the right temporal lobe. The symptoms resolved by institution of intensive blood pressure control. Positron emission tomography performed 2 months after surgery demonstrated a postoperative reduction of the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in the right temporal lobe, where brain atrophy was observed on magnetic resonance images 3 months postoperatively. Neuropsychological testing performed 3 months postoperatively showed worsening digit span, which adversely affected the patient's quality of life. The current case suggests that cerebral hyperperfusion after vascular reconstructive surgery can cause irreversible neural damage, which results in cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "15912277", "title": "Toward the validation of functional neuroimaging as a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's disease: implications for drug development.", "content": "Toward the validation of functional neuroimaging as a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's disease: implications for drug development. Despite investments carried out in the research since Alzheimer's disease (AD) was firstly defined as an isolated clinical entity, there is still a lack of appropriate cure and effective therapies to halt or slow the disease progression. While fundamental research has provided a better characterization of AD, much remains to be done for the development of new biological treatment strategies. It is now being debated whether functional neuroimaging (FNI) could help improve diagnostic accuracy and become a possible biomarker of AD. The primary purpose of this review was to determine whether data already published in the literature meet formal technology assessment standards for using regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) or glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) as a biomarker for AD. The secondary purpose was to identify any remaining gaps that might need to be systematically addressed before drug developers and regulators accept FNI as a biomarker for AD. The present paper reviews the literature regarding metabolic positron emission tomography (PET) and perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies in AD. There is evidence that treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEI) leads to changes in brain physiology within the brain regions critical to AD pathology, i.e. the temporal, parietal and frontal association cortex. However, a thorough analysis combining functional and neuropsychological data has not yet been attempted, and much research is needed to validate the role of FNI as a surrogate endpoint for AD clinical trials."}
{"id": "15888536", "title": "Glucose metabolism in early onset versus late onset Alzheimer's disease: an SPM analysis of 120 patients.", "content": "Glucose metabolism in early onset versus late onset Alzheimer's disease: an SPM analysis of 120 patients. The aims of this cross-sectional study were (i) to compare the overall glucose metabolism between early onset and late onset Alzheimer's disease in a large sample of patients; and (ii) to investigate the pattern of glucose metabolism as a function of dementia severity in early onset versus late onset Alzheimer's disease, using a statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis. Subjects consisted of four groups: 74 patients with early onset Alzheimer's disease, 46 patients with late onset of the disease, and two control groups age matched to each patient group. All the subjects underwent 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG)-PET under the same scanning conditions. Severity of dementia was rated with the Clincial Dementia Rating (CDR). Voxel-based SPM99 was used for statistical analyses. Overall glucose hypometabolism of early onset Alzheimer's disease patients was much greater in magnitude and extent than that of late onset patients, though both groups were similar in dementia severity: the early onset group showed more severe hypometabolism in parietal, frontal and subcortical (basal ganglia and thalamus) areas. When the decline of glucose metabolism was compared as a function of CDR stage, the slope was steeper in early onset than in late onset Alzheimer's disease. The rapid decline occurred at CDR 0.5-1 in the early onset group, whereas similar changes occurred at CDR 2-3 in the late onset group. The greater hypometabolism in early onset than in late onset patients is required to reach the same severity of dementia, probably reflecting greater functional reserve in younger than in older subjects. Alternatively, the metabolic decline curve suggests that the early onset patients may take a more rapid course in the reduction of glucose metabolism than the late onset patients."}
{"id": "15856757", "title": "[The clinical utility of MR diffusion tensor imaging and spatially normalized PET to evaluate traumatic brain injury patients with memory and cognitive impairments].", "content": "[The clinical utility of MR diffusion tensor imaging and spatially normalized PET to evaluate traumatic brain injury patients with memory and cognitive impairments]. We detected and compared abnormal brain areas using both MR diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and easy Z score imaging system (eZIS) of FDG-PET for traumatic brain injury patients with memory and cognitive impairments. Twenty normal subjects and eighteen diffuse axonal injury patients with memory and cognitive impairments were studied with DTI and eZIS of 18F-FDG-PET. DTI contained fractional anisotorophy (FA) analysis and the tractography for the corpus callosum. After PET imaging was performed, statistical analysis using eZIS was undergone with followed processing steps, including smoothing, normalization and z transformation with respect to normal database. Z score map was superimposed on 3D MRI brain. Group analysis was performed using SPM. In diffuse axonal injury patients, the decline of FA was observed around the corpus callosum in comparison with normal subjects and the reduction of glucose metabolism was shown in the cingulated association. These results suggest that the reduction of metabolism within the cingulated cortex indicated deprived neuronal activation caused by the impaired neuronal connectivity that was revealed with DTI. Furthermore, the metabolic abnormalities within the cingulated cortex may be responsible for memory and cognitive impairments. DTI and spatially normalized PET have a role in neuroimaging interpretation for patients with memory and cognition impairments because its 3D better visualization allows objective and systematic investigation."}
{"id": "15844669", "title": "Slow wave and rem sleep mechanisms are differently altered in hereditary pick disease associated with the TAU G389R mutation.", "content": "Slow wave and rem sleep mechanisms are differently altered in hereditary pick disease associated with the TAU G389R mutation. Sleep disturbances are found in the course of most dementing syndromes. We report a longitudinal polysomnographic and 18FDG-PET study in a 38-year-old male with FTDP17 carrying the Tau gene mutation G389R. All-night sleep EEG and wake cerebral glucose metabolism at rest (eyes/ears covered) of the preceding day were studied twice, eight months (Night 1; PET 1) and sixteen months (Night 2; PET 2) after the initial neurological evaluation. The Night 1 study showed sleep fragmentation associated to a short REM latency and a severe reduction of slow wave sleep, with relatively preserved NREM-REM sleep cycles; daytime PET 1 revealed severe cerebral glucose metabolic reductions in frontal and temporal areas, with relative preservation of remaining cortical regions and subcortical structures. On Night 2, the total sleep time was less than 5 hours, delta sleep and REM latency remained shortened and only two sleep cycles could be identified; daytime PET 2 exam revealed a greater cortical metabolic impairment and an involvement of subcortical brain regions as compared to PET 1. Post-mortem neuropathological data showed severe neuronal loss, spongiosis and gliosis that were mostly marked in cortical layers I, II, V and VI. In vivo, neurometabolic and post-mortem neuropathological data are consistent with and indicative of a severe dysfunction of intra- and trans-hemispheric regional connectivity and of cortico-thalamic circuits. These findings suggest that the decreased cortical and subcortical connectivity may have been the main pathophysiological mechanism responsible for delta sleep reduction and the cognitive decline."}
{"id": "15814932", "title": "Detectability of hypometabolic regions in mild Alzheimer disease: function of time after the injection of 2-[fluorine 18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose.", "content": "Detectability of hypometabolic regions in mild Alzheimer disease: function of time after the injection of 2-[fluorine 18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. 2-[Fluorine 18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) has played an important role in detecting hypometabolic regions in the brains of patients with dementia. To our knowledge, the optimal imaging time for dementia has not been investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of the early scanning (ES) compared with late scanning (LS) for demonstrating decreased regional glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Twenty patients with mild AD (mean age +/- standard deviation, 64.8 +/- 5.2 years) and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers (age, 65.9 +/- 4.5 years) were underwent FDG PET. Their cerebral glucose metabolic images were obtained on ES at 30-42 minutes and LS at 60-72 minutes after the administration of FDG 185-346 MBq. We compared regional cerebral metabolic images in a voxel-by-voxel analysis with statistical parametric mapping between patients with AD and control subjects and evaluated the difference in the hypometabolic regions between the two scans. In the AD-to-healthy comparison, LS at the P < .001 level of significance showed more extensive and significant hypometabolic areas than did ES. These results indicate that LS is superior to ES in detecting hypometabolic regions in patients with AD. For patients with AD, emission scanning soon after the administration of FDG is probably not advised."}
{"id": "15809406", "title": "Alterations in regional cerebral glucose metabolism across waking and non-rapid eye movement sleep in depression.", "content": "Alterations in regional cerebral glucose metabolism across waking and non-rapid eye movement sleep in depression. Depression is associated with sleep disturbances, including alterations in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Non-rapid eye movement sleep is associated with decreases in frontal, parietal, and temporal cortex metabolic activity compared with wakefulness. To show that depressed patients would have less of a decrease than controls in frontal metabolism between waking and NREM sleep and to show that during NREM sleep, they would have increased activity in structures that promote arousal. Subjects completed electroencephalographic sleep and regional cerebral glucose metabolism assessments during both waking and NREM sleep using [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography. General clinical research center. The study included 29 unmedicated patients who met the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV criteria for current major depression and who had a score of 15 or greater on a 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and 28 medically healthy subjects of comparable age and sex who were free of mental disorders. Electroencephalographic sleep and regional cerebral metabolism during waking and NREM sleep. Depressed patients showed smaller decreases than healthy subjects in relative metabolism in broad regions of the frontal, parietal, and temporal cortex from waking to NREM sleep. Depressed patients showed larger decreases than healthy subjects in relative metabolism in the left amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex, cerebellum, parahippocampal cortex, fusiform gyrus, and occipital cortex. However, in post hoc analyses, depressed patients showed hypermetabolism in these areas during both waking and NREM sleep. The smaller decrease in frontal metabolism from waking to NREM sleep in depressed patients is further evidence for a dynamic sleep-wake alteration in prefrontal cortex function in depression. Hypermetabolism in a ventral emotional neural system during waking in depressed patients persists into NREM sleep."}
{"id": "15792822", "title": "Cerebral PET imaging and histological evidence of transglutaminase inhibitor cystamine induced neuroprotection in transgenic R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease.", "content": "Cerebral PET imaging and histological evidence of transglutaminase inhibitor cystamine induced neuroprotection in transgenic R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease. To investigate efficacy of cystamine induced neuroprotection, we conducted PET imaging studies of cerebral glucose metabolism with [(18)F]FDG (2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose) and striatal dopamine D2 receptor function with [(11)C]raclopride in R6/2 transgenic Huntington mice. In the control mice, exponentially decreasing glucose utilization was observed in the striatum N(str) [SUV]=(41.75+/-11.80)(58,str)*exp(-(0.041+/-0.007)*t [days]); cortex N(cort) [SUV]=24.14+/-3.66)(58,cort)*exp(-(0.043+/-0.007)*t [days]); and cerebellum N(cer) [SUV]=(34.97+/-10.58)(58,cer)*exp(-(0.037+/-0.008)*t [days]) as a function of age starting at 58 days. Given that the underlying degeneration rate in the cystamine treated mice is similar to that observed in control animals, the protection coefficient (beta) calculated from the equation N(t)=N(58)*exp(-(1-beta)*k*t) was 0.133+/-0.035 for the striatum; 0.122+/-0.028 for the cortex and 0.224+/-00.042 for the cerebellum with a dose of 100 mg/kg. The 50 mg/kg cystamine dose provided significant protection only for the striatum and only minor protection was obtained using lower doses. Striatal binding potential of [(11)C]raclopride was 1.059+/-0.030 in the control mice, and enhanced in the cystamine treated animals in a dose dependent manner up to 1.245+/-0.063 using the 100 mg/kg dose. Histological analysis confirmed cystamine induced neuroprotection of striatal and cortical neurons and Nissl staining revealed that formation of cellular inclusions was reversed in a dose dependent manner. Cerebral imaging and histological evidence support the use of cystamine as a neuroprotective agent for Huntington's disease (HD) pathology."}
{"id": "15747152", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in the early and specific diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. FDG-PET studies in MCI and AD.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in the early and specific diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. FDG-PET studies in MCI and AD. The demographics of aging suggest a great need for the early diagnosis of dementia and the development of preventive strategies. Neuropathology and structural MRI studies have pointed to the medial temporal lobe (MTL) as the brain region earliest affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD). MRI findings provide strong evidence that in mild cognitive impairments (MCI), AD-related volume losses can be reproducibly detected in the hippocampus, the entorhinal cortex (EC) and, to a lesser extent, the parahippocampal gyrus; they also indicate that lateral temporal lobe changes are becoming increasingly useful in predicting the transition to dementia. Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging has revealed glucose metabolic reductions in the parieto-temporal, frontal and posterior cingulate cortices to be the hallmark of AD. Overall, the pattern of cortical metabolic changes has been useful for the prediction of future AD as well as in distinguishing AD from other neurodegenerative diseases. FDG-PET on average achieves 90% sensitivity in identifying AD, although specificity in differentiating AD from other dementias is lower. Moreover, recent MRI-guided FDG-PET studies have shown that MTL hypometabolism is the most specific and sensitive measure for the identification of MCI, while the utility of cortical deficits is controversial. This review highlights cross-sectional, prediction and longitudinal FDG-PET studies and attempts to put into perspective the value of FDG-PET in diagnosing AD-like changes, particularly at an early stage, and in providing diagnostic specificity. The examination of MTL structures, which has so far been exclusive to MRI protocols, is then examined as a possible strategy to improve diagnostic specificity. All told, there is considerable promise that early and specific diagnosis is feasible through a combination of imaging modalities."}
{"id": "15734937", "title": "Pattern of cerebral hypoperfusion in Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment measured with arterial spin-labeling MR imaging: initial experience.", "content": "Pattern of cerebral hypoperfusion in Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment measured with arterial spin-labeling MR imaging: initial experience. To prospectively determine if pulsed arterial spin-labeling perfusion magnetic resonance (MR) imaging depicts regional cerebral hypoperfusion in subjects with Alzheimer disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), compared with perfusion in cognitively normal (CN) subjects, that is consistent with results of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies of similar populations. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained. Twenty subjects with AD (13 men, seven women; mean age, 72.9 years), 18 with MCI (nine men, nine women; mean age, 73.3 years), and 23 CN subjects (10 men, 13 women; mean age, 72.9 years) underwent arterial spin-labeling and volumetric T1-weighted structural MR imaging. Perfusion images were coregistered to structural images, corrected for partial volume effects (PVEs) with information from the structural image to determine tissue content of perfusion voxels, and normalized to a study-specific template. Analyses of perfusion differences between groups, with and without corrections for PVEs, were performed on a voxel-by-voxel basis with a one-tailed fixed-effects analysis of covariance model adjusted for age. In addition, tests were performed with and without accounting for global perfusion. The AD group showed significant regional hypoperfusion, compared with the CN group, in the right inferior parietal cortex extending into the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri (P <.001), bilateral superior and middle frontal gyri (P <.001), and left inferior parietal lobe (P=.007). When PVEs from underlying cortical gray matter atrophy were accounted for, the AD group still showed hypoperfusion in the right inferior parietal lobe extending into the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri (P <.001) and left (P=.003) and right (P=.012) middle frontal gyri. With a more liberal voxel-level threshold of P <.01, the MCI group showed significant regional hypoperfusion relative to the CN group in the inferior right parietal lobe (P=.046), similar to the region of greatest significance in the AD group. Arterial spin-labeling MR imaging showed regional hypoperfusion with AD, in brain regions similar to those seen in FDG PET and HMPAO SPECT studies of similar populations; this hypoperfusion persists after accounting for underlying cortical gray matter atrophy."}
{"id": "15734362", "title": "Atlas-guided non-uniform attenuation correction in cerebral 3D PET imaging.", "content": "Atlas-guided non-uniform attenuation correction in cerebral 3D PET imaging. Photon attenuation in tissues is the primary physical degrading factor limiting both visual qualitative interpretation and quantitative analysis capabilities of reconstructed Positron Emission Tomography (PET) images. This study investigates the implementation and applicability of transmission atlas-guided attenuation correction in cerebral 3D PET imaging, thus eliminating the need for acquisition of a measured transmission scan. Patient-specific attenuation map is derived by anatomic standardization through nonlinear warping of a stereotactic transmission template obtained by averaging 11 scans of normal subjects. This template is coregistered to a specially designed tracer-specific 18F-[FDG] template constructed by scanning 17 normal subjects in resting condition during tracer uptake in a dark room. This emission template is first coregistered and spatially normalized to preliminary PET images of subjects corrected for scatter and attenuation using an approximate calculated method. The resulting transformation matrices are recorded and re-applied to the transmission template. The derived attenuation map is then forward projected to generate attenuation correction factors to be used for correcting the subjects' PET data. Twelve cerebral clinical studies are used for evaluation of the developed attenuation correction technique as compared to the standard pre-injection measured transmission-based method used in clinical routine. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM2) analysis is used to assess significant differences between images obtained using both techniques. The subjective qualitative assessment shows no significant visual differences between atlas-guided and transmission-based attenuation correction methods. However, the quantitative voxel-based analysis comparing atlas-guided to transmission-based attenuation corrections suggest that regional brain metabolic activity increases significantly bilaterally in the superior frontal and precentral gyri, in addition to the left middle temporal gyrus and the left frontal lobe. Conversely, activity decreases in the corpus callosum in the left parasagittal region. A new non-uniform attenuation correction method is thus proposed, which is suitable for both research and clinical routine applications in 3D brain PET imaging on a transmissionless PET scanner or when a patient-specific transmission scan is not available."}
{"id": "15728305", "title": "Pattern of glucose hypometabolism in frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Pattern of glucose hypometabolism in frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) often coexists with motor neuron disease (MND). To characterize glucose hypometabolism in patients with FTD with MND (FTD/MND), the authors compared the glucose metabolism of 8 patients with FTD/MND with that of 29 patients with FTD. All of the patients with FTD/MND showed glucose hypometabolism only in the frontal area, whereas most patients with FTD had hypometabolism in the frontal and temporal areas. FTD/MND also showed a more symmetric pattern of glucose hypometabolism than FTD."}
{"id": "15728285", "title": "Clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. No method for the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) has been established except for pathologic examination. To identify a reliable marker for the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sCJD. CSF, EEG, and neuroimaging studies were performed in eight patients with MM2-type sCJD confirmed by neuropathologic, genetic, and western blot analyses. The eight cases were pathologically classified into the cortical (n = 2), thalamic (n = 5), and combined (corticothalamic) (n = 1) forms. The cortical form was characterized by late-onset, slowly progressive dementia, cortical hyperintensity signals on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) of brain, and elevated levels of CSF 14-3-3 protein. The thalamic form showed various neurologic manifestations including dementia, ataxia, and pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs with onset at various ages and relatively long disease duration. Characteristic EEG and MRI abnormalities were almost absent. However, all four patients examined with cerebral blood flow (CBF) study using SPECT showed reduction of the CBF in the thalamus as well as the cerebral cortex. The combined form had features of both the cortical and the thalamic forms, showing cortical hyperintensity signals on DWI and hypometabolism of the thalamus on [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET. For the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, cortical hyperintensity signals on diffusion-weighted MRI are useful for the cortical form and thalamic hypoperfusion or hypometabolism on cerebral blood flow SPECT or [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET for the thalamic form."}
{"id": "15726251", "title": "Working memory and FDG-PET dissociate early and late onset Alzheimer disease patients.", "content": "Working memory and FDG-PET dissociate early and late onset Alzheimer disease patients. The aims of this study were to determine the influence of the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) on 1) memory and cerebral glucose metabolism, 2) the relationships between cognitive performance and cerebral glucose metabolism. Brain metabolism was measured by 18FDG-PET in 12 early onset AD patients (age < 65 years) and 26 late onset ones (> 65), with comparable mean MMSE scores. Working memory, semantic memory and episodic memory were assessed. Cognitivo-metabolic correlations (CMC) and complementary interregional correlations were performed in order to identify specific neurocognitive processes within each group. Both AD groups performed poorly on all tasks, except digit span in the late onset group. The early onset group performed more poorly than the late onset one on both the digit span and Brown-Peterson Paradigm (BPP) tasks. Temporo-parietal hypometabolism was found in both groups, the left hemisphere being more affected than the right, especially in the early onset patients, who also showed specific left frontal hypometabolism. For the BPP task, the CMC principally involved left frontal areas in the early onset group, and the cerebellum in the late onset one. For the digit span task, they involved cerebellar and occipital regions in the latter. Regarding the digit span, the occipital and cerebellar involvement may have reflected an effective compensatory mechanism in the late onset patients, while high left supramarginal gyrus hypometabolism in the early onset patients may have explained their failure in this task. In the BPP task, the lower performance of the early onset group may have been due to a frontal lobe dysfunction, as suggested by 1) the hypometabolism of this region, 2) the CMC results, 3) the interregional correlations, which indicated greater disruption of the antero- posterior loop."}
{"id": "15722899", "title": "Emission tomography in dementia.", "content": "Emission tomography in dementia. Dementia is a chronic brain syndrome with enormous impact on health care provision. Emission tomography (single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET)) provides a unique tool to investigate functional and neurochemical changes, both in those with established dementia and in those at risk of subsequent cognitive decline. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion on SPECT and hypometabolism on PET, which may precede the onset of dementia as similar changes can be demonstrated in those with mild cognitive impairment and in those genetically at risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In dementia with Lewy bodies medial parietal and occipital perfusion deficits are seen together with pre-synaptic and post-synaptic dopaminergic changes, most particularly a reduction in the striatal pre-synaptic dopamine transporter which can be visualized using appropriate ligands (e.g., (123)I-FP-CIT). Vascular dementia is associated with multiple, asymmetric, perfusion deficits in multi-infarct dementia. In contrast, subcortical vascular dementia is associated with reduced perfusion but preserved oxygen extraction fraction on PET. Fronto-temporal dementia is characterized by both hypometabolism and hypoperfusion in fronto-temporal lobes, though hypometabolism appears more extensive, affecting large areas of the cerebral hemispheres. Longitudinal studies of treatment response in Alzheimer's disease with cholinergic drugs have found changes in regional blood flow and nicotinic and muscarinic receptor function in those patients who respond to treatment. Currently, emission tomography is widely used for assisting with clinical differential diagnosis. Future developments will entail the development and application of more specific neurochemical ligands and those which bear a closer relationship to the underlying disease processes, including markers of tau, amyloid and synuclein pathology."}
{"id": "15708297", "title": "Anger and depression in cocaine addiction: association with the orbitofrontal cortex.", "content": "Anger and depression in cocaine addiction: association with the orbitofrontal cortex. The high prevalence of anger, impulsivity and violence in cocaine addiction implicates chronic cocaine use in the compromise of higher-order inhibitory control neurocognitive processes. We used the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2) anger content scale as a personality measure of inhibitory control and examined its association with glucose metabolism in the lateral orbitofrontal gyrus (LOFG) at rest as measured by positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-D-glucose (PET (18)FDG) in 17 recently abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects and 16 comparison subjects. Three additional variables--the MMPI-2 depression content scale, metabolism in the medial orbitofrontal gyrus (MOFG) and the anterior cingulate (AC) gyrus--were inspected. When level of education was statistically controlled for, the LOFG was significantly associated with anger within the cocaine group. No other region was associated with anger within the cocaine-dependent group, and the LOFG did not correlate with depression within any of the study groups. The present study confirms earlier reports in demonstrating a positive association between relative metabolism at rest in the LOFG and cognitive-behavioral and personality measures of inhibitory control in drug addiction: the higher the metabolism, the better the inhibitory control."}
{"id": "15705358", "title": "Regional cerebral metabolism in early Alzheimer's disease with clinically significant apathy or depression.", "content": "Regional cerebral metabolism in early Alzheimer's disease with clinically significant apathy or depression. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is clinically characterized by cognitive impairment and behavioral disturbances. The aim of the study was to identify regional alterations in brain function associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms in early AD. Patients underwent measures of cerebral glucose metabolism applying positron emission tomography (PET) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose. Neuropsychiatric symptoms were assessed using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Positron emission tomography images of patients suffering a neuropsychiatric symptom of clinical significance (NPI subscore for a specific item >/=4 points) were compared with the images of patients without the specific symptom under study (NPI subscore for a specific item = 0 points). A total of 53 patients with AD (Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] 22.5 +/- 2.94 points) entered the study. Of all symptoms, apathy and depression were most frequently encountered. The patient group with apathy (n = 17) revealed significant decreases in left orbitofrontal regions when compared with patients free of apathy. Depression of clinical significance (n = 10) was associated with hypometabolism in dorsolateral prefrontal regions. These findings support the notion that different functional circuits underlie apathy and depression in early AD."}
{"id": "15695781", "title": "18F-FDG PET findings in frontotemporal dementia: an SPM analysis of 29 patients.", "content": "18F-FDG PET findings in frontotemporal dementia: an SPM analysis of 29 patients. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a common cause of presenile dementia. The aim of the current study was 2-fold: (a) to delineate the brain regions with reduction of glucose metabolism, and (b) to investigate the hemispheric asymmetry of glucose metabolism in FTD using (18)F-FDG PET. We compared the regional metabolic patterns on (18)F-FDG PET images obtained from 29 patients with FTD and 11 healthy subjects using a voxel-wise analysis (statistical parametric mapping [SPM]). The hemispheric asymmetry of glucose metabolism was computed based on 2 different measures: one (AI(ROI)) by counting the (18)F-FDG activity of each hemisphere on the normalized and spatially smoothed PET images and the other (AI(SPM)) by counting the number of voxels with significant hypometabolism based on SPM results. Significant hypometabolism was identified in extensive prefrontal areas, cingulate gyri, anterior temporal regions, and the left inferior parietal lobule. Hypometabolism was also found in the bilateral insula and uncus, left putamen and globus pallidus, and medial thalamic structures. Frontal hypometabolism was more prominent in the left hemisphere than in the right. Twenty-six (90%) of the 29 patients with FTD had AI(ROI) values indicating significant lateralization of glucose metabolism; 18 patients had hypometabolism more severe on the left than right side, and only 8 patients had the opposite pattern. Results from AI(SPM) showed similar patterns. The voxel-wise analysis of (18)F-FDG PET images of patients with FTD revealed hypometabolism in extensive cortical regions, such as frontal and anterior temporal areas, cingulate gyri, uncus, and insula and subcortical areas, including basal ganglia (putamen and globus pallidus) and medial thalamic regions. The hemispheric asymmetry of hypometabolism (more frequently lateralized to the left) was common in patients with FTD, which may be another metabolic feature that helps to differentiate FTD from Alzheimer's disease or other causes of dementia."}
{"id": "15668960", "title": "Glucose metabolism and serotonin receptors in the frontotemporal lobe degeneration.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and serotonin receptors in the frontotemporal lobe degeneration. In patients with the frontal variant of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (fv-FTLD), behavioral abnormalities may vary from apathy with motor slowness (apathetic form) to disinhibition with agitation (disinhibited form). These clinical presentations may be related to specific regional cerebral dysfunction and to deficit in the serotoninergic system. We studied cerebral glucose uptake using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography in 18 patients fulfilling clinical criteria for fv-FTLD and showing, respectively, an apathetic or disinhibited behavioral syndrome. In eight of these patients, we also evaluated the 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptor cerebral receptor distribution with [(11)C]MDL and positron emission tomography. We found a reduction of frontal glucose metabolism in the whole group of fv-FTLD patients. Apathetic syndrome was associated with a prevalent dorsolateral and frontal medial hypometabolism, whereas the disinhibited syndrome demonstrated a selective hypometabolism in interconnected limbic structures (the cingulate cortex, hippocampus/amygdala, and accumbens nucleus). The in vivo measurements of [(11)C]MDL indicated a significant reduction of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors in orbitofrontal, frontal medial, and cingulate cortices. These (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography changes can be considered as specific functional markers of the different behavioral presentations in fv-FTLD. The serotoninergic system dysfunction provides a rationale for therapeutic trials with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors."}
{"id": "15654552", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy: variant of Alzheimer's disease? A case series with PET findings.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy: variant of Alzheimer's disease? A case series with PET findings. Nine patients with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), a rare degenerative brain disease of unclear etiology and nosology, were followed over a mean time of 7.4 years. The mean age at onset was low (56.2 years). At onset, eight patients had visuo-spatial and eight had memory impairment. A minority showed early signs of occipital lobe involvement with visual agnosia or hemianopia. Eight patients developed dementia after a mean course of five years. 18F-FDG-PET data of six patients were analysed with statistical parametric mapping. They showed hypometabolism centred on the lateral and medial parietal associative cortex, with variable involvement of the adjacent temporal and occipital associative cortex. A minority showed involvement of the frontal lobes, possibly related to deafferenting of areas related to the control of eye movements. Atrophy and hypometabolism were markedly asymmetric in a subset of cases. Autopsy was performed in one patient. Presenile onset, location, and asymmetry of atrophy suggest that PCA represents a biologically separable variant of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15642911", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with AD and different APOE genotypes.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with AD and different APOE genotypes. To examine the influence of the APOE epsilon4 allele on cerebral glucose metabolism in a large series of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Eighty-three patients (41 APOE epsilon4 positive and 42 epsilon4 negative) were selected from a pre-existing databank of patients with AD (n > 1,000). The patients were carefully matched for age, age at onset, approximate disease duration, educational level, and overall degree of cognitive impairment. Cerebral [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging was performed in all patients by a standardized protocol. Statistical comparison of patient PET data vs a healthy control population was performed as well as an analysis of differences between groups (SPM99; Wellcome Department of Cognitive Imaging, London, UK). A similar pattern of cerebral hypometabolism was detected in the epsilon4-positive and -negative patient groups vs healthy volunteers in regions typically affected by AD (bilateral temporal, parietal, posterior cingulate, and prefrontal cortical areas). The comparison between epsilon4-positive and -negative patients additionally revealed stronger abnormalities in epsilon4 carriers in parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate cortical regions. A generally similar pattern of cerebral hypometabolism was detected in APOE epsilon4-positive and -negative patients with Alzheimer disease. However, in direct comparison of the two matched groups, the abnormalities in the epsilon4-positive group were demonstrated to be more pronounced."}
{"id": "15629765", "title": "Differentiation of Alzheimer's disease from dementia with Lewy bodies utilizing positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and neuropsychological testing.", "content": "Differentiation of Alzheimer's disease from dementia with Lewy bodies utilizing positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and neuropsychological testing. We compared the relative utility of neuropsychological testing and positron emission tomography (PET) with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) in differentiating Alzheimer's disease (AD) from dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We studied 25 patients with AD, 20 with DLB, and 19 normal elderly controls. There was no difference between patient groups for MMSE, confrontational naming, or verbal learning. The DLB group was significantly more impaired than the AD group for verbal fluency, and the AD group was significantly more impaired than the DLB group for verbal delayed recall. The DLB group had greater difficulty than the AD group on a visual discrimination task that does not require motor functioning, but the difference did not reach significance. Family ratings of motor functioning suggested significantly greater impairment in DLB patients than in AD patients. PET studies revealed significantly lower local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (lCMRglc) for visual cortex (Brodmann areas 17, 18, and 19) in the DLB than the AD group, but no differences for other regions commonly affected in AD, including posterior cingulate, superior parietal lobe, lateral temporal lobe, and the prefrontal region. Motor ratings were significantly correlated with lCMRglc in all areas of cerebral cortex, including Brodmann areas 17, 18, and 19. The results demonstrate a similar profile of cerebral hypometabolism in the two patient groups except in the visual cortex, where the DLB group shows markedly lower lCMRglc than the AD group. Neuropsychological testing also differentiates the groups, and family ratings of motor functioning are as robust as PET in these later stages of the disorders."}
{"id": "15607989", "title": "Metabolic interaction between ApoE genotype and onset age in Alzheimer's disease: implications for brain reserve.", "content": "Metabolic interaction between ApoE genotype and onset age in Alzheimer's disease: implications for brain reserve. Clinically apparent Alzheimer's disease (AD) is thought to result when brain tissue damage exceeds a critical threshold of \"brain reserve\", a process possibly accelerated by the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) E4 allele. The interaction between onset age and ApoE genotype was investigated to assess whether early disease onset (<65 years) in patients carrying the E4 allele is associated with greater cerebral metabolic (regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose utilisation, rCMRgl) reduction. AD patients, divided into early (EOAD; 27 patients) and late onset (LOAD; 65 patients) groups, both groups balanced as to the number of E4 carriers (E4+) and non-carriers (E4-), and matched controls (NC; 35 cases) underwent (18)F-FDG PET ([(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) scanning. SPM'99 software was used to compare AD patients to NC and to perform a two way ANOVA with onset age and ApoE genotype as grouping factors. Results were considered significant at p<0.001, uncorrected. AD patients demonstrated rCMRgl reductions compared to NC, with rCMRgl lower in association cortex and relatively higher in limbic areas in EOAD compared to LOAD subjects. rCMRgl was lower in the anterior cingulate and frontal cortex for E4+ compared to E4- subjects. A significant onset age by ApoE interaction was detected in the hippocampi and basal frontal cortex, with EOAD E4+ subjects having the greatest rCMRgl reduction. The interactive effects of early onset age, possibly reflecting lower brain reserve, and ApoE E4 allele, possibly leading to greater tissue damage, lead to reduced tolerance to the pathophysiological effects of AD in key brain regions."}
{"id": "15582750", "title": "Estrogen use and brain metabolic change in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Estrogen use and brain metabolic change in postmenopausal women. We used positron emission tomography to evaluate cerebral glucose metabolic change in postmenopausal women in a naturalistic observational study. Women estrogen users (n = 11) and non-users (n = 9) were studied at baseline and 2 years later. Analyses focused on glucose metabolism in regions previously reported to decline in older persons at risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD) (posterior cingulate and lateral temporal cortex). Region of interest (ROI) analysis at baseline showed no regional differences between women estrogen users and non users. ROI follow-up analysis revealed that women non-users declined significantly in the posterior cingulate cortex (P= 0.04). Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis confirmed a significant decrease in metabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex among non-users at 2-year follow-up (P = 0.004). In contrast, women estrogen users did not exhibit significant metabolic change in the posterior cingulate. Estrogen use may preserve regional cerebral metabolism and protect against metabolic decline in postmenopausal women, especially in posterior cingulate cortex, the region of the brain found to decline in the earliest stages of AD."}
{"id": "15383742", "title": "[18F]FDG-PET in patients with Alzheimer's disease: marker of disease spread.", "content": "[18F]FDG-PET in patients with Alzheimer's disease: marker of disease spread. It is not known yet whether temporoparietal glucose hypometabolism in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflects disease severity or different subtypes of patients. Twenty-five subjects with mild probable AD [NINCDS-ADRDA criteria; age 65.8 +/- 9.3 years (mean +/- SD); Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) 26.0 +/- 3.3] were investigated. [(18)F]FDG-PET data were analyzed visually with raters blinded to the diagnosis and with a quantitative analysis in the region of interest on individual anatomically normalized PET scans. Thirteen of 25 patients showed temporoparietal hypometabolism on visual inspection (PET+; age 65.7 +/- 10.7), 12 patients had normal FDG-PET results (PET-; age 65.9 +/- 8.0; n.s.). The MMSE and immediate reproduction of the Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-R-I) were 27.7 +/- 1.9 and 31.1 +/- 6.1 in the PET- vs. 24.5 +/- 3.6 (p = 0.012) and 22.0 +/- 7.4 (p = 0.006) in the PET+ group. Immediate and delayed recall in the California Verbal Learning Test and delayed reproduction in the Wechsler Memory Scale were alike. Regression analysis revealed a significant correlation of temporoparietal glucose metabolism with the block span (r = 0.60; p < 0.01) and the WMS-R-I (r = 0.68; p < 0.01) but not with measures of hippocampal function. Temporoparietal glucose metabolism in patients with very mild AD is a sign of disease spread beyond the temporal lobe. This may aid in establishing objective parameters for future therapeutic studies."}
{"id": "15997594", "title": "[Molecular imaging for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Molecular imaging for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. The progressive aging of the population and the difficulty of diagnosing and treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) portends an exponencial increase in the prevalence of this illness. One way to approach this social and health problem is to develop diagnostic techniques that allow us to detect the disease in its pre-clinical stages and apply early treatment that can slow down AD advance. Molecular imaging, in particular that generated by positron emission tomography with 2-fluoro-2 deoxi-D-glucose (PET-FDG) has shown high sensitivity in detecting changes in cerebral metabolic activity in the early stages of AD, and allow other dementias and physiological changes that accompany normal aging to be distinguished from AD."}
{"id": "15876977", "title": "Vascular dementia. Advances in nosology, diagnosis, treatment and prevention.", "content": "Vascular dementia. Advances in nosology, diagnosis, treatment and prevention. Ischemic or hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease (CVD) produces injury of brain regions important for executive function, behavior, and memory leading to decline in cognitive functions and vascular dementia (VaD). Cardiovascular disease may cause VaD from hypoperfusion of susceptible brain areas. CVD may worsen degenerative dementias such as Alzheimer disease (AD). Currently, the global diagnostic category for cognitive impairment of vascular origin is vascular cognitive disorder (VCD). VCD ranges from vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) to VaD. The term VCI is limited to cases of cognitive impairment of vascular etiology, without dementia; VCI is equivalent to vascular mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Risk factors for VaD include age, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, cardiovascular disease (coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease), atrial fibrillation, left ventricular hypertrophy, hyperhomocysteinemia, orthostatic hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, hyperfibrinogenemia, sleep apnea, infection, and high C-reactive protein. Research on biomarkers revealed increased CSF-NFL levels in VaD, whereas CSF-tau was normal. CSF-TNF-alpha, VEGF, and TGF-beta were increased in both AD and VaD. VaD shows low CSF acetylcholinesterase levels. This condition responds to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, confirming the central role of cholinergic deficit in its pathogenesis. Evidence strongly suggests that control of vascular risk factors, in particular hypertension, could prevent VaD."}
{"id": "15738860", "title": "[Awareness of deficits and anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Awareness of deficits and anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease]. This article reviews studies concerning unawareness of deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Unawareness of the deficits associated with dementia has frequently been reported in clinical descriptions of the later stages of the disease. Consistent with the literature, we shall use the expressions impaired awareness, unawareness of deficits, anosognosia, and lack of insight interchangeably. Anosognosia can be defined as an impaired ability to recognize the presence or appreciate the severity of deficits in sensory, perceptual, motor, affective, or cognitive functioning. Unawareness has been operationally defined in a variety of ways. Unawareness can be measured as the discrepancy between the patient's self-report and the report of a natural caregiver or the clinical rating of a health care professional. The reports generally concern with several domains, most often memory domain. Discrepancy between subjective ratings and neuropsychological performance during clinical assessment has also been used to measure anosognosia. Advantages, limits and equivalence of these different methods are discussed. The impact of family burden has to be considered as a systematic methodological bias if the natural caregiver is implicated in the assessment. The psychometric properties of the clinical assessment have also to be discussed. The psychological nature of the discrepancy between patient's self-report and cognitive performances has to be analyzed and the necessity of ecological protocols, longitudinal assessment is discussed. The major results concerning prevalence, nature of anosognosia and the associated disorders are analyzed. In particular, the notion of heterogeneity of anosognosia and the correlates with depression, severity of dementia and executive dysfunction are developed. Prevalence is largely function of methodological choices and conceptual definition of anosognosia. Three major researches are compared and the contrast between their results (prevalence from 23% to 75% in AD) is analyzed. Particularly, the hypotheses about anosognosia play a great role in the findings. At first time of research, anosognosia was considered as a general symptom and so, studies were centered on the unawareness related to only one cognitive function. But the 90's findings suggest that patients with AD have impaired awareness for some types of deficits (affective or cognitive functions) but can more accurately appraise other deficits. Currently anosognosia cannot be considered as a unitary entity. It may be that patients with AD are unaware of some types of deficits, but are aware of others, and that nature and intensity of their anosognosia may change during the course of the dementia. It has been proposed that depression is more common when disease is mild and awareness of deficits is retained, and that depression becomes less common when disease increases and awareness declines. Depression is conceived as a psychological reaction. However, the correlations between anosognosia level and depression scores reveal either weak relationships or no relationships. Alternative hypothesis is that anosognosia is related to overall dementia severity and to memory impairment. However, correlations of unawareness of deficits, i.e. the difference between self-report and relative's -rating, with a measure of dementia and with patient's performance on objective memory tasks did not reveal strong, consistent relationships between degree of anosognosia and severity of dementia or of memory impairment. On the other hand, the best neuropsychological predictors of impaired insight are Trail Making Test or Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, i.e. tests that have been shown to be sensitive to a frontal lobe dysfunction. SPECT measures of regional cerebral blood flow have been used in the study of anosognosia. The main findings are that unawareness in AD is associated with hypoperfusion of the right dorsolateral frontal lobe. Anosognosia may result from the disruption of broader cognitive process that is subsumed by the frontal lobes. The mechanisms of unawareness are not well known and studies are essentially descriptive works and try to give information about pre-valence or clinical associated disorders of anosognosia. Several authors have proposed that unawareness is part of a defensive mechanism that would protect demented patients from depressive feelings. Other authors have proposed that anosognosia may result from dysfunction in specific brain areas. It is suggested that anosognosia in AD may result from greater impairment of a central executive system, which is a metacognitive structure that is involved in planning, cognitive resource allocation, and set shifting. The main problem with those both major hypotheses is their incapacity to explain the heterogeneous impairment of awareness. Other authors speculate that the impaired insight of Alzheimer's disease has several components, psychological and neuropsychological. This view doesn't seem convincing and new components have to be taken in account in order to propose a theoretical framework about anosognosia in AD. Environmental and dispositional components and an interactional view could be interesting. Those possible directions for future research and solutions concerning methodological and conceptual problems are outlined. In particular, a neuro-psycho-social view of unawareness is introduced."}
{"id": "15687960", "title": "Supratentorial functional disturbances in two children with cerebellar cortical dysplasia.", "content": "Supratentorial functional disturbances in two children with cerebellar cortical dysplasia. When evaluating children with mental retardation, subtle cerebral and cerebellar morphologic anomalies are often noted at Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Some, such as cerebellar cortical dysplasia (CCD), have been considered as subtle markers of cerebral dysgenesis. Their functional significance and their effect on brain function, remain unknown. To study supratentorial functional disturbances related to CCD we performed Positron-Emission-Tomography (PET) studies in two children with isolated CCD, in order to investigate the degree of involvement of supratentorial structures. One had developmental delay, motor disturbances and ataxia, and the other one only had mental retardation. PET studies revealed hypoperfusion and hypometabolism within the vermis, thalamus and the right striatum in one case, and hypometabolism in the basal ganglia and cerebellar deep grey nuclei in the other case. Our results could lead to a hypothesis explaining motor disturbances as well as cognitive impairment, and could suggest a pathological functional significance of CCD. Nevertheless, the relationship between these findings and mental retardation needs further investigation."}
{"id": "15651325", "title": "[Measurement of brain function by positron emission tomography--clinical application of PET to neurological disorders].", "content": "[Measurement of brain function by positron emission tomography--clinical application of PET to neurological disorders]. Positron emission tomography has enabled us to measure various fundamental parameters of human brain physiology and chemistry, such as cerebral blood flow, metabolism and synaptic function. Blood flow and oxygen metabolism is important for the understanding of cerebrovascular Disease. Glucose metabolism is useful for the determination of epileptic foci and for the evaluation of tumor malignancy. Measurement of pre- and post-synaptic function is applicable to the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. Imaging analysis of functional neuroanatomy of these parameters are very promising for the early diagnosis of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease. Developmennt of new radiotracers is expected for detection of early specific pathological changes and more previous changes underlying the deterioration of neurochemistry, such as genetic abnormalities."}
{"id": "15623696", "title": "MCI conversion to dementia and the APOE genotype: a prediction study with FDG-PET.", "content": "MCI conversion to dementia and the APOE genotype: a prediction study with FDG-PET. To investigate whether the combination of fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) PET measures with the APOE genotype would improve prediction of the conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer disease (AD). After 1 year, 8 of 37 patients with MCI converted to AD (22%). Differences in baseline regional glucose metabolic rate (rCMRglc) across groups were assessed on a voxel-based basis using a two-factor analysis of variance with outcome (converters [n = 8] vs nonconverters [n = 29]) and APOE genotype (E4 carriers [E4+] [n = 16] vs noncarriers [E4-] [n = 21]) as grouping factors. Results were considered significant at p < 0.05, corrected for multiple comparisons. All converters showed reduced rCMRglc in the inferior parietal cortex (IPC) as compared with the nonconverters. Hypometabolism in AD-typical regions, that is, temporoparietal and posterior cingulate cortex, was found for the E4+ as compared with the E4- patients, with the E4+/converters (n = 5) having additional rCMRglc reductions within frontal areas, such as the anterior cingulate (ACC) and inferior frontal (IFC) cortex. For the whole MCI sample, IPC rCMRglc predicted conversion to AD with 84% overall diagnostic accuracy (p = 0.003). Moreover, ACC and IFC rCMRglc improved prediction for the E4+ group, yielding 100% sensitivity, 90% specificity, and 94% accuracy (p < 0.0005), thus leading to an excellent discrimination. Fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose-PET measures may improve prediction of the conversion to Alzheimer disease, especially in combination with the APOE genotype."}
{"id": "15616176", "title": "One-year change in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "One-year change in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. By using [(18)F]-2-fluoro-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography, the authors studied changes in regional glucose metabolism after a 1-year interval in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Glucose metabolism declined over time in the bilateral precuneus and posterior cingulate gyri and in the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. Glucose metabolism in these regions may be a useful measure of the progression of AD and a valid surrogate outcome measure of clinical drug trials."}
{"id": "15598550", "title": "Hemispheric asymmetries of hypometabolism associated with semantic memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease: a study using positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose-F18.", "content": "Hemispheric asymmetries of hypometabolism associated with semantic memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease: a study using positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose-F18. Considerable disagreement exists about the neuroanatomical basis of conceptual-semantic impairments observed in a subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) at mild to moderate stages of the disease. Several studies of groups of patients have shown correlations between focal hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in left hemispheric areas and measures of verbal semantic memory impairment in AD patients. The question remains, however, whether left hemispheric hypometabolism is sufficient to produce such impairment in the single case and whether nonverbal semantic knowledge is also affected. We used positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose-F18 (FDG), statistical parametric mapping (SPM), and tests of verbal and nonverbal semantic memory in 11 AD patients with a mean score on the Mini-Mental State Examination of 22.6 (+/-2.8). Naming impairment was significantly associated with left hemispheric asymmetry of hypometabolism on a single-case basis. Our correlation analysis showed that metabolism in left anterior temporal, posterior inferior temporal, inferior parietal and medial occipital areas (Brodmann areas: 21/38, 37, 40 and 19) correlated with both verbal and nonverbal semantic performance. We conclude that left hemispheric synaptic dysfunction, as measured by regional glucose hypometabolism, was sufficient to produce semantic impairments in our patients. The majority of areas affected in our patients with semantic impairments were involved in multimodal or supramodal (verbal and nonverbal) semantic knowledge."}
{"id": "15598092", "title": "[Risk factors for cognitive impairment].", "content": "[Risk factors for cognitive impairment]. Cognitive impairment is an invalidating condition and its prevalence increases significantly with age. It is very important to identify the risk factors for cognitive impairment. Aside from age, sex, familiary history and educational level, the other major risk factors (hypertension, hypercolesterolemia, diabetes mellitus and tobacco), known to be associated frequently with different cerebrovascular diseases, might also contribute to degenerative forms of cognitive impairment because they might favour cerebral microvascular alterations with hypoperfusion, demyelinization and ischemic lesions of subcortical white matter. Longitudinal epidemiological studies detected that arterial hypertension, hypercolesterolemia and tobacco are frequently associated with degenerative forms of cognitive impairment. Some studies show there is no relationship between cognitive impairment and diabetes mellitus, while other underline its role; light alcohol drinking might protect against cognitive impairment. Other recently identified risk factors might be hyperhomocysteinemia and high C-reactive protein blood levels because they seem to be associated with cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "15570509", "title": "[Differences in cerebral glucose metabolism between frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Differences in cerebral glucose metabolism between frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease]. To describe differences in cerebral glucose metabolism between frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). 14 patients with FTLD (7 f/7 m, mean age 60.1 years) and 14 patients with AD (7 f/7 m, mean age 59.5 years) were examined. [18F]FDG positron emission tomography (PET) scans were analysed with statistical nonparametric mapping (SnPM) and statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). Significant decreases in glucose metabolism in FTLD compared to AD were detected in the left insula/left inferior frontal gyrus (Brodman area [BA]13, 45 and 47) and in the medial frontal gyrus bilaterally (BA10). A significant decrease in AD compared to FTLD was identified in the right middle temporal gyrus (BA39). Cerebral PET could be a promising tool to discriminate FTLD from AD."}
{"id": "15551110", "title": "[Alzheimer's disease with secondary Parkinson's syndrome. Case report of a patient with dementia and Parkinson's syndrome after long-term occupational exposure to insecticides, herbicides, and pesticides].", "content": "[Alzheimer's disease with secondary Parkinson's syndrome. Case report of a patient with dementia and Parkinson's syndrome after long-term occupational exposure to insecticides, herbicides, and pesticides]. This case report describes long-term occupational exposure to agricultural insecticides, herbicides, and pesticides as possible environmental risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's syndrome in a 59-year-old man. Initially the patient complained about disturbances in concentration, mnestic deficits, and problems finding words. In the further course of the disease, he developed Parkinson's syndrome with predominant hypokinesia and rigor in addition to mild-to-moderate dementia. Low levels of beta-amyloid 1-42 were found in the CSF. Electroencephalography showed left frontotemporal theta waves. Cranial MRI revealed general brain atrophy with a maximum biparietally. In cerebral positron emission tomography, general hypometabolism was found with maxima biparietally and left frontally. The possible differential diagnosis of AD and Parkinson's syndrome is discussed."}
{"id": "15489396", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia: impact of P301L tau mutation on a healthy carrier.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia: impact of P301L tau mutation on a healthy carrier. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second commonest form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease, but its clinical and biological features are less well known. To uncover its earliest signs, we studied the main clinical, neuroimaging, and biochemical findings in an asymptomatic carrier from a three generation FTD family, bearing the P301L pathogenic mutation in the tau gene. Except for selective impairment on the Verbal Fluency Test for letters, all cognitive tests were normal. The brain computed tomography scan was normal, but the brain single photon emission computed tomography and statistical parametric mapping (SPECT-SPM) scan revealed bilateral frontal lobe hypoperfusion. Levels of total tau, 181P-tau, and Abeta1-42 in the cerebrospinal fluid were increased compared with control values. We conclude that detection of these distinctive abnormalities should improve early diagnostic accuracy for FTD and help distinguish it from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15462408", "title": "Comparison of FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Comparison of FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. To investigate regional differences in cerebral glucose metabolism and blood flow of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), we studied 7 subjects with DLB and 20 normal controls using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) and then examined the same 7 subjects and 20 other normal controls with I-123 iodoamphetamine (IMP) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The anatomically standardized images were produced with NEUROSTAT and the regional relative metabolic and perfusional values were calculated. The mean reduction ratios of FDG uptake in the DLB group relative to the mean normal controls in the parietal lobe and occipital lobe were 0.72 and 0.83, respectively, while the corresponding mean reduction ratios of IMP uptake were 0.81 and 0.88, respectively. In the DLB group, parietal FDG uptake was significantly lower than parietal IMP uptake (p < 0.05), occipital FDG uptake was significantly lower than occipital IMP uptake (p < 0.05), and parietal IMP uptake was significantly lower than occipital IMP uptake (p < 0.01), but there was no difference between parietal and occipital FDG uptake. Our findings suggest that parietal metabolism and perfusion are severely affected in DLB patients, though the occipital metabolic and perfusional reduction is thought to be a feature of DLB. FDG-PET is thought to be superior to IMP-SPECT in detecting functional changes in the DLB brain."}
{"id": "15453435", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of vascular dementia].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of vascular dementia]. Vascular dementia is the second cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease. It is a broad term which includes dementia due to: single or multiple infarcts related to large vessel disease, subcortical ischemic pathology linked to small vessel disease, hemorrhages, and hypoperfusion. Furthermore, vascular and Alzheimer lesions often coexist leading to a mixed dementia. The diagnosis should be considered in the presence of dementia, clinical or neuroradiological signs of cerebrovascular disease and a plausible link between the two. Newly identified preventive strategies and encouraging results of recent trials using cholinesterase inhibitors or memantine suggest therapeutic potential."}
{"id": "15380113", "title": "Is major depression a neurologic disorder with psychiatric symptoms?", "content": "Is major depression a neurologic disorder with psychiatric symptoms? In the last decade, multiple investigator groups have identified structural changes of various neuroanatomic structures in patients with idiopathic major depression and bipolar disorders. Using high-resolution MRI of the brain and functional neuroimaging studies (i.e., PET, SPECT), researchers have described decreases in the volume of hippocampal formation, amygdala, entorhinal cortex, various frontal lobe structures, and basal ganglia, in addition to abnormal cerebral blood flow and metabolic activity in these structures as well as in thalamic nuclei. Similar structural and functional changes have been identified in patients with depression associated with a variety of neurologic disorders (i.e., stroke, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, Alzheimer's dementia). In addition, recent data have shown that depression is a risk factor for the development of several neurologic disorders, including epilepsy, stroke, and Parkinson's disease and bears a negative impact on the course and outcome of most neurologic disorders. This article reviews these data and provides evidence that major depressive and bipolar disorders may in fact be neurologic disorders with psychiatric symptoms."}
{"id": "15365793", "title": "Human Kluver-Bucy syndrome following acute subdural haematoma.", "content": "Human Kluver-Bucy syndrome following acute subdural haematoma. We present a rare case of complete human Kluver-Bucy syndrome (KBS) following recovery from transtentorial herniation caused by acute subdural haematoma (ASDH). A 17-year-old right-handed high school boy got into stupor within five minutes after 3-rounds of sparing at boxing. Emergency computed tomographic (CT) scan showed right cerebral hemispheric ASDH, which was evacuated following intentional decompressive craniectomy. After recovery of consciousness, he developed emotional changes (placidity with loss of normal fear and anger), psychic blindness, aberrant sexual behaviour, excessive oral tendencies, increased appetite, and hypermetamorphosis in order of mention, which were observed with waxing and waning from 17th to 28th hospital day. Peri-operative CT scaning and magnetic resonance imaging showed lesions of the right temporal lobe and right-dominant orbitofrontal regions including bilateral rectal and medial orbital gyri, and the intact left temporal lobe. Two pathogeneses can be thought of and the whole picture of KBS following ASDH can arise even though one (left in this case) temporal lobe is preserved, 1) in which associated orbitofrontal lesions of the frontal lobes may correlate with occurrence of KBS, or 2) cerebral blood hypoperfusion of both temporal lobes due to increased intracranial pressure and/or compression of both posterior cerebral arteries at the edge of the tentorium cerebelli occurs."}
{"id": "15324364", "title": "MRI and CSF studies in the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "MRI and CSF studies in the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. The main goal of our studies has been to use MRI, FDG-PET, and CSF biomarkers to identify in cognitively normal elderly (NL) subjects and in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), the earliest clinically detectable evidence for brain changes due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). A second goal has been to describe the cross-sectional and longitudinal interrelationships amongst anatomical, CSF and cognition measures in these patient groups. It is now well known that MRI-determined hippocampal atrophy predicts the conversion from MCI to AD. In our summarized studies, we show that the conversion of NL subjects to MCI can also be predicted by reduced entorhinal cortex (EC) glucose metabolism, and by the rate of medial temporal lobe atrophy as determined by a semi-automated regional boundary shift analysis (BSA-R). However, whilst atrophy rates are predictive under research conditions, they are not specific for AD and cannot be used as primary evidence for AD. Consequently, we will also review our effort to improve the diagnostic specificity by evaluating the use of CSF biomarkers and to evaluate their performance in combination with neuroimaging. Neuropathology studies of normal ageing and MCI identify the hippocampal formation as an early locus of neuronal damage, tau protein pathology, elevated isoprostane levels, and deposition of amyloid beta 1-42 (Abeta42). Many CSF studies of MCI and AD report elevated T-tau levels (a marker of neuronal damage) and reduced Abeta42 levels (possibly due to increased plaque sequestration). However, CSF T-tau and Abeta42 level elevations may not be specific to AD. Elevated isoprostane levels are also reported in AD and MCI but these too are not specific for AD. Importantly, it has been recently observed that CSF levels of P-tau, tau hyperphosphorylated at threonine 231 (P-tau231) are uniquely elevated in AD and elevations found in MCI are useful in predicting the conversion to AD. In our current MCI studies, we are examining the hypothesis that elevations in P-tau231 are accurate and specific indicators of AD-related changes in brain and cognition. In cross-section and longitudinally, our results show that evaluations of the P-tau231 level are highly correlated with reductions in the MRI hippocampal volume and by using CSF and MRI measures together one improves the separation of NL and MCI. The data suggests that by combining MRI and CSF measures, an early (sensitive) and more specific diagnosis of AD is at hand. Numerous studies show that neither T-tau nor P-tauX (X refers to all hyper-phosphorylation site assays) levels are sensitive to the longitudinal progression of AD. The explanation for the failure to observe longitudinal changes is not known. One possibility is that brain-derived proteins are diluted in the CSF compartment. We recently used MRI to estimate ventricular CSF volume and demonstrated that an MRI-based adjustment for CSF volume dilution enables detection of a diagnostically useful longitudinal P-tau231 elevation. Curiously, our most recent data show that the CSF isoprostane level does show significant longitudinal elevations in MCI in the absence of dilution correction. In summary, we conclude that the combined use of MRI and CSF incrementally contributes to the early diagnosis of AD and to monitor the course of AD. The interim results also suggest that a panel of CSF biomarkers can provide measures both sensitive to longitudinal change as well as measures that lend specificity to the AD diagnosis."}
{"id": "15312816", "title": "Association of elevated phospho-tau levels with Alzheimer-typical 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography findings in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Association of elevated phospho-tau levels with Alzheimer-typical 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography findings in patients with mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment is considered to be a transitional stage between normal aging and dementia. Phosphorylated tau protein in cerebrospinal fluid and even more decrements of cerebral glucose metabolism in parietal, temporal, or cingulate regions have shown favorable specificity for the diagnosis of Alzheimer dementia and could be useful supplementary tools to determine Alzheimer pathology in early stages. We measured cerebrospinal fluid tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 protein, cerebrospinal fluid total tau, and cerebral glucose metabolism using 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography in 16 patients with mild cognitive impairment and age-matched control subjects. Alzheimer-typical patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism were significantly related to elevated phosphorylated tau levels (p =.009) but not to elevated total tau levels. In six of seven mild cognitive impairment patients with increased phosphorylated tau concentrations, Alzheimer disease-typical positron emission tomography patterns were found. Phosphorylated tau measurement separated patients with and without Alzheimer disease-typical positron emission tomography findings with a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 88.9%. Unlike total tau levels, elevated phosphorylated tau levels were strictly related to Alzheimer-typical patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism in mild cognitive impairment patients. The results can be interpreted as validation of phosphorylated tau measurements for detecting Alzheimer disease in mild cognitive impairment patients."}
{"id": "15312279", "title": "Functional imaging in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Functional imaging in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Functional imaging modalities (positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and functional magnetic resonance) allow aspects of regional cerebral function to be evaluated in various neuropsychiatric disorders. This review will summarize the use of such techniques in current imaging studies involving Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, with respect to assessing regional changes, using them in differential diagnosis, and monitoring disease progression and treatment effects."}
{"id": "15277616", "title": "White matter lesions impair frontal lobe function regardless of their location.", "content": "White matter lesions impair frontal lobe function regardless of their location. To analyze the effect of white matter lesions in different brain regions on regional cortical glucose metabolism, regional cortical atrophy, and cognitive function in a sample with a broad range of cerebrovascular disease and cognitive function. Subjects (n = 78) were recruited for a study of subcortical ischemic vascular disease (SIVD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) contributions to dementia. A new method was developed to define volumes of interest from high-resolution three-dimensional T1-weighted MR images. Volumetric measures of MRI segmented white matter signal hyperintensities (WMH) in five different brain regions were related to regional PET glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) in cerebral cortex, MRI measures of regional cortical atrophy, and neuropsychological assessment of executive and memory function. WMH was significantly higher in the prefrontal region compared to the other brain regions. In all subjects, higher frontal and parietal WMH were associated with reduced frontal rCMRglc, whereas occipitotemporal WMH was only marginally associated with frontal rCMRglc. These associations were stronger and more widely distributed in nondemented subjects where reduced frontal rCMRglc was correlated with WMH for all regions measured. In contrast, there was no relationship between WMH in any brain region and rCMRglc in either parietal or occipitotemporal regions. WMHs in all brain regions were associated with low executive scores in nondemented subjects. The frontal lobes are most severely affected by SIVD. WMHs are more abundant in the frontal region. Regardless of where in the brain these WMHs are located, they are associated with frontal hypometabolism and executive dysfunction."}
{"id": "15258221", "title": "Subacute dementia and imaging correlates in a case of Fahr's disease.", "content": "Subacute dementia and imaging correlates in a case of Fahr's disease. We report a case of idiopathic bilateral basal ganglia calcinosis, or Fahr's disease (FD) in a 50 year old patient who developed rapidly progressive behavioural abnormalities and severe neuropsychological impairments, but no movement disorder. Neuropsychological deficits included a severe dysexecutive syndrome, anterograde amnesia, and attentional impairment. Neuropsychiatric features comprised apathy with intermittent disinhibition, anxiety, irritability, frequent mood changes, ritualistic and antisocial behaviour, and psychosis. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography showed a massive reduction of glucose metabolism in the basal ganglia and the frontal brain. The observed abnormalities possibly result from a disruption of frontostriatal circuits, presumably at the basal ganglia level. This case indicates that FD may cause exclusively behavioural alterations and that the associated hypometabolism in certain frontal areas is closely related to the clinical picture."}
{"id": "15249822", "title": "Acute bilateral basal ganglia lesions in patients with diabetic uremia: an FDG-PET study.", "content": "Acute bilateral basal ganglia lesions in patients with diabetic uremia: an FDG-PET study. Head CT and MRI show characteristic changes in the syndrome of acute bilateral basal ganglia lesions in patients with diabetic uremia. However, they do not provide further insight into the underlying pathophysiology. To further clarify the biologic mechanism of the syndrome, F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) was used in 2 patients. PET studies were performed in 2 diabetic uremic patients with acute movement disorders. The cerebral glucose metabolic rates in these 2 patients were compared with 11 normal age-matched controls. The images were further analyzed with statistical parametric mapping to identify regions of significant metabolic abnormality. The cases showed markedly reduced glucose metabolism in the bilateral basal ganglia, especially in the bilateral putamens, where the glucose uptake was nearly absent. FDG-PET correlates better with the clinical conditions and provides more pathophysiological information than head CT or MRI scans in bilateral basal ganglia lesions in patients with diabetic uremia. We propose that acute exacerbation of a long-term glucose utilization failure in the basal ganglia cells produced these lesions."}
{"id": "15241294", "title": "What is the rationale for new treatment strategies in Alzheimer's disease?", "content": "What is the rationale for new treatment strategies in Alzheimer's disease? Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the abnormal extracellular accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) into neuritic plaques and the intraneuronal aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau to form neurofibrillary tangles. These molecular events are implicated in the selective damage to neural systems critical for the brain functions that are impaired in AD. Impairment of cholinergic neurotransmission may be an important factor underlying the defects in cognition and memory that characterize AD. Cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors, such as donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine, cause symptomatic improvement by inhibiting the breakdown of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to increase its synaptic availability and, in the case of galantamine, by also allosterically potentiating nicotinic cholinergic receptors. Other agents, including vitamin E, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and statins, have shown some benefit in epidemiological studies and clinical trials although compelling evidence of their efficacy is lacking. Memantine, shown to cause cognitive and functional improvement, is not an ChE inhibitor and does not interact with marketed ChE inhibitors. While the mechanism of action of memantine in AD is not known, the principal pharmacologic actions at therapeutic dose are inhibition of ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors, specifically N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), 5-HT3, and nicotinic receptors. Like other NMDA antagonists, memantine causes behavioral activation associated with enhanced cerebral glucose utilization. Studies have shown that memantine can reverse the decreased metabolic activity associated with AD, possibly accounting for its beneficial effects on cognition and global functioning. Memantine also has neuroprotective properties and can inhibit Abeta-induced neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "15237081", "title": "Increased activation of anterior paralimbic and executive cortex from waking to rapid eye movement sleep in depression.", "content": "Increased activation of anterior paralimbic and executive cortex from waking to rapid eye movement sleep in depression. Depression is associated with sleep disturbances, including alterations in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, that may relate to the neurobiology of the disorder. Given that REM sleep activates limbic and anterior paralimbic cortex and that depressed patients demonstrate increases in electroencephalographic sleep measures of REM, we hypothesized greater activation of these structures during waking to REM sleep in depressed patients. Subjects completed electroencephalographic sleep and regional cerebral glucose metabolism assessments during both waking and REM sleep using [(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography. Patients and healthy subjects recruited from the general community to participate in a research study of depression at an academic medical center. Patients Twenty-four unmedicated patients who met the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV criteria for current major depression and who had a score of 15 or higher on a 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression; 14 medically healthy subjects of comparable age and sex who were free of mental disorders. Electroencephalographic sleep, semiquantitative and relative regional cerebral metabolism during waking and REM sleep. Depressed patients showed greater REM sleep percentages. While both healthy and depressed patients activated anterior paralimbic structures from waking to REM sleep, the spatial extent of this activation was greater in the depressed patients. Additionally, depressed patients showed greater activation in bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal, left premotor, primary sensorimotor, and left parietal cortices, as well as in the midbrain reticular formation. Increased anterior paralimbic activation from waking to REM sleep may be related to affective dysregulation in depressed patients. Increased activation of executive cortex may be related to a cognitive dysregulation. These results suggest that altered function of limbic/anterior paralimbic and prefrontal circuits in depression is accentuated during the REM sleep state. The characteristic sleep disturbances of depression may reflect this dysregulation."}
{"id": "15212830", "title": "Cerebral metabolic patterns at early stages of frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia. A PET study.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic patterns at early stages of frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia. A PET study. To determine the patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and semantic dementia (SD). 25 patients with mild FTD and 9 patients with mild SD as well as 15 healthy age-matched control subjects underwent 18F-FDG- positron emission tomography. Patient scans were compared with control scans using SPM-99. As compared with healthy control subjects patients with FTD showed an extensive symmetrical hypometabolism of the frontal lobes (height threshold P <0.01) which spared the motor cortex. Patients with SD showed a hypometabolism in the whole left temporal lobe and in the right temporal pole. In the clinical syndromes of FTD and SD two distinct patterns of cerebral metabolism were identified. FTD was associated with frontal hypometabolism, whereas in SD cerebral glucose metabolism was exclusively reduced in the temporal lobes. Our findings are consistent with the notion that FTD and SD begin as strictly lobar neuronal degenerations and that a spread of pathological changes is not seen until more advanced stages."}
{"id": "15178938", "title": "Familial presenile dementia with bitemporal atrophy.", "content": "Familial presenile dementia with bitemporal atrophy. This study describes the clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and genetic characteristics in two generations of a Swedish family affected by presenile dementia. The pedigree includes 5 cases (mother and 4 of 5 children) of progressive dementia with onset between 54 and 62 years. The clinical picture is characterized by insidious onset and progressive decline in episodic memory without spatial impairment or dyspraxia, followed by changes in personality and behaviour, with signs of disinhibition, irritability, impulsivity and loss of social awareness. Three siblings, examined after 10 years of duration, showed moderate language deficits but preserved spatial function and praxis. CT and MRI showed progressive bilateral temporal atrophy and moderate frontal white matter changes. Regional cerebral blood flow measurements showed hypoperfusion in temporal areas bilaterally. Quantitative EEG was normal within 5 years after symptom onset and thereafter showed a moderate increase in relative theta power. Sequencing of the tau gene (chromosome 17) revealed the previously described R406W mutation in exon 13 as a likely cause of the disease. This mutation was identified in all affected cases. The clinical picture of this family shows striking similarities not only to frontotemporal dementia but also to Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15172055", "title": "Combined diffusion-weighted and spectroscopic MR imaging in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Combined diffusion-weighted and spectroscopic MR imaging in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. A 49-year-old woman presented with progressive dementia. Diffusion-weighted MR images showed abnormalities in the cerebral cortex as well as the putamen and caudate head bilaterally. MR spectroscopic imaging revealed marked asymmetric decrease of normal metabolites in the right basal ganglia, with concordant hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging is more sensitive to cortical involvement in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, and MR spectroscopy may yield evidence of asymmetric involvement. Combined functional and metabolic MR imaging may be useful in studying CJD."}
{"id": "15164821", "title": "Quantitative electroencephalography in frontotemporal dementia with methylphenidate response: a case study.", "content": "Quantitative electroencephalography in frontotemporal dementia with methylphenidate response: a case study. Frontotemporal dementia is an underdiagnosed illness with predominant behavioral and executive manifestations. Historically, diagnosis has been based on a combination of clinical history, neuropsychological testing, and brain imaging. No effective treatment currently exists for this disorder. A case is presented using quantitative EEG with methylphenidate challenge correlated with SPECT. The patient underwent neuropsychological testing, a SPECT brain study, and a quantitative EEG, which was repeated after methylphenidate administration. SPECT was significant for hypoperfusion to the bilateral frontotemporal regions, with left-sided hypoperfusion greater than homologous right as demonstrated by LORETA analysis. QEEG correlated with SPECT, and demonstrated profound left greater than right bi-frontotemporal slowing, which normalized partially after methylphenidate administration. The patient has remained on methylphenidate as an outpatient, and has had significant behavioral improvement. Quantitative EEG may provide both diagnostic and therapeutic data with regard to frontotemporal dementia. Further studies of methylphenidate in this population are needed to confirm these data."}
{"id": "15118552", "title": "[Brain substrates of episodic memory disorders in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Brain substrates of episodic memory disorders in Alzheimer's disease]. Resting state PET measurement is useful to unravel brain regions whose dysfunction is responsible for impairment of episodic memory in Alzheimer's disease. First, the consistent hypometabolism of posterior cingulate cortex, temporo-parietal cortex and frontal cortex contrasts with the frequent lack of hippocampal hypometabolism, although it is first to be concerned by neurofibrillary tangles. Several hypotheses are proposed to explain this paradoxical result. Second, the correlative approach (correlations between memory performances and metabolic values on a voxel basis) shows that dysfunction of the hippocampal region is responsible for the earliest deficits of episodic memory, and then suggests the recruitment of neocortical temporal areas normally involved in semantic memory, perhaps as a form of a compensatory mechanism. When applied to the study of Mild Cognitive Impairment, this approach is also very fruitful."}
{"id": "15114201", "title": "Effects of subanesthetic ketamine on regional cerebral glucose metabolism in humans.", "content": "Effects of subanesthetic ketamine on regional cerebral glucose metabolism in humans. The authors have recently shown with positron emission tomography that subanesthetic doses of racemic ketamine increase cerebral blood flow but do not affect oxygen consumption significantly. In this study, the authors wanted to assess the effects of racemic ketamine on regional glucose metabolic rate (rGMR) in similar conditions to establish whether ketamine truly induces disturbed coupling between cerebral blood flow and metabolism. 18F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose was used as a positron emission tomography tracer to quantify rGMR on 12 brain regions of interest of nine healthy male volunteers at baseline and during a 300-ng/ml ketamine target concentration level. In addition, voxel-based analysis was performed for the relative changes in rGMR using statistical parametric mapping. The mean +/- SD measured ketamine serum concentration was 326.4+/-86.3 ng/ml. The mean arterial pressure was slightly increased (maximally by 16.4%) during ketamine infusion (P < 0.001). Ketamine increased absolute rGMR significantly in most regions of interest studied. The greatest increases were detected in the thalamus (14.6+/-15.9%; P = 0.029) and in the frontal (13.6+/-13.1%; P = 0.011) and parietal cortices (13.1+/-11.2%; P = 0.007). Absolute rGMR was not decreased anywhere in the brain. The voxel-based analysis revealed relative rGMR increases in the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. Global increases in rGMR seem to parallel ketamine-induced increases in cerebral blood flow detected in the authors' earlier study. Therefore, ketamine-induced disturbance of coupling between cerebral blood flow and metabolism is highly unlikely. The previously observed decrease in oxygen extraction fraction may be due to nonoxidative glucose metabolism during ketamine-induced increase in glutamate release."}
{"id": "15110005", "title": "Activation in the premotor cortex during mental calculation in patients with Alzheimer's disease: relevance of reduction in posterior cingulate metabolism.", "content": "Activation in the premotor cortex during mental calculation in patients with Alzheimer's disease: relevance of reduction in posterior cingulate metabolism. In vivo brain imaging of people with Alzheimer's disease (AD) has suggested the presence of functional disintegration in the posterior-anterior brain network from the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) to the prefrontal cortex. To investigate the relationship between the baseline posteromedial metabolism and prefrontal neural activity during cognitomnemonic tasks in AD patients, we measured both glucose metabolism at baseline and cerebral blood flow (CBF) during the execution of mental calculation tasks (serial number subtraction) in 10 early-stage AD patients and six healthy subjects. The present study employed positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and H(2)(15)O. Group comparison using the region-of-interest (ROI) method and voxel-based statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) showed significant reduction in glucose metabolism in the PCC of the AD group. The PCC metabolism in the AD group was negatively correlated with scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination and with correct responses to the arithmetic task. During the arithmetic task, regional CBF increased significantly in the left parietal and bilateral prefrontal cortices in the normal group, whereas the bilateral premotor cortices were significantly activated in the AD group. Regression analysis showed a significant inverse correlation between the premotor activation and the baseline PCC metabolism in the AD group. These results suggest that the premotor cortex plays a compensatory role in executing mental calculations in AD patients with reduced posteromedial functions, which might reflect the dynamic aspect of the pathophysiology of early AD."}
{"id": "15093144", "title": "Number processing and basal ganglia dysfunction: a single case study.", "content": "Number processing and basal ganglia dysfunction: a single case study. Numerical processing has never been investigated in a case of Fahr's disease (FD) and only rarely in cases of basal ganglia dysfunction. The study describes the cognitive decline of a pre-morbidly high-functioning patient (medical doctor) affected by FD and his difficulties in number processing. A MRI scan revealed bilateral calcifications in the basal ganglia and a brain PET showed a massive reduction of glucose metabolism in the basal ganglia and both frontal lobes, but no other brain abnormalities. The patient's cognitive deficits included impairments in problem solving, in cognitive set shifting and in mental flexibility, as well as in verbal memory. These deficits are attributed to the disruption of the dorsolateral prefrontal circuit involving the basal ganglia. In number processing, the patient showed a severe deficit in the retrieval of multiplication facts, deficits in all tasks of numerical problem solving and in the execution of complex procedures. Importantly, he also showed a dense deficit in conceptual knowledge, which concerned all test conditions and all operations. The findings confirm the predictions of the triple code model in so far, as a disruption of cortico-subcortical loops involving the basal-ganglia may lead to specific deficits in fact retrieval. However, no verbal deficit, as assumed in the triple code model and reported in similar cases, could be observed. The present findings further add to current knowledge on numerical processing, showing how fronto-executive dysfunction may disrupt conceptual understanding of arithmetic. This study shows that not only parietal lesions may lead to severe deficits in conceptual understanding, but that basal ganglia lesions leading to frontal dysfunction may have a devastating effect."}
{"id": "15084791", "title": "Region-specific decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with frontotemporal dementia: a prospective 18F-FDG-PET study.", "content": "Region-specific decline of cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with frontotemporal dementia: a prospective 18F-FDG-PET study. The aim of this study was to examine the pattern of glucose uptake and the changes over time of metabolic deficits in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). 10 patients who had received the clinical diagnosis of FTD underwent positron emission tomography scanning at the time of their first examination (baseline) and at follow-up (after 17.1 +/- 6.0 months). For statistical analysis, we used the SPM 99 software. First, we compared the data of the patients at baseline with an age-matched healthy control group. Second, we compared glucose uptake at follow-up with baseline measurements. Compared with normal controls, FTD patients showed significant metabolic deficits primarily in frontal cortical areas, but also in the caudate nuclei and the thalami. At follow-up, a significant progression of metabolic deficit was exclusively observed in the orbitofrontal parts of the frontal lobe and in the subcortical structures. These findings demonstrate that the clinical progression in patients with FTD is accompanied by a region-specific decline in cerebral glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "15070770", "title": "Default-mode network activity distinguishes Alzheimer's disease from healthy aging: evidence from functional MRI.", "content": "Default-mode network activity distinguishes Alzheimer's disease from healthy aging: evidence from functional MRI. Recent functional imaging studies have revealed coactivation in a distributed network of cortical regions that characterizes the resting state, or default mode, of the human brain. Among the brain regions implicated in this network, several, including the posterior cingulate cortex and inferior parietal lobes, have also shown decreased metabolism early in the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We reasoned that default-mode network activity might therefore be abnormal in AD. To test this hypothesis, we used independent component analysis to isolate the network in a group of 13 subjects with mild AD and in a group of 13 age-matched elderly controls as they performed a simple sensory-motor processing task. Three important findings are reported. Prominent coactivation of the hippocampus, detected in all groups, suggests that the default-mode network is closely involved with episodic memory processing. The AD group showed decreased resting-state activity in the posterior cingulate and hippocampus, suggesting that disrupted connectivity between these two regions accounts for the posterior cingulate hypometabolism commonly detected in positron emission tomography studies of early AD. Finally, a goodness-of-fit analysis applied at the individual subject level suggests that activity in the default-mode network may ultimately prove a sensitive and specific biomarker for incipient AD."}
{"id": "15061823", "title": "Cerebral bloodflow and oxygen metabolism in borderzone and territorial infarcts due to symptomatic carotid artery occlusion.", "content": "Cerebral bloodflow and oxygen metabolism in borderzone and territorial infarcts due to symptomatic carotid artery occlusion. It remains controversial whether borderzone infarcts are due to compromised cerebral perfusion and whether territorial infarcts are caused by artery-to-artery emboli in case of occlusion of the internal carotid artery. The present positron emission tomography study compares with normal controls, the average regional cerebral bloodflow (rCBF), regional oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF) and regional cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (rCMRO(2)) in the infarct area, the peri-infarct zone, the remaining homolateral hemisphere and in the contralateral hemisphere of 10 patients with borderzone and 17 patients with territorial infarcts, due to internal carotid artery occlusion by atherosclerosis and by cervical dissection. The steady-state technique with oxygen-15 was used. A nearly significant increase of rOEF with lowered rCBF and rCMRO(2) was observed in the peri-infarct zone of patients with territorial infarcts. In patients with borderzone infarcts rCMRO(2) was decreased in the peri-infarct zone, in the remaining homolateral hemisphere and in the contralateral hemisphere without changes in rCBF and rOEF. The present study finds no arguments that impaired cerebral perfusion is a more frequent cause of borderzone than of territorial infarcts."}
{"id": "15033184", "title": "Age and ApoE genotype interaction in Alzheimer's disease: an FDG-PET study.", "content": "Age and ApoE genotype interaction in Alzheimer's disease: an FDG-PET study. Previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies with fluorodeoxglucose (FDG) as tracer in healthy elders showed that the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene is disruptive to cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglu), possibly through the interaction with the aging process. The present study was aimed at assessing whether this interaction occurs in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Eight-six AD patients, including 40 ApoE4 carriers and 46 non-carriers, underwent (18)F-FDG PET scanning at rest. ApoE groups were comparable for age, gender, age at onset and disease duration. SPM'99 was used to assess rCMRGlu correlations with age, differences between ApoE groups and ApoE by age interaction, correcting for disease severity. Results were reported at P<0.001, uncorrected. Correlations between age and rCMRGlu confirmed the well-known negative relationship for both groups. Lower rCMRGlu was found within the frontal and cingulate areas for ApoE4 carriers as compared with the non-carriers. Additionally, a significant ApoE by age interaction was detected in the frontal and anterior cingulate cortex, with the ApoE4 carriers having a steeper regression slope with respect to the non-carriers. These results indicate that age-related regional rCMRglu decreases within the frontal and anterior cingulate areas may be more severe in AD patients carrying the ApoE4 allele."}
{"id": "15019393", "title": "Neuro-ophthalmic findings in the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuro-ophthalmic findings in the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease. To describe the clinical features of a visual variant Alzheimer's disease, a disorder that might be seen by the ophthalmologist with visual symptoms and signs. Retrospective case series. Eight patients with Alzheimer's disease presenting with predominantly visual complaints. A retrospective review of patients at a tertiary care academic center seen by the authors from 1999 to 2001 with Alzheimer's disease and predominantly visual complaints. Eight patients with the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease were reviewed. All had seen eye care providers before referral to the neuro-ophthalmology clinic for visual complaints but without a diagnosis. Four patients had homonymous visual field loss, and two had presumed cortical visual impairment. Neuroimaging showed either normal brain (1 patient) or atrophy of the parietal or occipital areas but no structural lesions (7 patients). Fluoro-18-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans were performed in five of the cases, and all showed hypoperfusion in the parietooccipital areas. Neuropsychologic testing revealed visuospatial deficits in all 5 patients tested. Visual symptoms might be the presenting (or rarely only) manifestation of Alzheimer's disease. Clinicians should be aware of the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease. Neuropsychological testing and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provide supporting evidence for the diagnosis. Positron emission tomography scans might be helpful in selected cases, especially those with a normal MRI."}
{"id": "15017012", "title": "Positron emission tomography examination of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in young CADASIL patients.", "content": "Positron emission tomography examination of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in young CADASIL patients. CADASIL causes repeated ischemic strokes leading to subcortical vascular dementia. The purpose of this study was to assess whether cerebral blood flow (CBF) and regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (rCMR(gluc)) in CADASIL patients are affected in early adulthood. CBF and rCMR(gluc) were examined with positron emission tomography in correlation with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 14 adult (19 to 41 years) CADASIL patients with the Notch3 R133C mutation. Seven patients had experienced transient ischemic attack and 3 had experienced > or =1 strokes. The mean CBF in the CADASIL patients was significantly lower in both frontal (P=0.019) and occipital (P=0.009) white matter (WM) than those in the controls. CBF decreased significantly with increased severity of the disease. The patients had lower mean rCMR(gluc) values than the controls, although differences were not statistically significant. Sum scores of semiquantitative MRI rating scale (Scheltens) correlated significantly with WM CBF but not with rCMR(gluc). In CADASIL, there is an early and significant decrease in the CBF of WM associated with simultaneous MRI changes. These are obviously caused by the arteriopathy in long penetrating arteries and indicate early tissue damage, also expressed as impaired rCMR(gluc) in the WM."}
{"id": "15013462", "title": "Decompressive hemicraniectomy in a new cat model. Methodological description of the PET study protocol.", "content": "Decompressive hemicraniectomy in a new cat model. Methodological description of the PET study protocol. Positron emission tomography (PET) is increasingly used to quantify regional hemodynamic and metabolic changes in different animal models. Most of these (multitracer) studies provided important early data on already functionally altered brain tissue, indicating selective vulnerability by a large variability in the functional blood flow threshold of individual neurons. To fill the gap between experimental studies at early time points and rather late clinical studies at well-defined but singular time points, we repeatedly measured cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), oxygen extraction rate and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) in three cats before and up to 28 h after decompressive hemicraniectomy on normal brain tissue. Decompressive hemicraniectomy in the cat decreased CBF, and to a lesser extent CMRO2 and CMRglc 2 h after surgical intervention in normal brain tissue that last for at least 1 day. CBF significantly decreased (p < 0.01) and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) (p < 0.05) significantly increased. CMRO2 and CMRglc decreased only in regions with most severe CBF reduction. These effects remained for at least a day irrespective of corrective sustaining cranioplasty. The method and data analysis is decreased and discussed in detail in the presented protocol. In conclusion, serial positron emission tomography studies are best suited to repeatedly and non-invasively demonstrate circulatory and biochemical changes by surgical interventions in normal brain tissue for at least one day. The transition of normal brain tissue into misery-perfused or non-viable regions can be followed over time. Such state-of-the-art imaging modalities as sequential high-resolution positron emission tomography provide insight into the dynamic of regional pathophysiology and may thus further justify the development of rational therapeutic strategies for decompressive hemicraniectomy, especially for disease with focal disturbances in cerebral blood flow."}
{"id": "15009230", "title": "Epilepsy duration, febrile seizures, and cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Epilepsy duration, febrile seizures, and cerebral glucose metabolism. Studies using magnetic resonance imaging have shown that reduced hippocampal volume is associated with a history of febrile seizures, the duration of epilepsy, and the number of generalized tonic-clonic seizures. It is uncertain whether these factors have the same influence on functional as on structural measures of the integrity of the epileptogenic zone. We used positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorine 18 2-deoxyglucose to study 91 patients with temporal lobe seizure foci localized by ictal video-EEG. PET was performed in the awake interictal resting state with ears plugged and eyes patched. We recorded surface EEG during injection (5 mCi) and the 30-min uptake period. We used a standard template to analyze PET scans. A significant negative relation was found between the duration of epilepsy and hippocampal glucose metabolism ipsilateral to the epileptic focus. Patients with a history of either any febrile seizures, or complex, or prolonged febrile seizures, did not have greater hypometabolism ipsilateral to the epileptic focus than did patients without a febrile seizure history. We found no effect of generalized tonic-clonic seizure history. Longer epilepsy duration is associated with greater hypometabolism, suggesting that epilepsy is a progressive disease."}
{"id": "15001677", "title": "Functional interactions of the entorhinal cortex: an 18F-FDG PET study on normal aging and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Functional interactions of the entorhinal cortex: an 18F-FDG PET study on normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a brain disorder characterized by reduced cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRgl) in several cortical regions. Evidence from neuropathology studies, animal models of AD, and (18)F-FDG PET studies on cognitive impairment suggest that disrupted connections with the entorhinal cortex (EC) could be implicated in the emergence of the cortical hypometabolism. This (18)F-FDG PET study assessed the functional interactions-that is, the intercorrelations between the EC and the whole brain in vivo-in normal aging and AD. Eighty-seven consecutive clinical AD patients underwent (18)F-FDG PET scanning at rest. Thirty-five sex- and age-matched healthy elderly subjects were studied as controls (NC). A voxel-based correlation analysis was performed with statistical parametric mapping to assess significant correlations between relative CMRgl (rCMRgl) in the EC and the rest of the brain, for NC and AD patients. Results were considered significant at P < 0.001. The pattern of EC functional interactions varies between normal aging and AD patients. In NC, the left and right EC were bilaterally correlated with several cortical and limbic regions, in accord with the major anatomic pathways identified in nonhuman primates. Alternatively, in AD patients, the EC correlations with the contralateral hemisphere were entirely lost, whereas those within the ipsilateral hemisphere were preserved only with the inferior temporooccipital (T-O) areas. This (18)F-FDG PET correlation study indicates that AD-related processes lead to an altered functional relationship between the EC and several cortical and limbic regions, with respect to normal aging. Our results suggest that the assessment of coupled rCMRgl reductions between the EC and the ipsilateral T-O cortex, besides the typical pattern of cortical reduction, could increase (18)F-FDG PET diagnostic sensitivity and further motivate its inclusion in the clinical assessment of AD."}
{"id": "14999034", "title": "Insulin resistance, affective disorders, and Alzheimer's disease: review and hypothesis.", "content": "Insulin resistance, affective disorders, and Alzheimer's disease: review and hypothesis. Affective disorders (ad) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been associated for almost a century, and various neurophysiologic factors have been implicated as common biologic markers. Yet, links between ad and AD still await elucidation. We propose that insulin resistance (IR) is one of the missing links between ad and AD. IR with hyperinsulinemia and subsequent impairment of glucose metabolism especially in ad patients may promote neurodegeneration and facilitate the onset of AD. According to our hypothesis, IR may persist even into ad remission in some patients. Persistent regional hypometabolism and vascular changes resulting from long-standing IR may lead to currently irreversible structural changes. Evidence in support of the hypothesis is reviewed and clinical implications suggested."}
{"id": "14991808", "title": "Imaging brain amyloid in Alzheimer's disease with Pittsburgh Compound-B.", "content": "Imaging brain amyloid in Alzheimer's disease with Pittsburgh Compound-B. This report describes the first human study of a novel amyloid-imaging positron emission tomography (PET) tracer, termed Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB), in 16 patients with diagnosed mild AD and 9 controls. Compared with controls, AD patients typically showed marked retention of PIB in areas of association cortex known to contain large amounts of amyloid deposits in AD. In the AD patient group, PIB retention was increased most prominently in frontal cortex (1.94-fold, p = 0.0001). Large increases also were observed in parietal (1.71-fold, p = 0.0002), temporal (1.52-fold, p = 0.002), and occipital (1.54-fold, p = 0.002) cortex and the striatum (1.76-fold, p = 0.0001). PIB retention was equivalent in AD patients and controls in areas known to be relatively unaffected by amyloid deposition (such as subcortical white matter, pons, and cerebellum). Studies in three young (21 years) and six older healthy controls (69.5 +/- 11 years) showed low PIB retention in cortical areas and no significant group differences between young and older controls. In cortical areas, PIB retention correlated inversely with cerebral glucose metabolism determined with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose. This relationship was most robust in the parietal cortex (r = -0.72; p = 0.0001). The results suggest that PET imaging with the novel tracer, PIB, can provide quantitative information on amyloid deposits in living subjects."}
{"id": "14966149", "title": "Brain metabolic decreases related to the dose of the ApoE e4 allele in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain metabolic decreases related to the dose of the ApoE e4 allele in Alzheimer's disease. Declines in brain glucose metabolism have been described early in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and there is evidence that a genetic predisposition to AD contributes to accelerate this process. The epsilon 4 (e4) allele of the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene has been implicated as a major risk factor in this process. The aim of this FDG-PET study was to assess the ApoE e4 dose related effect on regional cerebral glucose metabolism (METglc) in clinical AD patients, with statistical voxel based methods. Eighty six consecutive mild to moderate AD patients included in the Network for Efficiency and Standardisation of Dementia Diagnosis database underwent FDG-PET scans at rest. PCR was used to determine the ApoE genotype. Patients were grouped as e4 non-carriers (n = 46), e3/e4 (n = 27) and e4/e4 (n = 13) carriers. A voxel-based mapping program was used to compare each AD subgroup with a database of 35 sex and age matched controls (p<0.001, corrected for cluster extent) and also to compare between the subgroups (p<0.001, uncorrected). No difference was found as to age at examination, age at onset, sex, disease duration, educational level, or severity of dementia between AD subgroups. Compared with controls, all AD subgroups had equivalent METglc reductions in the precuneus, posterior cingulate, parietotemporal, and frontal regions. Direct comparisons between AD subgroups indicated that patients with at least one e4 allele had METglc reductions within additional associative and limbic areas compared with e4 non-carriers. The present FDG-PET study showed different metabolic phenotypes related to the ApoE genotype in clinical AD patients, as revealed with voxel based statistical methods. The results suggest a generalised disorder in e4 carriers impairing metabolism globally, in addition to the more localised changes typical of AD patients."}
{"id": "14759630", "title": "Neuropsychological functions in variant Alzheimer's disease with spastic paraparesis.", "content": "Neuropsychological functions in variant Alzheimer's disease with spastic paraparesis. Few data exist on the effects of specific Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related mutations on cognitive function. We present neuropsychological test results in eight members of a large kindred with variant Alzheimer's disease (VarAD) due to a deletion of the presenilin 1 (PS-1) gene, encompassing exon 9. The disease was neuropathologically characterized by the presence of large, unusual, \"cotton wool\" plaques (CWP). Four surviving patients were prospectively tested, and retrospective neuropsychological data were collected from additional four deceased patients. The neuropsychological evaluation was based on tests of verbal and visual memory, abstract thinking, and visuoconstructive and spatial functions. In addition, psychiatric symptoms were evaluated. In four patients, brain glucose metabolism was examined by positron emission tomography (PET). PET showed temporoparietal hypometabolism typical of AD. In addition, variable patterns of hypometabolism (hemispherical asymmetry and occipital accentuation) were related to individual deficits of cognitive performance. However, all these early-onset patients (age range 43-63 years) with a deletion mutation of PS-1 gene showed prominent memory impairment and deficits in visuoconstructive and intellectual functions."}
{"id": "14754772", "title": "Partial recovery of brain metabolism in methamphetamine abusers after protracted abstinence.", "content": "Partial recovery of brain metabolism in methamphetamine abusers after protracted abstinence. Methamphetamine is a highly addictive drug of abuse that is neurotoxic to dopamine terminals. The authors recently reported that decreases in dopamine transporters (used as markers of dopamine terminals) in the striatum of methamphetamine abusers recover with protracted abstinence and that relative to comparison subjects, recently detoxified methamphetamine abusers have lower metabolism in the striatum and thalamus. In this study, the authors assessed whether metabolism recovers with protracted abstinence. Brain glucose metabolism was measured with positron emission tomography and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in five methamphetamine abusers who were evaluated after both a short (<6 months) and protracted (12-17 months) abstinence interval, eight methamphetamine abusers tested only after protracted abstinence, and 11 comparison subjects who were not drug users. Significantly greater thalamic, but not striatal, metabolism was seen following protracted abstinence relative to metabolism assessed after a short abstinence interval, and this increase was associated with improved performance in motor and verbal memory tests. Relative to the comparison subjects, the methamphetamine abusers tested after protracted abstinence had lower metabolism in the striatum (most accentuated in the caudate and nucleus accumbens) but not in the thalamus. The persistent decreases in striatal metabolism in methamphetamine abusers could reflect long-lasting changes in dopamine cell activity, and decreases in the nucleus accumbens could account for the persistence of amotivation and anhedonia in detoxified methamphetamine abusers. The recovery of thalamic metabolism could reflect adaptation responses to compensate for the dopamine deficits, and the associated improvement in neuropsychological performance further indicates its functional significance. These results suggest that while protracted abstinence may reverse some of the methamphetamine-induced alterations in brain function, other deficits persist."}
{"id": "14748211", "title": "Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: diffusion-weighted MRI and PET characteristics.", "content": "Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: diffusion-weighted MRI and PET characteristics. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is characterized by rapidly progressive dementia with a variety of neurological disorders and a fatal outcome. The authors present a case with visual disturbance as a leading symptom and rapid deterioration in global cognitive functions. The cerebrospinal fluid was positive for 14-3-3 protein, and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed marked hyperintensity in the parieto-occipital cortices, where hypometabolism was clearly detected on positron emission tomography (PET). Pattern-reversal visual evoked potentials showed prolonged P100 latencies and increased N/5/P100 amplitudes. All these findings supported a diagnosis of the Heidenhain variant of CJD, whereas a long clinical course, a lack of myoclonus, and an absence of periodic synchronous discharges on electroencephalography were atypical. Diffusion-weighted MRI and PE1 in combination with visual evoked potential recording and 14-3-3 protein detection may be useful for the early diagnosis of CJD."}
{"id": "14741650", "title": "In vivo study of acetylcholine esterase in basal forebrain, amygdala, and cortex in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease.", "content": "In vivo study of acetylcholine esterase in basal forebrain, amygdala, and cortex in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease. It is currently unclear whether impairment of the cholinergic system is present in Alzheimer disease (AD) already at an early stage and to what extent it depends on degeneration of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (nbM). We examined acetylcholine esterase activity in vivo in the nbM, the amygdala, and cerebral neocortex. Measurements were performed in normal controls and in patients with mild to moderate AD with positron emission tomography (PET) and C-11-labeled N-methyl-4-piperidyl-acetate (MP4A) which is a specific substrate of AChE. AChE activity was reduced significantly in amygdala and cerebral cortex. In contrast, AChE activity and glucose metabolism appeared preserved or even increased in the nbM. The results support the concept that neocortical and amygdaloid functional changes of the cholinergic system are an early and leading event in AD, rather than the consequence of neurodegeneration of basal nuclei."}
{"id": "14732628", "title": "Clinical progression and genetic analysis in hereditary spastic paraplegia with thin corpus callosum in spastic gait gene 11 (SPG11).", "content": "Clinical progression and genetic analysis in hereditary spastic paraplegia with thin corpus callosum in spastic gait gene 11 (SPG11). Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) with thin corpus callosum (CC) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder classified as a complicated form of spastic paraplegia. Some patients with HSP with thin CC have previously been described in Japanese families, and the genetic locus was linked to chromosome 15q13-15. Our objective was to further clinically and genetically characterize HSP with thin CC. We describe the clinical, structural, and functional follow-up and the genetic characterization of 2 sisters aged 26 and 31 years who had severe spastic paraplegia and cognitive impairment. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a thin CC with progressing frontoparietal cortical atrophy paralleled by cognitive decline. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we delineated a lack of transcallosal inhibition. Images obtained with(18)fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography showed reduced cortical and thalamic hypometabolism that decreased further within 4 years. Additionally, combined axonal loss and demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy were present. Because other family members were not affected, autosomal recessive inheritance was considered likely. Genetic analysis of this autosomal recessive HSP was consistent with the linkage to 15q13-15 (markers D15S971, D15S118, D15S994, and D15S659). No mutation was found within the SLC12A6 gene. Progressive axonal degeneration occurs in the corticocortical projections, corticospinal tract, and peripheral nerves in HSP with thin CC linking to chromosome 15q13-15 in a German pedigree."}
{"id": "14722656", "title": "[Mild cognitive disorder. Questions of definition, diagnosis, prognosis and therapy].", "content": "[Mild cognitive disorder. Questions of definition, diagnosis, prognosis and therapy]. The syndrome of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is heterogeneous in terms of aetiology, psychopathology, and prognosis. It is characterised by cognitive deterioration significantly exceeding the decline attributable to aging but not reaching the severity of dementia. The prevalence of MCI is estimated to be 17% in the population over 65 years old. At neuropathological examination, a large proportion of patients with mild cognitive impairment, particularly of the amnestic type, show typical features of Alzheimer's disease. The former progresses to dementia at an annual rate of 10% to 15%. In some cases, however, there is stable impairment or remission. The neurodegenerative process of Alzheimer's disease can be demonstrated in at least some patients using volumetric magnetic resonance imaging, 18-FDG positron emission tomography, or biochemical markers in the cerebrospinal fluid. It is not yet known whether patients with mild cognitive impairment or at least those with predementia Alzheimer's disease can benefit from currently available symptomatic treatments. Patients with early-stage Alzheimer's are an important target group for treatment interventions aiming at slowing the neurodegenerative process."}
{"id": "14706946", "title": "Mood disturbances and regional cerebral metabolic abnormalities in recently abstinent methamphetamine abusers.", "content": "Mood disturbances and regional cerebral metabolic abnormalities in recently abstinent methamphetamine abusers. Mood disturbances in methamphetamine (MA) abusers likely influence drug use, but the neurobiological bases for these problems are poorly understood. To assess regional brain function and its possible relationships with negative affect in newly abstinent MA abusers. Two groups were compared by measures of mood and cerebral glucose metabolism ([18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) during performance of a vigilance task. Participants were recruited from the general community to a research center. Seventeen abstaining (4-7 days) MA abusers (6 women) were compared with 18 control subjects (8 women). Self-reports of depressive symptoms and anxiety were measured, as were global and relative glucose metabolism in the orbitofrontal, cingulate, lateral prefrontal, and insular cortices and the amygdala, striatum, and cerebellum. Abusers of MA provided higher self-ratings of depression and anxiety than control subjects and differed significantly in relative regional glucose metabolism: lower in the anterior cingulate and insula and higher in the lateral orbitofrontal area, middle and posterior cingulate, amygdala, ventral striatum, and cerebellum. In MA abusers, self-reports of depressive symptoms covaried positively with relative glucose metabolism in limbic regions (eg, perigenual anterior cingulate gyrus and amygdala) and ratings of state and trait anxiety covaried negatively with relative activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and left insula. Trait anxiety also covaried negatively with relative activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and positively with amygdala activity. Abusers of MA have abnormalities in brain regions implicated in mood disorders. Relationships between relative glucose metabolism in limbic and paralimbic regions and self-reports of depression and anxiety in MA abusers suggest that these regions are involved in affective dysregulation and may be an important target of intervention for MA dependence."}
{"id": "14691075", "title": "Relationship between ethanol-induced changes in brain regional metabolism and its motor, behavioural and cognitive effects.", "content": "Relationship between ethanol-induced changes in brain regional metabolism and its motor, behavioural and cognitive effects. Acute alcohol administration induces marked decreases in glucose metabolism throughout the human brain. However, the relationship between alcohol's effects on brain metabolism and the behavioural changes that occur with intoxication are still unclear. Here we assessed this association using principal component analysis for dimension reduction and canonical correlations to gauge inter-class relationships. We also used canonical correlations in the polynomial space to assess for possible nonlinear relationships. After normalizing the regional measures to account for the large whole brain decreases observed with intoxication we show that the largest decreases occurred in occipital cortex and that there were relative increases in basal ganglia. Principal component analysis of the changes in the normalized measures revealed that 60% of the variance was accounted for by two factors; one that contrasted cerebellum versus frontal and anterior cingulate metabolism, and another that contrasted basal ganglia and insula. The square of the first factor was significantly correlated with the deterioration in cognitive performance. The second factor showed a significant linear correlation with self-reports of intoxication and with deterioration in cognitive and motor performance. These findings suggest that the contrasting effects of alcohol in basal ganglia versus the insula are involved in the perception of 'feeling drunk' and that its contrasting effects in cerebellum versus those in frontal and parietal cortices are involved in its motor incoordinating effects. On the other hand alcohol's impact on cognitive performance implicates a more complex pattern of brain effects that includes linear as well as non-linear associations."}
{"id": "14690773", "title": "Psychosis of Alzheimer's disease: clinical characteristics and history.", "content": "Psychosis of Alzheimer's disease: clinical characteristics and history. The concept of psychosis of Alzheimer's disease and dementia is developed with respect to prevalence, incidence, clinical characteristics, clinical course, and potential response to treatment. Psychosis frequently occurs subsequent to the onset of dementia. Published prevalence estimates of psychosis in patients with AD range from 10 to 73% with an overall median of 34% within clinic populations, and from 7 to 20% in community and clinical trials populations depending on definitions used. Among people with AD who have no psychotic symptoms there appears to be an annualized incidence of psychosis of about 20% in outpatients, and a much higher rate in nursing home patients. Female gender, somewhat greater cognitive impairment among outpatients, somewhat lesser cognitive impairment among nursing home patients, and physical aggression are more associated with psychotic signs and symptoms than not. Right frontal hypometabolism and greater frontal neuropsychological deficits occur in AD patients with psychosis in comparison to those without. Among nursing home patients with dementia who have clinically significant agitation, the substantial majority have delusions or hallucinations. Among patients in nursing homes with dementia and psychosis, nearly two-thirds have persistent symptoms over at least 12 weeks, and among outpatient studies, hallucinations and delusions may persist in approximately 40-50% over periods of 3 months to one year. There is some evidence that psychotic symptoms improve modestly with antipsychotic medication treatment. There is sufficient descriptive and empirical research to support the validity of a syndrome of psychosis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "14688411", "title": "Functional brain abnormalities in young adults at genetic risk for late-onset Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Functional brain abnormalities in young adults at genetic risk for late-onset Alzheimer's dementia. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) studies have found that patients with Alzheimer's dementia (AD) have abnormally low rates of cerebral glucose metabolism in posterior cingulate, parietal, temporal, and prefrontal cortex. We previously found that cognitively normal, late-middle-aged carriers of the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele, a common susceptibility gene for late-onset Alzheimer's dementia, have abnormally low rates of glucose metabolism in the same brain regions as patients with probable AD. We now consider whether epsilon4 carriers have these regional brain abnormalities as relatively young adults. Apolipoprotein E genotypes were established in normal volunteers 20-39 years of age. Clinical ratings, neuropsychological tests, magnetic resonance imaging, and PET were performed in 12 epsilon4 heterozygotes, all with the epsilon3/epsilon4 genotype, and 15 noncarriers of the epsilon4 allele, 12 of whom were individually matched for sex, age, and educational level. An automated algorithm was used to generate an aggregate surface-projection map that compared regional PET measurements in the two groups. The young adult epsilon4 carriers and noncarriers did not differ significantly in their sex, age, educational level, clinical ratings, or neuropsychological test scores. Like previously studied patients with probable AD and late-middle-aged epsilon4 carriers, the young epsilon4 carriers had abnormally low rates of glucose metabolism bilaterally in the posterior cingulate, parietal, temporal, and prefrontal cortex. Carriers of a common Alzheimer's susceptibility gene have functional brain abnormalities in young adulthood, several decades before the possible onset of dementia."}
{"id": "14607797", "title": "Striatal neural grafting improves cortical metabolism in Huntington's disease patients.", "content": "Striatal neural grafting improves cortical metabolism in Huntington's disease patients. Huntington's disease is a hereditary disease in which degeneration of neurons in the striatum leads to motor and cognitive deficits. Foetal striatal allografts reverse these deficits in phenotypic models of Huntington's disease developed in primates. A recent open-label pilot study has shown some clinical improvement or stabilization in three out of five Huntington's disease patients who received bilateral striatal grafts of foetal neurons. We show here that the clinical changes in these three patients were associated with a reduction of the striatal and cortical hypometabolism, demonstrating that grafts were able to restore the function of striato-cortical loops. Conversely, in the two patients not improved by the grafts, striatal and cortical hypometabolism progressed over the 2-year follow-up. Finally, detailed anatomical-functional analysis of the grafted striata, enabled by the 3D fusion of MRI and metabolic images, revealed considerable heterogeneity in the anatomic and metabolic profiles of grafted tissue, both within and between Huntington's disease patients. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of PET measurements of brain glucose metabolism in understanding the effects of foetal grafts in patients with Huntington's disease."}
{"id": "15098340", "title": "[Inferior frontal region hypoperfusion in Parkinson disease with dementia].", "content": "[Inferior frontal region hypoperfusion in Parkinson disease with dementia]. Dementia is more frequent in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD) then in general population. The mechanism for mental deterioration in PD remains controversial. The aim of our study was comparison of the regional cerebral perfusion quantified by single photon emission computed tomography in patients suffering from idiopathic Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. We examined 49 PD patients: 22 PD patients with dementia and 27 PD patients without dementia. Dementia was recognized according to ICD-10 and DSM-IV criteria. Cognitive functions were executed by means of the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and neuropsychological assessment. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and Modified Hoehn & Yahr Scale was used to quantify the severity of PD. SPECT was performed with Siemens Diacam single--head rotating gamma camera after intravenous application of technetium 99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO). The perfusion values were expressed as cortical or basal ganglia regions of interest (ROIs)/cerebellum activity ratios. In both examined group of patients the lowest uptake was in basal ganglia region, while the highest uptake was in occipital region. In the subgroup of PD patients with dementia significant hypoperfusion affecting the inferior frontal cortices was observed. In Parkinson's disease with dementia hypoperfusion in inferior frontal region can be found."}
{"id": "14715441", "title": "Coupled reductions in brain oxidative phosphorylation and synaptic function can be quantified and staged in the course of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Coupled reductions in brain oxidative phosphorylation and synaptic function can be quantified and staged in the course of Alzheimer disease. In vivo, post-mortem and biopsy data suggest that coupled declines occur in brain synaptic activity and brain energy consumption during the evolution of Alzheimer disease. In the first stage of these declines, changes in synaptic structure and function reduce neuronal energy demand and lead to potentially reversible downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) within neuronal mitochondria. At this stage, measuring brain glucose metabolism or brain blood flow in patients, using positron emission tomography (PET), shows that the brain can be almost normally activated in response to stimulation. Thus, therapy at this stage should be designed to re-establish synaptic integrity or prevent its further deterioration. As disease progresses, neurofibrillary tangles with abnormally phosphorylated tau protein accumulate within neuronal cytoplasm, to the point that they co-opt the nonphosphorylated tau necessary for axonal transport of mitochondria between the cell nucleus and the synapse. In this second stage, severe energy depletion and other pathological processes associated with irreversibly downregulated OXPHOS lead to cell death, and the brain cannot normally respond to functional stimulation."}
{"id": "14678804", "title": "Executive dysfunction and avoidant personality trait in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM-1) and in proximal myotonic myopathy (PROMM/DM-2).", "content": "Executive dysfunction and avoidant personality trait in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM-1) and in proximal myotonic myopathy (PROMM/DM-2). A previous study in proximal myotonic myopathy (PROMM/DM-2) and myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM-1) using brain positron emission tomography demonstrated a reduced cerebral blood flow in the frontal and temporal regions associated with cognitive impairment. The objective was to investigate further cognitive and behavioural aspects in a new series of patients with DM-1 and PROMM/DM-2. Nineteen patients with genetically determined PROMM/DM-2 and 21 patients with moderately severe DM-1 underwent neuropsychological testing and neuropsychiatric interviews. DM-1 and PROMM/DM-2 patients had significantly lower scores on tests of frontal lobe function compared to controls. Neuropsychiatric interviews demonstrated an avoidant trait personality disorder in both patient groups. Brain single photon emission computed tomography showed frontal and parieto-occipital hypoperfusion. The results suggest that there is a specific cognitive and behavioural profile in PROMM/DM-2 and in DM-1, and that this profile is associated with hypoperfusion in frontal and parieto-occipital regions of the brain."}
{"id": "14636327", "title": "Gender-specific differences of hypometabolism in mTLE: implication for cognitive impairments.", "content": "Gender-specific differences of hypometabolism in mTLE: implication for cognitive impairments. To determine gender differences of hypometabolism and their implications for cognitive impairment in patients with medically refractory mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE). Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) was studied in 42 patients (21 male, 21 female) with either left- or right-sided mTLE (22 left, 20 right) and in 12 gender- and age-matched healthy controls during resting wakefulness and in 12 sex- and age-matched healthy controls. Clinical characteristics were balanced across the patient subgroups. All patients were subjected to neuropsychological assessment: 41 patients had histologic changes of definite or probable hippocampal sclerosis. Data analysis based on pixel-by-pixel comparisons and on a laterality index of regions of interest (ROIs) showed significant depressions of the mean rCMRGlu extending beyond the mesiotemporal region and temporolateral cortex to extratemporal regions including the frontoorbital and insular cortex in mTLE patients. Extramesiotemporal hypometabolism prevailed in the male patients. Metabolic asymmetry in temporal and frontal regions was related to performance in the Trail-Making Test and WAIS-R subitems. Our data showed a gender-specific predominance of extramesiotemporal hypometabolism in male patients with mTLE related to abnormalities of temporal and frontal lobe functions."}
{"id": "14627060", "title": "When should functional neuroimaging techniques be used in the diagnosis and management of Alzheimer's dementia? A decision analysis.", "content": "When should functional neuroimaging techniques be used in the diagnosis and management of Alzheimer's dementia? A decision analysis. Functional neuroimaging, including positron emission tomography (PET), has been proposed for use in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease-related dementia (AD). The objective of this study was identify the circumstances under which PET scanning for the diagnosis of AD maximizes health outcomes. A Markov-model-based decision analysis was conducted using estimates derived from the literature on AD epidemiology, the accuracy of PET, and donepezil treatment efficacy. The target population for the analysis was assumed to be US men and women who either have mild AD or are asymptomatic but at an elevated risk of developing AD owing to disease in a first-degree relative (parent or sibling). The time horizon was the patient lifetime. We compared treatment 1) based on an American Academy of Neurology (AAN) clinical evaluation either alone; 2) in combination with PET scanning; or 3) empirically based on a family history. Outcomes measures were life expectancy, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and (severe) dementia-free life expectancy (SDFLE). For both patient populations, treating all patients based on an AAN evaluation without further testing using PET resulted in the greatest gains in life expectancy, QALYs, and SDFLEs. PET-based testing was the second preferred strategy compared to no intervention. The rankings of the strategies were sensitive to severity of treatment complications: analyses of hypothetical treatments with the potential for severe complications indicated that testing was preferred if the treatment was effective but had moderate complications. These results suggest that current treatments, which are relatively benign and may slow progression of disease, should be offered to patients who are identified as having AD based solely on an AAN clinical evaluation. A clinical evaluation that includes functional neuroimaging based testing will be warranted, however, when new treatments that are effective at slowing disease progression but have the potential for moderate to severe complications become available."}
{"id": "14622168", "title": "Retrosplenial cortex (BA 29/30) hypometabolism in mild cognitive impairment (prodromal Alzheimer's disease).", "content": "Retrosplenial cortex (BA 29/30) hypometabolism in mild cognitive impairment (prodromal Alzheimer's disease). Previous group studies using positron emission tomography to assess resting cerebral glucose metabolism in very early Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment have identified the posterior cingulate and adjacent cingulo-parietal cortex as the first isocortical area to develop hypometabolism. We studied the profile of resting cerebral glucose metabolism in individuals with mild cognitive impairment to assess whether more specific and stereotyped regional hypometabolism would be evident across subjects. The study found that the most consistently hypometabolic region between individual subjects was a subregion of the posterior cingulate, the retrosplenial cortex (BA 29/30). This result is discussed in the context of regional connectivity, focal lesion evidence and functional activation studies of episodic memory paradigms in both normal and Alzheimer's disease groups. We propose that the retrosplenial cortex may represent a key junction between prefrontal areas involved in implementing retrieval strategies for episodic memory and hippocampal-based mnemonic processing; we therefore interpret the retrosplenial hypometabolism as a probable contributor to the memory impairment seen in mild cognitive impairment by disconnecting these two anatomical networks."}
{"id": "14617709", "title": "The topography of metabolic deficits in posterior cortical atrophy (the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease) with FDG-PET.", "content": "The topography of metabolic deficits in posterior cortical atrophy (the visual variant of Alzheimer's disease) with FDG-PET. The term \"posterior cortical atrophy\" (PCA) refers to a clinical syndrome in which higher order visual processing is disrupted owing to a neurodegenerative disorder, the most commonly associated pathology being Alzheimer's disease. To map the topography of hypometabolic brain regions in a group of subjects with PCA who had undergone detailed neuropsychological characterisation. Resting cerebral metabolism was measured with ((18)F)fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in patients with PCA (n = 6), typical Alzheimer's disease (n = 10), and healthy controls (n = 10). The data were analysed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) and region of interest techniques. Clinically, the PCA subjects showed predominant visuospatial deficits (including features of Balint's syndrome) consistent with damage to the dorsal stream of visual processing. Compared with the controls, the PCA group showed marked glucose hypometabolism primarily affecting the posterior cerebral hemispheres (right worse than left). In addition, the PCA group showed two symmetrical areas of hypometabolism in the region of the frontal eye fields. Compared with typical Alzheimer's disease, the PCA group had selective hypometabolism in the occipito-parietal region (right much worse than left). The neuropsychological and PET findings are consistent with damage predominantly to the dorsal stream of visual processing. Frontal eye field hypometabolism secondary to loss of input from the occipito-parietal region may be the mechanism for the ocular apraxia seen in Balint's syndrome."}
{"id": "14598067", "title": "Dopaminergic degeneration and perfusional impairment in Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dopaminergic degeneration and perfusional impairment in Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The clinical differentiation of Lewy body dementia (LBD) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be difficult. The aim of the present study was to assess the dopamine transporter function and the perfusional pattern in LBD and AD in vivo. Twenty patients with probable LBD and 24 with probable AD underwent on 2 separate days a brain perfusional SPECT with 99mTc-ECD and a SPECT with (123)I-FP-CIT, a ligand of dopamine transporter. In LBD a significantly ( p<0.0005) lower ratio of specific (bilateral caudate nucleus, putamen) to non-specific (occipital cortex) (123)I-FP-CIT binding than in AD was reported. Perfusional data (SPM analysis) showed a significant ( p<0.001) decrease of temporo-parietal blood flow in AD versus LBD, whereas in LBD a significant ( p<0.001) occipital hypoperfusion with respect to AD was reported. Our findings confirm that dopaminergic nigrostriatal function is impaired in LBD. The selective occipital hypoperfusion in LBD needs to be further investigated."}
{"id": "14597319", "title": "Validating FDG-PET as a biomarker for frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Validating FDG-PET as a biomarker for frontotemporal dementia. Positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) has been used to study neurodegenerative disease for the past two decades. This imaging method has conclusively demonstrated that dementing diseases are multifocal, rather than global, brain disorders and has shown that clinically similar dementias may have significantly different patterns of regional glucose metabolism. These observations have helped to focus pathological investigations and provided new insights into disease pathophysiology, yet the diagnostic potential of FDG-PET has not been fully exploited. Now that FDG-PET is becoming widely available to clinicians, it is timely to consider how to evaluate its utility in diagnosing dementing diseases. FDG-PET may be especially valuable in the clinical recognition of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FTD causes a distinctive pattern of cerebral glucose hypometabolism, but can be difficult to distinguish clinically from more common disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and psychiatric disturbances. Currently available studies primarily evaluate metabolic changes in groups of patients and are inadequate to rely upon when evaluating individuals. Additional carefully designed clinical trials are needed to validate FDG-PET as a diagnostic biomarker."}
{"id": "14571840", "title": "[A case of probable dementia with Lewy bodies presenting with geographic mislocation and nurturing syndrome].", "content": "[A case of probable dementia with Lewy bodies presenting with geographic mislocation and nurturing syndrome]. A 83-year-old right handed man developed nurturing syndrome and geographical mislocation (misidentification of places) as a result of dementia with Lewy bodies. He showed parkinsonism, fluctuating cognition, repeated falls, systematic delusions (delusional jealousy with vivid feeling of witness), rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, and mild dementia. His brain MRI showed atrophy of bilateral temporal tips and amygdala. A FDG-PET showed decrease of glucose metabolism in right frontal lobe and left temporo-parietal areas. He showed constructional disability, frontal lobe dysfunction, mild deterioration of immediate memory, mild anterograde amnesia, and retrograde amnesia for recent events. Aphasia, apraxia, agnosia, confabulation, or deterioration of facial perception was not noted. He could state the genealogy, ages and recent whereabouts of his relatives, and could state the locations and geographical relationships of his neighboring buildings. He insisted that his father's existence, who had died 52 years ago, although he talked about the episode of his death just before. One month after having a dream that his sick-room was in a fictitious branch of our hospital which located in his neighboring temple, he developed a delusion that his ward was actually in the temple. The former disorder seems to correspond to the nurturing syndrome described by Venneri et al. (2000), and the latter one suggested us that his dream was causally involved in the formation of geographical mis-localization. After Ramachandran's explanation for Capgras' syndrome, we hypothesized that mis-arousal of familiarity evoked by visual perception or memory was attributable to the dysfunction of amygdala, and failure of consistency-checking was caused by the dysfunction of the right frontal lobe."}
{"id": "14569826", "title": "Comparative evaluation of concomitant structural and functional neuroimages in Rasmussen's encephalitis.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of concomitant structural and functional neuroimages in Rasmussen's encephalitis. Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a rare condition of unknown cause characterized by intractable seizures, progressive hemiparesis, mental impairment, and inflammatory histological findings in the cortex. The primary diagnosis is based on biopsy to confirm the typical clinical, electroencephalography, and brain imaging findings. The main objective of this study was to compare simultaneous structural and functional neuroimages in RE. Concomitant magnetic resonance imaging and 2-deoxy-2-[18F]-fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography data from the authors' series of 5 children and 8 patients described in the literature were analyzed and compared. Typical early findings of RE include metabolic abnormalities (hypermetabolism and hypometabolism) starting in the frontal or temporal regions or, occasionally, involving the whole hemisphere. Focal abnormalities of cerebral glucose metabolism indicate lesions sooner and depict their extent better than concomitant magnetic resonance images. The major structural abnormality remains unilateral; however, contralateral frontal lobe hypometabolism or crossed cerebellar diaschisis can be a finding of this disease. Basal ganglia involvement and whole hemispheric metabolic abnormality appear typically only after several months of disease onset. Concomitant structural and functional neuroimaging provide possibly complementary information in the early noninvasive workup of RE and may facilitate the early diagnosis of this rare disorder."}
{"id": "14568131", "title": "Glucose metabolic dysfunction in subjects with a clinical dementia rating of 0.5.", "content": "Glucose metabolic dysfunction in subjects with a clinical dementia rating of 0.5. To investigate the cerebral glucose metabolism of subjects who had a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) of 0.5, we studied 40 subjects whose CDR was 0.5 and 40 age-matched healthy subjects. Cerebral glucose image of each subject was obtained by [18F]-2-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET). The anatomically standardized images were produced with NEUROSTAT. Then, the two groups were compared with the Statistical Parametric Mappings (SPM) 99. A comparison with the SPM 99 revealed that relative cerebral glucose metabolism was lower in the posterior cingulate gyri and parietal lobules in the CDR 0.5 group than in the healthy subjects group. These findings are very similar to those in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and suggest that the majority of subjects with CDR 0.5 are suffering from very mild AD or at least a prodromal state of AD."}
{"id": "14561431", "title": "Hippocampal glucose metabolism is associated with cerebrospinal fluid estrogen levels in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hippocampal glucose metabolism is associated with cerebrospinal fluid estrogen levels in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease. Animal studies indicate that estrogens, such as 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), may enhance hippocampal metabolism and function. In postmenopausal Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) E(2) levels were significantly lower than in non-demented controls. This finding was inversely correlated with CSF beta-amyloid levels. To address the potential impact of this finding, E(2) levels in CSF were correlated with regional cerebral [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) uptake as measured using positron emission tomography (PET) in six postmenopausal AD patients. CSF E(2) levels were determined using an electro-chemiluminescence-immunoassay on the Roche Elecsys 2010 immunoassay analyzer. Basic image processing was done by MEDx, using SPM routines for spatial normalization and statistics. CSF E(2) levels were significantly correlated with cerebral glucose metabolism in the left hippocampus. This is the first clinical study indicating an association between CSF E(2) concentration and hippocampal glucose metabolism in postmenopausal women with AD."}
{"id": "14561428", "title": "Persistence of disturbed thalamic glucose metabolism in a case of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.", "content": "Persistence of disturbed thalamic glucose metabolism in a case of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. We report the case of a 40-year-old alcoholic male patient, hospitalized with an acute ataxia of stance and gait, ocular muscle weakness with nystagmus and a global apathetic-confusional state. After admission, an amnestic syndrome with confabulation was also observed and diagnosis of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome was made. Under treatment with intravenous thiamine, the patient recovered completely from gaze weakness and ataxia, whereas a severe amnestic syndrome persisted. Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) showed bilateral thalamic and severe bilateral temporal-parietal hypometabolism resembling a pattern typical for Alzheimer's disease. Longitudinal assessment of the alcohol-abstinent and thiamine-substituted patient revealed improvements of clinical state and neuropsychological performance that were paralleled by recovered cerebral glucose metabolism. In contrast to metabolic rates that increased between 7.1% (anterior cingulate, left) and 23.5% (parietal, left) in cortical areas during a 9-month remission period, thalamic glucose metabolism remained severely disturbed over time (change: left +0.2%, right +0.3%)."}
{"id": "14512720", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in monozygotic twins discordant for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in monozygotic twins discordant for Alzheimer's disease. We investigated regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates (rCMRgluc) with positron emission tomography using 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) in 7 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Ten healthy volunteers with comparable mean age and educational level served as controls. In the hippocampus, the mean +/- SD rCMRgluc were 0.20 +/- 0.03 micromol/ml/min for the demented twins, 0.21 +/- 0.03 micromol/ml/min for their non-demented co-twins, and 0.23 +/- 0.02 micromol/ml/min for the controls. The mean hippocampal rCMRgluc was reduced in the demented twins (p = 0.006), compared with the controls. In the lateral temporal cortex, the mean +/- SD rCMRgluc were 0.27 +/- 0.05, 0.28 +/- 0.04, and 0.32 +/- 0.02 micromol/ml/min, respectively. These mean rates were reduced both in the demented (p = 0.02) and the non-demented (p = 0.01) twins, compared with the controls. In conclusion, in the demented twins, the reduction of rCMRgluc was detected in the hippocampus and lateral temporal cortex, i.e. the 2 brain areas which show early changes in pathological and imaging studies in AD. Their non-demented co-twins showed milder reductions, which may be an indication of genetic susceptibility for dementia, and an early sign of a dementing illness in them."}
{"id": "13677801", "title": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer disease: an evidence-based review.", "content": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer disease: an evidence-based review. Current clinical criteria (DSM-IIIR and NINCDS-ADRDA) for the diagnosis of dementia and AD are reliable; however, these criteria remain to be validated by clinicians of different levels of expertise at different clinical settings. Structural neuroimaging has an important role in initial evaluation of dementia for ruling out potentially treatable causes. Although CT is the appropriate choice when brain tumors, subdural hematoma, or normal pressure hydrocephalus is suspected, MR imaging is more sensitive to the white-matter changes in vascular dementia. The diagnostic accuracy of PET, SPECT, 1H MRS, and MR volumetry of the hippocampus for distinguishing patients with AD from healthy elderly individuals is comparable to the accuracy of a pathologically confirmed clinical diagnosis. Sensitivity of PET for distinguishing patients with dementia with Lewy bodies from AD, however, is higher than that of clinical evaluation; similarly, SPECT and 1H MRS may be adjuncts to clinical evaluation for distinguishing patients with frontotemporal dementia from those with AD. Neuroimaging is valuable in predicting future development of AD in patients with MCI and in carriers of the ApoE epsilon 4 allele who are at a higher risk of developing AD than are cognitively normal elderly individuals. Quantitative MR techniques (e.g., MR volumetry, DWI, magnetization transfer MR imaging, and 1H MRS) and PET are sensitive to the structural and functional changes in the brains of patients with MCI, and hippocampal volumes on MR imaging are associated with future development of AD in these individuals. PET is also sensitive to the regional metabolic decline in the brains of carriers of the ApoE epsilon 4 allele. The longitudinal decrease of whole brain and hippocampal volumes on MR imaging, NAA levels on 1H MRS, cerebral glucose metabolism on PET, and cerebral blood flow on SPECT are associated with rate of cognitive decline in patients with AD. These neuroimaging markers may be useful for monitoring symptomatic progression in groups of patients with AD for drug trials. Furthermore, antemortem MR-based hippocampal volumes correlate with the pathologic stage of AD, and the rate of hippocampal volume loss on MR imaging correlates with clinical disease progression in the cognitive continuum from normal aging to MCI and to AD. Hence, as an in vivo correlate of pathologic involvement, structural imaging measures are potential surrogate markers for disease progression in patients with established AD and in patients with prodromal AD, who will benefit most from disease-modifying therapies underway."}
{"id": "12971119", "title": "[Two cases of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Two cases of frontotemporal dementia]. Frontotemporal dementias represent the third most common cause of primer degenerative dementias next to Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body disease. Frontotemporal dementia constitutes 10-20% of all praesenilis dementias. The authors present the results of the 10 years' clinical, neuropsychological, neuropathological examinations and brain imaging with the examples of two cases. At the early stage of frontotemporal dementia changes of personality and social conduct are prominent, whereas cognitive functions are relatively well preserved. The usual dementia tests are not sufficiently sensitive to disclose non-cognitive symptoms. Clinical diagnosis as well as differentiation from functional psychiatric disorders can be difficult. Brain imaging present the frontal and the anterior temporal lobe atrophy and selective hypometabolism in these areas. The typical onset is between at the age 50 and 65 years. It is very rare under the age of 30. The symptoms of two patients started at the age of 42-44. The first diagnosis was post traumatic stress disorder. Later stereotyped behaviour, mental rigidity, hyperorality, irritability, progressive reduction of speech and vegetative dysfunctions appeared. Besides the affecting of the irresistibly worsening symptoms and the medical care requiring strength and inventiveness, the authentic informing of the relatives is also a challenge. The caregivers have special relationship with the patients and their relatives."}
{"id": "12960545", "title": "Effects of subanesthetic doses of ketamine on regional cerebral blood flow, oxygen consumption, and blood volume in humans.", "content": "Effects of subanesthetic doses of ketamine on regional cerebral blood flow, oxygen consumption, and blood volume in humans. Animal experiments have demonstrated neuroprotection by ketamine. However, because of its propensity to increase cerebral blood flow, metabolism, and intracranial pressure, its use in neurosurgery or trauma patients has been questioned. 15O-labeled water, oxygen, and carbon monoxide were used as positron emission tomography tracers to determine quantitative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), metabolic rate of oxygen (rCMRO2), and blood volume (rCBV), respectively, on selected regions of interest of nine healthy male volunteers at baseline and during three escalating concentrations of ketamine (targeted to 30, 100, and 300 ng/ml). In addition, voxel-based analysis for relative changes in rCBF and rCMRO2 was performed using statistical parametric mapping. The mean +/- SD measured ketamine serum concentrations were 37 +/- 8, 132 +/- 19, and 411 +/- 71 ng/ml. Mean arterial pressure was slightly elevated (maximally by 15.3%, P < 0.001) during ketamine infusion. Ketamine increased rCBF in a concentration-dependent manner. In the region-of-interest analysis, the greatest absolute changes were detected at the highest ketamine concentration level in the anterior cingulate (38.2% increase from baseline, P < 0.001), thalamus (28.5%, P < 0.001), putamen (26.8%, P < 0.001), and frontal cortex (25.4%, P < 0.001). Voxel-based analysis revealed marked relative rCBF increases in the anterior cingulate, frontal cortex, and insula. Although absolute rCMRO2 was not changed in the region-of-interest analysis, subtle relative increases in the frontal, parietal, and occipital cortices and decreases predominantly in the cerebellum were detected in the voxel-based analysis. rCBV increased only in the frontal cortex (4%, P = 0.022). Subanesthetic doses of ketamine induced a global increase in rCBF but no changes in rCMRO2. Consequently, the regional oxygen extraction fraction was decreased. Disturbed coupling of cerebral blood flow and metabolism is, however, considered unlikely because ketamine has been previously shown to increase cerebral glucose metabolism. Only a minor increase in rCBV was detected. Interestingly, the most profound changes in rCBF were observed in structures related to pain processing."}
{"id": "12955216", "title": "[Volumetric MRI for evaluation of regional pattern and progressin of neocortical degeneration in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Volumetric MRI for evaluation of regional pattern and progressin of neocortical degeneration in Alzheimer's disease]. Volumetric analysis of the corpus callosum and hippocampus using MRI in Alzheimer's disease (AD) to evaluate the regional pattern and progression of neocortical neurodegeneration. In subsequent studies we investigated patients with AD and healthy controls. Volumetry was based on MRI-data from a sagittal 3D T1w-gradient echo sequence. The corpus callosum (CC) was measured in a midsagittal slice, and subdivided into 5 subregions. Volumetry of the hippocampus/amygdala-formation (HAF) was performed by segmentation in coronary reoriented slices. In AD patients we found a significant atrophy in the rostrum und splenium of CC. The atrophy was correlated with the severity of dementia, but no correlation was found with the load of white matter lesions. In comparison with (18)FDG-PET, we found a significant correlation of regional CC-atrophy with the regional decline of cortical glucose metabolism. A ROC-analysis demonstrated no significant differences in the diagnostic accuracy of HAF volumetry and regional CC volumetry of the splenium (region C5) even in mild stages of dementia. Regional atrophy of CC can be used as a marker of neocortical degeneration even in early stages of dementia in AD."}
{"id": "12955214", "title": "[PET and SPECT investigations in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[PET and SPECT investigations in Alzheimer's disease]. Nuclear medicine offers a wide range of possibilities to investigate dementia. Various SPECT and PET tracers will be introduced in this article first. Different questions concerning evaluation of dementia are discussed taking Alzheimer's disease (AD) as an example. It is important to perform nuclear medicine investigations on high technical level, using standardized methods as statistical parametric mapping (SPM) for evaluation. If neuroprotective therapies are available, an early diagnosis, the determination of risk factors and longitudinal investigations will be the focus of interest and the main goal of nuclear medicine. Apart from measuring cerebral perfusion and glucose metabolism the development of new ligands, concerning the cholinergic system and the visualization of amyloid plaques, is of great importance."}
{"id": "12953266", "title": "Limbic hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Limbic hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. The neural basis of the amnesia characterizing early Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains uncertain. Postmortem pathological studies have suggested early involvement of the mesial temporal lobe, whereas in vivo metabolic studies have shown hypometabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex. Using a technique that combined the anatomic precision of magnetic resonance imaging with positron emission tomography, we found severe reductions of metabolism throughout a network of limbic structures (the hippocampal complex, medial thalamus, mamillary bodies, and posterior cingulate) in patients with mild AD. We then studied a cohort with mild cognitive impairment in whom amnesia was the only cognitive abnormality and found comparable hypometabolism through the same network. The AD and mild cognitive impairment groups were differentiated, however, by changes outside this network, the former showing significant hypometabolism in amygdala and temporoparietal and frontal association cortex, whereas the latter did not. The amnesia of very early AD reflects severe but localized limbic dysfunction."}
{"id": "12940841", "title": "Metabolic impairment of brain metabolism in patients with Lewy body dementia.", "content": "Metabolic impairment of brain metabolism in patients with Lewy body dementia. A reliable assessment of dementia is essential for a differentiated treatment. Recent studies have demonstrated a poor accuracy of clinical criteria for diagnosis of Lewy body dementia. Diffuse Lewy body disease (LBD) is the second most common cause of senile degenerative dementia and is characterized histologically by the occurrence of Lewy bodies in allocortical, neocortical and subcortical structures. Seven male patients (mean age 81 years) with clinically suspected diffuse LBD were investigated with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET using a Siemens ECAT-ART PET-scanner. The 18F-FDG-PET showed a diffuse glucose hypometabolism in the entire cerebral cortex with relative sparing of the primary sensory-motor cortex in all patients. This diffuse metabolic impairment in the entire cortex with relative sparing of central region seems to be a typical pattern for LBD, distinct from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "12935418", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism and neuropsychological test in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism and neuropsychological test in patients with mild cognitive impairment. To investigate the features of regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) by positron emission-tomography and its relationship with neuropsychological test. Positron emission tomography, mini-mental state examination and Wechsler memory scale were applied in 10 patients with MCI and 10 healthy volunteers as the control group. Scores of mini-mental state examination and Wechsler memory scale in MCI patients were lower than those in the control group (P < 0.01). rCMRglc of the left orbital gyrus, right middle temporal gyrus and right putamen was lower in the MCI group than in the control group (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis in the MCI group indicated that rCMRglc of many brain regions such as the orbital gyrus, putamen, left hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, cingulate gyrus, left amygdaloid body, precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, and medial occipitotemporal gyrus in MCI patients, were correlated negatively with age; while the rCMRglc of many parts of the brain such as the left putamen, temporal lobe, anterior cingulate gyrus, left insular lobe, amygdaloid body, precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus and medial occipitotemporal gyrus were correlated positively with mini-mental state examination; and rCMRglc of the left putamen, temporal lobe, left insular lobe, precentral gyrus and postcentral gyrus were correlated positively with Wechsler memory scale. The right putamen, the right inferior temporal gyrus, precentral gyrus, and left postcentral gyrus were correlated positively with the length of education. However, only rCMRglc of the left amygdaloid body were correlated positively with gender. The rCMRglc was lower in the orbital gyrus and putamen of MCI patients. Their rCMRglc were correlated with their cognitive impairment severity, age, length of education and sex."}
{"id": "12925932", "title": "A case of unilateral neglect in Huntington's disease.", "content": "A case of unilateral neglect in Huntington's disease. Unilateral neglect, an attentional deficit in detecting and acting on information coming from one side of space, is a relatively common consequence of right hemisphere stroke. Although neglect has been observed following damage to a variety of brain structures, to date no reports exist of neglect phenomena arising from Huntington's Disease (HD). However, reports in the animal and human literature suggest that neglect is possible following damage to a primary site for Huntington's pathology, the basal ganglia. Here we present a patient (BG) with genetically proven HD who, in the context of the mild intellectual, executive and attentional impairments associated with the disorder, showed a remarkably severe and stable neglect for left space. MRI and electrophysiological results make it unlikely that the spatial bias could be accounted for by basic sensory loss. In addition, behavioural investigation indicated that, although BG's neglect operated in a very striking manner along body-centred co-ordinates (missing almost all information presented to her left), more general limitations in visual attention were apparent to the left-side of information presented entirely to the right of the body midline. Further evidence is presented showing that the neglect was manifest on tactile and auditory tasks as well as those presented in the visual domain. The presence of neglect in HD in this case is novel and somewhat puzzling, particularly as flourodeoyglucose positron emission tomography revealed bilateral caudate hypoperfusion. Reducing the statistical threshold on this analysis revealed a potential frontal hypometabolism that was more marked in the right than left hemisphere. However, as this was only apparent at a threshold below that normally considered acceptable (due to the resulting number of false positives), this possible account of the neglect must be viewed very cautiously."}
{"id": "12915072", "title": "Neuropsychological and perceptual defects in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Neuropsychological and perceptual defects in Parkinson's disease. Neuropsychiatric, perceptual and cognitive deficits are increasingly recognized as non-motor manifestations of Parkinson's Disease (PD).The premorbid personality profile of PD patients is characterized by a number of traits which figure prominently after the disease becomes manifest. In particular, less novelty seeking is one premorbid trait providing an understanding of later cognitive deficits. Anxiety and depression have been shown to precede in some patients motor manifestations and cannot be attributed to anti-parkinsonian therapy. Some neuropsychiatric manifestations and in particular hallucinosis are linked to select perceptual and cognitive changes. Cognitive deficits are common in PD, in particular in younger onset patients. Current animal studies link genetic differences in the dopamine transporter and dopamine catabolic enzyme system to select cognitive impairments attributed to frontal lobe dysfunction.Visuo-cognitive impairment is prevalent in PD. Retinal dopaminergic deficiency has been shown in patients and in the animal model of PD. Visuo-spatial deficits, however, are not simply passive reflections of retinal deficiency. In addition to vision, saccadic eye movements are affected in PD whether they contribute to visuo-spatial dysfunction is unknown. However, recent functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalogram (EEG) studies show an essential role of the occipital cortex in saccadic eye movements and positron emission tomography (PET) studies show occipital hypometabolism in PD. Visual and eye movement studies suggest that certain neuropsychiatric and cognitive deficits in PD are linked to the visual system. Synchrony of signals are essential for the co-operation of distributed neuronal network engaged in sensory-motor coordination. Local, dopaminergic neuronal groups in the retina, basal ganglia and frontal cortical memory system are affected in PD. These connections may not primarily rely on dopamine as a neurotransmitter. It is suggested that to understand visuocognitive changes we should consider pathology affecting neuronal connections, necessary for binding parallel distributed networks."}
{"id": "12902311", "title": "Progressive non-fluent aphasia is associated with hypometabolism centred on the left anterior insula.", "content": "Progressive non-fluent aphasia is associated with hypometabolism centred on the left anterior insula. Progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) is a syndrome in which patients lose the ability to communicate fluently in the context of relative preservation of single word comprehension and non-linguistic cognitive abilities. Neuroimaging in case studies with PNFA has failed to identify a consistent neural substrate for the language disorder. In this study of a group of patients (n=10) whose presenting complaint was progressive dysfluency, resting cerebral metabolism was measured using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-PET and analysed with the technique of statistical parametric mapping (SPM). Regional atrophy was assessed with voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Seven patients had a 'pure' PNFA syndrome, while the remaining three had additional features of a more pervasive dementia. Compared with controls, the patients showed hypometabolism in several regions that, most notably, included the left anterior insula/frontal opercular region. The VBM analysis revealed only one small area of atrophy in the left peri-Sylvian region. Analysis of the pure PNFA cases (n=7) relative to controls yielded qualitatively similar results to those of the whole group, suggesting that these cases were also at risk of a more generalized dementia, a finding borne out in subsequent follow-up of two cases to date. The PNFA group was then compared with a group with Alzheimer's disease (n=10) whose clinical profile did not include non-fluent aphasic features. In this analysis, the only persisting hypometabolic region was that centred over the left anterior insula. VBM did not identify any regional differences in atrophy between PNFA and Alzheimer's disease. In the light of current theories of fluent language production, the findings offer anatomical evidence that the breakdown in fluency is due to a motor articulatory planning deficit (speech apraxia) combined with a variable degree of agrammatism."}
{"id": "12867268", "title": "A PET study following treatment with a pharmacological stressor, FG7142, in conscious rhesus monkeys.", "content": "A PET study following treatment with a pharmacological stressor, FG7142, in conscious rhesus monkeys. FG7142 is a benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist, which is known as a pharmacological stressor. Several reports demonstrated that FG7142 produced anxiety in humans, non-human primates, and rodents, and impaired working memory in non-human primates and rodents. In this study, we examined the effect of FG7142 on cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography (PET) in conscious rhesus monkeys. Male rhesus monkeys were intramuscularly treated with FG7142 (0.2 or 1.0 mg/kg, n=5, respectively), and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) were measured by PET 20 min and 40 min after treatment, respectively. During PET measurement, physiological parameters and plasma cortisol levels were monitored. FG7142 significantly decreased rCBF in the thalamus and rCMRglc in all brain regions examined in a dose-dependent manner without changes in physiological parameters. FG7142 also significantly increased plasma cortisol levels. The present study may provide an important insight into the understanding of the pathophysiology of anxiety and stress-related disorders in humans, and strongly suggesting that prevention of anxiety or stress is important when measuring conscious brain function."}
{"id": "12861957", "title": "Asymptomatic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders and neuroprotection with vinpocetine.", "content": "Asymptomatic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders and neuroprotection with vinpocetine. The asymptomatic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders (AICVD) is an early manifestation of cerebrovascular disease. It is also known as latent insufficiency of the cerebrovascular circulation or as asymptomatic cerebrovascular disorders. Recently, the term subclinical disease, detected noninvasively, has been introduced by American Heart Association. The diagnosis is based on the following criteria: evidence of vascular risk factors; episodic nonspecific complaints without any focal cerebral symptoms; mild cognitive deficit, detected by neuropsychological tests; carotid ultrasonography often shows intimal-medial thickening, atherosclerotic plaques and carotid stenosis; CT and MRI occasionally reveal silent cerebral infarctions, white matter hyperintensities or cerebral atrophy; regional hypoperfusion above the ischemic threshold is also seen by rCBF measurements. Treatment of the AICVD, modifying the vascular risk factors and using neuroprotective agents, should be the cornerstone of primary prevention of ischemic stroke and cognitive decline, caused by cerebrovascular disorders. Vinpocetine has been found to interfere with various stages of the ischemic cascade: ATP depletion, activation of voltage-sensitive Na(+)- and Ca(++)-channels, glutamate and free radicals release. The inhibition of the voltage-sensitive Na(+)-channels appears to be especially relevant to the neuroprotective effect of vinpocetine. Pronounced antioxidant activity of the drug could also contribute to the neuroprotection. PET studies in primates and man showed that 11C labelled vinpocetine passes the blood-brain barrier rapidly. Heterogeneous brain distribution of the compound was observed mainly in the thalamus, basal ganglia, occipital, parietal and temporal cortex, regions which are closely related to the cognitive functions. PET studies in chronic ischemic stroke patients revealed favourable effects of vinpocetine on rCBF and glucose metabolism in the thalamus, basal ganglia and primary visual cortex. It seems, vinpocetine, affecting the multiple mechanisms of the AICVD, could be of benefit for the treatment in this early stage of cerebrovascular disease. Vinpocetine may also become a new therapeutic approach to prophylactic neuroprotection in patients at high risk of ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "12850504", "title": "Microdialysis and 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG): a study on insulin action on FDG transport, uptake and metabolism in rat muscle, liver and adipose tissue.", "content": "Microdialysis and 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG): a study on insulin action on FDG transport, uptake and metabolism in rat muscle, liver and adipose tissue. A combination of microdialysis (MD) and 2-[18F ]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) was used to assess FDG uptake, phosphorylation and the glucose metabolic index (Rg') in certain tissues of fed and fasting anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats which received an i.v. bolus injection of insulin or saline during the course of the study. The relative recovery for FDG for the MD probes was also measured as a function of flow rate and temperature. The elimination half-life (T(1/2 FDG)) of FDG from the plasma and the extracellular fluid of muscle and liver was studied with MD. The phosphorylation of FDG in muscle, liver, subcutaneous fat and mesenteric fat from homogenates of these tissues was analyzed by a radioHPLC-method and the Rg' was calculated. The results show that the nutritional status does not affect the T(1/2 FDG), the total uptake of FDG 6-phosphate or the Rg' values in the studied tissues at ambient glucose. Insulin stimulation decreased T(1/2 FDG), and increased the total FDG 6-P accumulation and Rg' in the muscle of fed and fasted rats. In adipose tissues the insulin stimulation enhanced the phosphorylation but in muscle the proportion of FDG 6-P remained unchanged. Rg' in adipose tissue was higher after insulin administration in fed rats than without insulin but with fasted rats there were no differences in Rg' values with or without insulin, although the proportion of FDG 6-P did increase. The Rg' values for the livers were unaffected by any of the manipulations, but fasted rats accumulated proportionately more FDG 6-P after insulin administration than did fed rats. These results indicate that the combination of MD and FDG is a valuable and reliable tool when studying glucose metabolism in physiological and pathological models in vivo."}
{"id": "12842717", "title": "Quantitative EEG and dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI in Alzheimer's disease: a correlative study.", "content": "Quantitative EEG and dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI in Alzheimer's disease: a correlative study. To investigate the relationship between the electroencephalographic (EEG) power spectra features obtained by quantitative EEG (qEEG) and the hemodynamic parameters detected by dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging (DSC MRI) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Fourteen patients with probable AD and 15 elderly healthy controls were included in the study. All subjects underwent both EEG recording in a rest condition and perfusion MRI. Three EEG scalp areas were defined (anterior, central and posterior) and power spectra values were obtained from each scalp area. Relative values of temporoparietal and sensorimotor regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) were measured bilaterally and successively averaged to obtain a total perfusion index. The brain atrophy index was calculated and used as a covariate to rCBV. Correlation analysis was performed between EEG variables and hemodynamic-morphological parameters. qEEG power spectra of AD patients were characterized by an increase in mean relative power of theta (4-7.75 Hz) associated with a decrease in alpha (8-12.75 Hz) frequency bands with a topographic distribution over the central and posterior EEG scalp regions, when compared with controls; beta (13-31 Hz) frequency band also displayed a significant decrease over the anterior and posterior EEG scalp regions of AD patients with respect to controls. The DSC MRI revealed a bilateral reduction in the temporoparietal and sensorimotor rCBV with respect to controls. Correlation analysis showed that the total level of hypoperfusion selectively correlates with the EEG power spectra in theta and alpha frequency bands distributed over anterior/central and central region, respectively. Within AD patients, the lower the level of hypoperfusion, the higher the content of EEG power spectra in theta frequency band, and the lower the level of hypoperfusion, the lower the content of EEG power spectra in alpha band. The combined qEEG and DSC MRI technology unveiled a selective correlation between neurophysiological and hemodynamical patterns in AD patients. Further investigations will ascertain the relevance of this multi-modal approach in the heterogeneous clinical context of AD."}
{"id": "12824811", "title": "Alcohol intoxication induces greater reductions in brain metabolism in male than in female subjects.", "content": "Alcohol intoxication induces greater reductions in brain metabolism in male than in female subjects. The mechanisms underlying the gender differences in alcohol drinking behavior and alcohol's effects are poorly understood and may reflect gender differences in brain neurochemistry. Alcohol decreases glucose metabolism in the human brain in a pattern that is consistent with its facilitation of GABAergic neurotransmission. We compared the regional changes in brain glucose metabolism during alcohol intoxication between female and male subjects. Ten female and 10 male healthy controls were scanned with positron emission tomography and 2-deoxy-2[18F]fluoro-D-glucose twice: 40 min after placebo (diet soda) or alcohol (0.75 g/kg mixed with diet soda). Alcohol significantly and consistently decreased whole-brain metabolism. The magnitude of these changes was significantly larger in male (-25 +/- 6%) than in female (-14 +/- 11%; p < 0.005) subjects. Half of the female subjects had reductions in metabolism during intoxication that were significantly lower than those in male subjects. This blunted response in the female subjects was not due to differences in alcohol concentration in plasma, because these did not differ between the genders. In contrast, the self-reports for the perception of intoxication were significantly greater in female than in male subjects. The cognitive deterioration during alcohol intoxication, although not significant, tended to be worse in female subjects. This study shows a markedly blunted sensitivity to the effects of acute alcohol on brain glucose metabolism in female subjects that may reflect gender differences in alcohol's modulation of GABAergic neurotransmission. The greater behavioral effects of alcohol in female subjects despite the blunted metabolic responses could reflect other effects of alcohol, for which the regional metabolic signal may be hidden within the large decrements in metabolism that occur during alcohol intoxication."}
{"id": "12823502", "title": "Striatal infarcts mimicking frontotemporal dementia: a case report.", "content": "Striatal infarcts mimicking frontotemporal dementia: a case report. We described a patient with bilateral striatal infarcts, in whom stereotyped and disinhibited behaviors were insidiously emerged over 2 years mimicking frontotemporal dementia (FTD). A positron emission tomography with 18-fluorodeoxy glucose showed a hypometabolism in the frontal lobes, basal ganglia, and thalami. The peculiar behavioral alterations remained unchanged for the following 7 years, suggesting that the disease is not degenerative but of vascular origin. A disruption of the fronto-subcortical circuits at the level of the striatum or the anterior thalamic peduncle is attributable to the FTD-like behavioral and cognitive syndrome."}
{"id": "12821520", "title": "Dissociating atrophy and hypometabolism impact on episodic memory in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Dissociating atrophy and hypometabolism impact on episodic memory in mild cognitive impairment. The present study aims to unravel, in the same study, both morphological and functional specific substrates of encoding versus retrieval deficits in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI). For this purpose, 21 highly screened MCI patients with isolated memory impairment, who attended a memory clinic and fulfilled operational criteria for MCI, underwent (i) two episodic memory subtests designed to assess preferentially either incidental encoding or retrieval capacity; (ii) a high-resolution T1-weighted volume MRI scan; and (iii) a resting state [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET study. Using statistical parametric mapping, positive correlations between memory scores on one hand, and grey matter density and normalized partial volume effect-corrected brain glucose utilization (ncCMRglc) on the other hand, were computed. Deficits in both encoding and retrieval were correlated with declines in hippocampal region grey matter density. The encoding subtest also correlated with hippocampal ncCMRglc, whereas the retrieval subtest correlated with the posterior cingulate area ncCMRglc only. The present findings highlight a distinction in the neural substrates of encoding and retrieval deficits in MCI. Furthermore, they unravel a partial dissociation between metabolic and structural correlates, suggesting distinct interpretations. Hippocampal atrophy was related to both encoding and retrieval deficits, possibly reflecting a direct effect on hippocampal functioning, as well as an indirect effect, through remote functional disruption, on posterior cingulate region synaptic function, respectively."}
{"id": "12819409", "title": "A metabolic imaging severity rating scale for the assessment of cognitive impairment.", "content": "A metabolic imaging severity rating scale for the assessment of cognitive impairment. This study was designed to validate a simple scoring system for evaluating fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomographic (PET) scans that can be used routinely in patients undergoing the clinical assessment of cognitive impairment. The FDG-PET scans of 106 patients with cognitive impairment (65 with Alzheimer disease, 16 with frontal lobe dementia, and 25 atypical cases) were acquired using the PENN-PET scanner 40 minutes after the intravenous administration of 8 mCi FDG. Metabolic activity in various anatomic structures of the brain was scored using the following qualitative scale: 4 = normal; 3 = mildly decreased; 2 = moderately decreased; 1 = severely decreased; and 0 = no activity. Regions of interest were also placed over these regions to obtain a quantitative value. Two distinct scores were obtained. Values for visual and sensorimotor cortices, thalami, basal ganglia, and cerebellum comprised score I. Score II consisted of the values for the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. The qualitative metabolic imaging severity rating scale (MISRS) was compared with a quantitative MISRS (obtained from the region-of-interest analysis of the same structures). The MISRS was then compared with the results from the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) and the Dementia Severity Rating Score (DSRS). In all patients, the qualitative MISRS scores correlated significantly with the quantitative MISRS (r = 0.73, P < 0.0001). In all patients with cognitive impairment, the qualitative and quantitative MISRS scores correlated significantly with the DSRS and the MMSE (P < 0.001). In patients with Alzheimer disease, the qualitative and quantitative MISRS significantly correlated with the DSRS and MMSE. A simple and practical rating scale can be used to assess the severity of cognitive impairment in patients with different types of dementing illnesses."}
{"id": "12812674", "title": "[Relationship between three neuropsychological tests and cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Relationship between three neuropsychological tests and cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease]. To study the relationship between the scores of 3 neuropsychological scales: MMSE, extended scale of dementia (ESD) and Blessed dementia scale (BDS) and cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease (AD) indicated by positron emission tomography (PET). Brain scanning was performed with SIEMENS ECAT 47 PET scanner among 21 AD patients, aged 60 - 83 (10 mild, 6 moderate, and 5 severe), and 15 healthy persons, aged 57 - 73. The ratio of mean radioactivity of cerebral lobe to that of cerebellum as semi-quantitative parameters was used to evaluate the cerebral glucose metabolism. Cognitive function was assessed by three neuropsycholigical scales: MMSE, ESD and BDS. The average MMSE score was 13.3 +/- 6.3 (range 2 - 25), the average ESD score was 120.5 +/- 54.8 (range 28 - 200), and the average BDS score was 4.7 +/- 3.1 (range 0.5 - 10) in the AD patients. The decreases of glucose metabolism in parietal, frontal and temporal lobes were significantly positively correlated with MMSE and ESD scores, and negatively correlated with BDS scores in AD patients (P < 0.05). The correlations between MMSE and ESD (r = 0.886), MMSE and BDS (r = -0.763), and ESD and BDS (r = -0.773) were significant in AD patients (all P < 0.01). Taking the ratio of radioactivity of cerebral lobe to that of cerebellum as an independent variable X, the MMSE, ESD and BDS scorsas dependent variable Y, three regression equations were established as follows: Y = 40.11 * X- 25.32, Y = 309.19 * X- 180.9, Y = 19.97 - 16.53 * X. The independent variable entering the three regression equations was always the ratio of radioactivity of left parietal lobe to that of cerebellum. The ratio of radioactivity of left parietal lobe to that of cerebellum was a significant predictor for cognitive dysfunction measured by MMSE, ESD and BDS in AD patients (P < 0.01). MMSE, ESD and BDS scores correlate well with impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in AD. The function of left parietal lobe may play an important role in the progress of the disease. MMSE, ESD and BDS are good measures for cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "12805099", "title": "Clinical and molecular findings in a patient with a novel mutation in the deafness-dystonia peptide (DDP1) gene.", "content": "Clinical and molecular findings in a patient with a novel mutation in the deafness-dystonia peptide (DDP1) gene. The Mohr-Tranebjaerg syndrome (MTS) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by early-onset deafness, dystonia and further neurological abnormalities such as cortical blindness, spasticity, dementia and mental retardation. Causative mutations were identified within the deafness-dystonia peptide (DDP1/TIMM8a) gene on the X-chromosome. The DDP1 protein is located in the intermembrane space of human mitochondria. Here, it acts in a complex together with its partner protein Tim13 in a chaperone-like manner to facilitate the import of nuclear-encoded precursor proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Thus, MTS is a novel type of mitochondrial disorder. To obtain more insight into the pathophysiology of this neurodegenerative disorder, we performed for the first time a comprehensive clinical and functional characterization of a patient suffering from MTS. This patient exhibited a typical combination of deafness, dystonia and visual loss. Sequence analysis of the patient's DDP1 gene revealed a G to C transversion at nucleotide position 38 of the first exon. The mutation affects the ATG start codon, thereby changing methionine to isoleucine (M1I), and leads to a complete absence of the DDP1 protein. In addition, the partner protein Tim13 was found to be significantly reduced, suggesting that Tim13 requires the presence of DDP1 for its stabilization. The assessment of mitochondrial functions showed the enzyme activities of the mitochondrial energy-generating systems to be normal in the muscle biopsy. Structural abnormalities or aggregations of mitochondria were absent. Electron microscopy revealed only a mild neurogenic atrophy. Neurophysiological investigations showed cochlear dysfunction and disturbance of visual pathways. PET and MRI studies revealed a multifocal pattern of neurodegeneration with hypometabolic areas predominantly located over the right striatum and parietal cortex and marked atrophy of the occipital lobes. Although the visual loss is caused predominantly by neurodegeneration of the visual cortex, degeneration of the retina and the optic nerve contributes to the visual impairment. The pathological changes in basal ganglia and sensory cortex demonstrate the disintegration of subcortico-cortical circuits and correlate well with the clinical presentation of multifocal dystonia. The data presented here showed that, in contrast to most of the known mitochondrial disorders, MTS appears not to be associated with a functional defect of the energy generation system of the mitochondria. Whereas the specific mitochondrial dysfunction leading to neuronal loss in MTS remains to be clarified, the electrophysiological and neuroimaging findings allowed the multifocal manifestation of neurodegenerative lesions in MTS to be characterized specifically."}
{"id": "12791811", "title": "Cortical hypometabolism and crossed cerebellar diaschisis suggest subcortically induced disconnection in CADASIL: an 18F-FDG PET study.", "content": "Cortical hypometabolism and crossed cerebellar diaschisis suggest subcortically induced disconnection in CADASIL: an 18F-FDG PET study. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is an inherited small-vessel disease caused by mutations in the NOTCH3 gene. As in sporadic small-vessel disease, ischemic lesions are largely confined to subcortical structures, whereas the cortex is spared. CADASIL, therefore, may serve as a model to study subcortically induced remote effects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate with (18)F-FDG PET whether regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) is altered in CADASIL patients and, if so, whether there is evidence of subcortically induced disconnection. Eleven CADASIL patients (7 women, 4 men; mean age, 55.8 +/- 6.7 y) without cortical lesions on brain MR images underwent PET after intravenous injection of 120 MBq (18)F-FDG, with calculation of rCMRglc according to a previously published method. For further processing, patient studies were registered to a template of a healthy control group and region-of-interest-based and voxelwise comparisons were performed. In CADASIL patients, mean rCMRglc was significantly reduced in all cortical and subcortical structures, compared with the values in healthy volunteers. In the subcortical gray matter, metabolic rates, given as the percentage of the mean of healthy volunteers, were 49.7%, 65.3%, and 51.6% in the caudate, putamen, and thalamus, respectively. Among cortical structures, the values were 66.9%, 67.9%, 67.2%, and 76.5% for the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes, respectively. On an individual level, most patients showed marked asymmetry and inhomogeneities of cortical glucose metabolism. In 6 (55%) CADASIL patients, there was evidence of crossed cerebellar diaschisis. This study showed that cortical glucose metabolism is significantly lower in CADASIL patients than in healthy volunteers. The observed decrease in rCMRglc may in part be explained by a reduction of cerebral blood flow and neuronal loss. In addition, our data provide evidence of remote effects secondary to the functional disruption of subcortical fiber tracts in this particular type of small-vessel disease."}
{"id": "12790355", "title": "PET studies in dementia.", "content": "PET studies in dementia. Measurement of local cerebral glucose metabolism (lCMRGlc) by positron emission tomography (PET) and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) has become a standard technique during the past 20 years and is now available at many university hospitals in all highly developed countries. Many studies have documented a close relation between lCMRGlc and localized cognitive functions, such as language and visuoconstructive abilities. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by regional impairment of cerebral glucose metabolism in neocortical association areas (posterior cingulate, temporoparietal and frontal multimodal association cortex), whereas primary visual and sensorimotor cortex, basal ganglia, and cerebellum are relatively well preserved. In a multicenter study comprising 10 PET centers (Network for Efficiency and Standardisation of Dementia Diagnosis, NEST-DD) that employed an automated voxel-based analysis of FDG PET images, the distinction between controls and AD patients was 93% sensitive and 93% specific, and even in very mild dementia (at MMSE 24 or higher) sensitivity was still 84% at 93% specificity. Significantly abnormal metabolism in mild cognitive deficit (MCI) indicates a high risk to develop dementia within the next two years. Reduced neocortical glucose metabolism can probably be detected with FDG PET in AD on average one year before onset of subjective cognitive impairment. In addition to glucose metabolism, specific tracers for dopamine synthesis (18F-F-DOPA) and for (11C-MP4A) are of interest for differentiation among dementia subtypes. Cortical acetylcholine esterase activity (AChE) activity is significantly lower in patients with AD or with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) than in age-matched normal controls. In LBD there is also impairment of dopamine synthesis, similar to Parkinson disease."}
{"id": "12764551", "title": "Cerebral metabolic changes accompanying conversion of mild cognitive impairment into Alzheimer's disease: a PET follow-up study.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic changes accompanying conversion of mild cognitive impairment into Alzheimer's disease: a PET follow-up study. A high percentage of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) develop clinical dementia of the Alzheimer type (AD) within 1 year. The aim of this longitudinal study was to identify characteristic patterns of cerebral metabolism at baseline in patients converting from MCI to AD, and to evaluate the changes in these patterns over time. Baseline and follow-up examinations after 1 year were performed in 22 MCI patients (12 males, 10 females, aged 69.8+/-5.8 years); these examinations included neuropsychological testing, structural cranial magnetic resonance imaging and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) evaluation of relative cerebral glucose metabolic rate (rCMRglc). Individual PET scans were stereotactically normalised with NEUROSTAT software (Univ. of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA). Subsequently, statistical comparison of PET data with an age-matched healthy control population and between patient subgroups was performed using SPM 99 (Wellcome Dept. of Neuroimaging Sciences, London, UK). After 1 year, eight patients (36%) had developed probable AD (referred to as MCI(AD)), whereas 12 (55%) were still classified as having stable MCI (referred to as MCI(MCI)). Compared with the healthy control group, a reduced rCMRglc in AD-typical regions, including the temporoparietal and posterior cingulate cortex, was detected at baseline in patients with MCI(AD). Abnormalities in the posterior cingulate cortex reached significance even in comparison with the MCI(MCI) group. After 1 year, MCI(AD) patients demonstrated an additional bilateral reduction of rCMRglc in prefrontal areas, along with a further progression of the abnormalities in the parietal and posterior cingulate cortex. No such changes were observed in the MCI(MCI) group. In patients with MCI, characteristic cerebral metabolic differences can be delineated at the time of initial presentation, which helps to define prognostic subgroups. A newly emerging reduction of rCMRglc in prefrontal cortical areas is associated with the transition from MCI to AD."}
{"id": "12754348", "title": "Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity is related to global cerebral oxygen metabolism after head injury.", "content": "Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity is related to global cerebral oxygen metabolism after head injury. After head injury, impaired cerebrovascular autoregulation has been associated with abnormally high or low cerebral blood flow. The physiological relevance of cerebral blood flow levels is difficult to assess in these patients, whose cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO(2)) is known to be abnormal. Investigation of these relations requires quantitative measures of cerebral blood flow and CMRO(2), to allow assessment of oxygen supply and demand relations. To investigate the relation between dysautoregulation and global cerebral oxygen metabolism following head injury. Using positron emission tomography, global cerebral blood flow, CMRO(2), and oxygen extraction fraction were determined in 22 patients who were investigated in 26 examinations on days 1 to 11 (mean (SD), 3.5 (2.3)) after head injury. Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity was assessed using a pressure reactivity index, calculated as the moving linear correlation coefficient between mean arterial blood pressure and intracranial pressure. Outcome was assessed six months after injury using the Glasgow outcome scale. Low CMRO(2) was associated with disturbed pressure reactivity (inverse function, R(2) = 0.21, p = 0.018) and there was a correlation between disturbed pressure reactivity and oxygen extraction fraction (quadratic function, R(2) = 0.55, p = 0.0001). There was no significant relation between pressure reactivity and cerebral blood flow. An unfavourable outcome was associated with disturbed pressure reactivity. There was no significant relation between outcome and CMRO(2) or oxygen extraction fraction. There is a close relation between dysautoregulation and abnormal cerebral metabolism but not blood flow. Further studies are needed to determine whether metabolic dysfunction is a result of or a cause of disturbed pressure reactivity, and to establish if there is a relation between cerebral oxygen metabolism and outcome."}
{"id": "12707450", "title": "Mild cognitive impairment: Can FDG-PET predict who is to rapidly convert to Alzheimer's disease?", "content": "Mild cognitive impairment: Can FDG-PET predict who is to rapidly convert to Alzheimer's disease? Patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) were assessed, and a metabolic profile associated with conversion to AD at 18-month follow-up was sought. As compared with nonconverters (n = 10), converters (n = 7) had lower fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the right temporoparietal cortex (p = 0.02, corrected for cluster size), without individual overlap. Awaiting replication in an independent sample, these findings suggest that among patients with MCI, fluorodeoxyglucose PET may accurately identify rapid converters."}
{"id": "12701730", "title": "Speech perception after cochlear implantation over a 4-year time period.", "content": "Speech perception after cochlear implantation over a 4-year time period. To evaluate the long-term speech perception of cochlear implantees and to compare the developing auditory performance patterns of prelingual children and postlingual deaf adults. Twenty-nine prelingually deaf children and 17 postlingually deaf adults who had been followed up for 4 years were included in the study. Speech perception ability was assessed by means of vowel and consonant confusion tests and the Korean version of the Central Institute of Deafness (K-CID) test (performed without visual cues). The test results were analyzed at 3 and 6 months after implantation and then annually. In the prelingually deaf children, the average results continuously improved over the 4-year period. In the postlingually deaf adults, the average results did not improve further after the first 2 years. Individuals with < 5 years of deafness had a faster rate of recovery of speech perception than those who had been deaf for > 5 years. The K-CID scores were negatively correlated with age at implantation for the prelingually deaf group and with the duration of deafness in the postlingually deaf group. Children fitted with implants at a younger age showed better speech perception ability than those fitted with implants at an older age. Interestingly, prelingually deaf children aged 5-7 years at implantation showed the widest variation in individual outcomes. Amongst this group of children with highly variable outcomes, the metabolic status of brain cortices determined by means of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) was available for three patients. The individual with the widest hypometabolic area had the best speech perception ability. The extent of hypometabolism as assessed by FDG-PET seemed to be one of the major factors predicting the outcome of cochlear implantation."}
{"id": "12695884", "title": "Reduced glutamate neurotransmission in patients with Alzheimer's disease -- an in vivo (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy study.", "content": "Reduced glutamate neurotransmission in patients with Alzheimer's disease -- an in vivo (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy study. Cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not fully explained. PET indicates reduced cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. Since glutamate neurotransmission (GNT) consumes more than 80% of the ATP generated from metabolism, a pilot study was carried out to determine the neuronal tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) based on the hypothesis that reduced GNT could contribute to cognitive impairment in AD. Three AD patients with cognitive impairment (mini-mental state exam: 24 vs 30, P<0.05) and significant reduction in both N-acetyl aspartate (NAA)/Creatine (Cr) ( P<0.009) and NAA/myo-inositol (mI) ratio ( P<0.01), and three age-matched controls each received 0.014-0.016 g/kg/min 99%1-13C glucose IV. Quantitative (1)H and proton-decoupled (13)C MR brain spectra were acquired from combined posterior-parietal white matter and posterior-cingulate gray matter every 5 min for 140 min.(13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) measures of glucose oxidation and neuronal TCA rate, including prolonged time to (13)C enrichment of glutamate (Glu2) ( P<0.004) and bicarbonate (HCO(3)) ( P<0.03) as well as reduced relative enrichment of Glu(2)/Glu(4) between 60 and 100 min ( P<0.04), were significantly different in AD patients vs. controls. (13)C measures of GNT, glutamine (Gln)(2)/Glu(2) ( P<0.02) and rates of glutamate enrichment (Glu(2)/glucose: 0.34 vs 0.86, P=ns and Glu(4)/glucose 0.26 vs 0.83, P=ns), were also reduced.(13)C MRS measures of neuronal TCA cycle, glucose oxidation and GNT were significantly correlated with measures of neuronal integrity: NAA/Cr, [NAA] and mI/NAA as determined by (1)H MRS ( R(2)=0.73-0.95; P<0.05-0.01), suggesting that impairment of GNT may be a contributing factor in the cognitive impairment characteristic of AD."}
{"id": "12690052", "title": "Progressive striatal and cortical dopamine receptor dysfunction in Huntington's disease: a PET study.", "content": "Progressive striatal and cortical dopamine receptor dysfunction in Huntington's disease: a PET study. We have studied the progression of striatal and extrastriatal post-synaptic dopaminergic changes in a group of 12 patients with Huntington's disease using serial (11)C-raclopride PET, a specific marker of D2 dopamine receptor binding. All patients had two (11)C-raclopride PET scans 29.2 +/- 12.8 months apart, and six of them had a third scan 13.2 +/- 3.9 months later. We found a mean annual 4.8% loss of striatal (11)C-raclopride binding potential (BP) between the first and second scans, and a 5.2% loss between the second and third scans. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) localized significant baseline reductions in (11)C-raclopride BP in both striatal and extrastriatal areas, including amygdala, temporal and frontal cortex in Huntington's disease compared with normal subjects matched for age and sex. When the (11)C-raclopride scans performed 29 months after the baseline scans were considered, SPM revealed further significant striatal, frontal and temporal reductions in (11)C-raclopride BP in Huntington's disease. Cross-sectional Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS) scores correlated with (11)C-raclopride binding, but there was no correlation between individual changes in UHDRS motor scores and changes in striatal binding. Performance on all neuropsychological measures deteriorated with time but only the accuracy score of the one-touch Tower of London test correlated significantly with striatal and putamen D2 binding. In summary, serial (11)C-raclopride PET demonstrates a linear progression of striatal loss of D2 receptors in early clinically affected Huntington's disease patients over 3 years. SPM also revealed a progressive loss of temporal and frontal D2 binding. Changes over time in clinical scores and in neuropsychological assessments, except for measures of planning, did not correlate with striatal D2 binding. This probably reflects both contributions from other affected brain structures and high variance in these measures."}
{"id": "12684722", "title": "Diagnostic imaging in 13 cases of Rasmussen's encephalitis: can early MRI suggest the diagnosis?", "content": "Diagnostic imaging in 13 cases of Rasmussen's encephalitis: can early MRI suggest the diagnosis? Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE) is a rare, progressive, chronic encephalitis characterised by drug-resistant epilepsy, progressive hemiparesis and mental impairment. It typically involves only one cerebral hemisphere, which becomes atrophic. We present neuroradiological findings in 13 children with RE. MRI was performed in all patients, fluorodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography (PET) in three, Tc-99m hexamethylpropylenamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in two and proton MR spectroscopy ((1)HMRS) in two. MRI showed progression of the hemisphere atrophy, always prevalent in the region primarily involved (13 patients), spread of the abnormal signal in white matter (11) and cortex (10) and progression of atrophy of the head of the caudate nucleus (nine). Associated secondary changes were: atrophy of the contralateral cerebellar hemisphere (in four patients), the ipsilateral hippocampus (in five) and the brain stem (in five). The earliest CT and MRI abnormalities, seen between 1 day and 4 months after the first seizure (in 12 patients examined, nine of whom had MRI) in one cerebral hemisphere included: high signal on T2-weighted images in the cortex (seven patients) and white matter (nine), cortical atrophy usually involving the frontoinsular region, with mild or severe enlargement of the lateral ventricle (eight) and moderate atrophy of the head of the caudate nucleus (seven). Cortical swelling in the early stage of the disease was recognisable only in two patients. PET revealed hypometabolism, SPECT decreased perfusion, and (1)HMRS reduction of N-acetylaspartate in the affected hemisphere. PET and SPECT were usually performed in the late stages and did not provide specific findings. MRI thus demonstrates the progression of RE and may suggest the diagnosis in the early stages, often before the appearance of neurological deficits. Early diagnosis of RE may be crucial for selecting patients for aggressive medical therapy or major surgical interventions such as hemispherectomy."}
{"id": "12649841", "title": "[Biomarkers, mild cognitive impairment and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Biomarkers, mild cognitive impairment and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Elderly people are concerned about changes in their cognitive functioning. Since cholinergic therapies for Alzheimer's disease have been developed and become widely accepted, elderly people have come to visit clinics to seek medical advice about whether such a subtle change in cognitive ability may represent an early manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). If they are likely to develop dementia or AD, they want to receive immediate medical treatment as soon as possible to prevent further loss of cognitive functioning so that they can live independently as long as possible. The first priority in the clinical application of a biomarker is that biomarker should contribute to early diagnosis of dementia. Among such biomarkers, we believe that cerebrospinal fluid markers and functional brain imaging are clinically the most applicable procedures. Since 1993, we have collected 623 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples at The Tohoku University Hospital for evaluation of dementia (age: 42-93). We found that CSF/phospho-tau measures produced the most adequate sensitivity (85.2%) and specificity (85.0%) in the diagnosis of AD as a sole bio-marker. The CSF levels of A beta 1-42 showed a strong positive correlation with the Mini-mental state examination score and brain glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography. The baseline levels of both total-tau and phospho-tau in CSF increased in approximately 70% of patients with mild cognitive impairment who later developed AD, suggesting that pathological change in the brain might start years before dementia becomes clinically manifested. A combined use of CSF-tau and IMP-SPECT improved the predictability of the transition from mild cognitive impairment into AD."}
{"id": "12640074", "title": "Thyrotoxic autoimmune encephalopathy: a repeat positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Thyrotoxic autoimmune encephalopathy: a repeat positron emission tomography study. Thyroid related autoantibodies have been related to the development of encephalopathy, known as Hashimoto's encephalopathy. However, their relation with the encephalopathy occurring in patients with Graves' disease has not been well established. The case is reported of a 51 year old woman presenting with subacute progressive dementia with evidence of hyperthyroidism. She had Graves' disease associated with high titres of thyroid related autoantibodies. Her encephalopathy was not improved by antithyroid drugs, but promptly responded to corticosteroid treatment, and stabilised with a gradual reduction of thyroid related autoantibody titres. Brain positron emission tomography initially showed a diffuse and multifocal cerebral hypometabolism with subsequent normalisation on her clinical recovery, which was consistent with the acute and reversible cerebral inflammation probably mediated by autoimmune mechanisms."}
{"id": "12620967", "title": "Transgenic rat model of Huntington's disease.", "content": "Transgenic rat model of Huntington's disease. Huntington's disease (HD) is a late manifesting neurodegenerative disorder in humans caused by an expansion of a CAG trinucleotide repeat of more than 39 units in a gene of unknown function. Several mouse models have been reported which show rapid progression of a phenotype leading to death within 3-5 months (transgenic models) resembling the rare juvenile course of HD (Westphal variant) or which do not present with any symptoms (knock-in mice). Owing to the small size of the brain, mice are not suitable for repetitive in vivo imaging studies. Also, rapid progression of the disease in the transgenic models limits their usefulness for neurotransplantation. We therefore generated a rat model transgenic of HD, which carries a truncated huntingtin cDNA fragment with 51 CAG repeats under control of the native rat huntingtin promoter. This is the first transgenic rat model of a neurodegenerative disorder of the brain. These rats exhibit adult-onset neurological phenotypes with reduced anxiety, cognitive impairments, and slowly progressive motor dysfunction as well as typical histopathological alterations in the form of neuronal nuclear inclusions in the brain. As in HD patients, in vivo imaging demonstrates striatal shrinkage in magnetic resonance images and a reduced brain glucose metabolism in high-resolution fluor-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography studies. This model allows longitudinal in vivo imaging studies and is therefore ideally suited for the evaluation of novel therapeutic approaches such as neurotransplantation."}
{"id": "12611746", "title": "Donepezil HCl (E2020) maintains functional brain activity in patients with Alzheimer disease: results of a 24-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.", "content": "Donepezil HCl (E2020) maintains functional brain activity in patients with Alzheimer disease: results of a 24-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The authors evaluated the effects of donepezil (10 mg/day) versus placebo on brain glucose metabolism. This was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, 24-week pilot study in 28 patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease (AD). Functional brain activity was quantified by measuring average glucose metabolism in an axial brain slice and regional brain glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography. At Week 24, relative to the pons metabolic rate, mean brain glucose metabolism in an axial slice at the level of the striatum was maintained within 0.5% of mean baseline levels for donepezil-treated patients, whereas it declined by an average of 10.4% in placebo-treated patients. This observation was confirmed by an analysis of differences in the mean slopes of glucose metabolism in the striatal slice in donepezil- and placebo-treated patients during the 24-week period. Significant treatment differences at Week 24 favoring donepezil for the mean percentage change from baseline in regional brain glucose metabolism were observed in four predefined regions of interest: the right parietal lobe 1, left temporal lobe 2, right frontal lobe 2, and left frontal lobe 2. Placebo-treated patients with AD show a decline in functional brain activity, relative to the pons, in several regions, and treatment with donepezil may slow this decline."}
{"id": "12611744", "title": "Imaging-based measures of disease progression in clinical trials of disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Imaging-based measures of disease progression in clinical trials of disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer disease. The authors review and assess imaging-based strategies for measuring the rate of progression of Alzheimer disease (AD). Such techniques may be useful in addition to the behavioral instruments typically used in these studies and may be more sensitive to treatment-related change. MEDLINE searches obtained relevant published literature. Articles were reviewed with particular attention to assessments of rate of disease progression and the effects of investigational drugs. Authors studied a variety of techniques, including volumetric magnetic resonance imaging, functional MRI, fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, and several target-specific radiopharmaceuticals. In cross-sectional as well as small longitudinal trials, many of these show promise not only in diagnosis, but also as measures of disease progression. The effects of drugs that provide symptomatic relief on these measures have not been fully characterized. Even less is known about the effects of investigational drugs that may slow disease progression. Several neuroimaging techniques have been studied that could improve the ability of clinical trials to quantify the rate of progression of AD. Clinical trials of investigational drugs would benefit from more systematic validation of image-based outcome measures. Several choices of imaging techniques are available. An understanding of the relationship between a statistically significant effect size in an imaging marker and a clinically significant change in rate of disease progression will require additional studies."}
{"id": "12605357", "title": "Neuroimaging in cerebrovascular disorders: measurement of cerebral physiology after stroke and assessment of stroke recovery.", "content": "Neuroimaging in cerebrovascular disorders: measurement of cerebral physiology after stroke and assessment of stroke recovery. Nuclear medicine imaging can play an important role in the diagnosis of stroke risk, the differential diagnosis of vascular and parenchymal cerebral abnormalities, and the understanding and management of poststroke recovery. Radionuclide brain-imaging methods can assess hemodynamic, vascular, and metabolic status before and after stroke. Several techniques, including vasodilatory stress imaging with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), oxygen extraction methods with positron emission tomography (PET), and spectroscopic imaging with magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging, offer ways to distinguish vascular from parenchymal dysfunction and to determine whether any observed abnormalities in cerebral blood flow are primary or secondary disease manifestations. The value of radionuclide imaging in assessing the efficacy of several interventional surgical procedures is presented. Data from several imaging modalities bearing on the controversial issue of luxury perfusion and reperfusion injury are analyzed, including some of the discrepancies between animal and human clinical data. Imaging evidence for white matter disease and microangiopathy is analyzed, including a quantitative rCBF pattern analysis that distinguishes between typical Alzheimer's disease and microangiopathy by using multivariate analysis of variance curve profile analysis, which shows results of significant differences in the circumferential cortical blood flow profiles at P =.01. Microangiopathy showed rCBF reduction in the frontal and frontotemporal regions as compared with the more typical reduction in posterior temporal-parietal rCBF diminution characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Several functional neuroimaging approaches to the study of cerebral poststroke reorganization are analyzed in the context of 2 major models of recovery: the resolution of diaschisis and reorganization in spared brain. Research on these issues is presented with SPECT, PET, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Data show how standard structural magnetic resonance imaging, (99m)Tc hexamethylpropylene amine oxime SPECT, PET imaging, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy can be used to identify the extent of permanent damage versus penumbral and remote effects of a stroke. The results of the analysis of the pure-diaschisis model show a high correlation between the rCBF brain SPECT defect volume in the cortex and the magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) change in the white matter. There is a statistically significant positive correlation between the 2 (P <.01; r(2) = 0.94). The increased creatine/N-acetyl aspartate and reduced rCBF are proposed to be due to an increase in the white matter creatine component due to diaschisis and the repair mechanisms associated with increased astrocytosis, in addition to a reduction of N-acetyl aspartate in diaschitic white matter. Xenon-133 dynamic SPECT is shown to be a quantitative and sensitive measure of cerebrovascular status and hemodynamic constraints in both spared and affected brain, providing evidence for reorganization and cerebral plasticity. Fluorine-18 PET and (31)P spectroscopic imaging data show reorganizational changes in the contralesional hemisphere after stroke. The phosphocreatine-adenosine triphosphate ratio in the contralesional hemisphere was 38% +/- 17% higher than in the ipsilateral hemisphere. The phosphocreatine-adenosine triphosphate ratio was highly correlated (r = 0.88, P <.05) with increasing (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake. These results showed that there is a parallel change in glucose metabolism and high-energy phosphate metabolism associated with poststroke recovery that is proposed to be due to cerebral reorganization in the contralateral premotor cortex. The value of these results on rehabilitation strategy, including possible criteria for the use of facilitatory versus compensatory approaches, is analyzed."}
{"id": "12603252", "title": "A critical discussion of the role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "A critical discussion of the role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment. In this paper, the current neuroimaging literature is reviewed with regard to characteristic findings in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Particular attention is drawn to the possible value of neuroimaging modalities in the prediction and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). First, the potential contribution of neuroimaging to an early, preclinical diagnosis of degenerative disorders is discussed at the background of our knowledge about the pathogenesis of AD. Second, relevant neuroimaging studies focusing on MCI are explored and summarized. Neuroimaging studies were found through Medline search and by systematically checking through the bibliographies of relevant articles. Structural volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET)/single photon emission tomography (SPECT) are currently the most commonly used neuroimaging modalities in studies focusing on MCI. There were considerable variations in demographical and clinical characteristics across studies. However, significant hippocampal and entorhinal cortex volume reductions were consistently found in subjects with MCI as compared with cognitively unimpaired controls. While hippocampal and entorhinal cortex atrophy in subjects with MCI are also well-established risk factors for the development of AD, these measures cannot be regarded as being of high predictive value in an individual case. Evidence for other typical neuroimaging changes in MCI is still scarce. In PET and SPECT studies, reduced blood flow and/or glucose metabolism in temporoparietal association areas, posterior cingulate and hippocampus were associated with a higher risk of progressive cognitive decline in MCI. In quantitative electroencephalogram (QEEG), low beta, high theta, low alpha and slowed mean frequency were associated with development of dementia. Existing studies suggest that neuroimaging measures have the potential to become valuable tools in the early diagnosis of AD. To establish their value in routine use, larger studies, preferably with long prospective follow-up are needed."}
{"id": "12597083", "title": "Effects of Alzheimer's disease on the recognition of novel versus familiar words: neuropsychological and clinico-metabolic data.", "content": "Effects of Alzheimer's disease on the recognition of novel versus familiar words: neuropsychological and clinico-metabolic data. This study explored recognition memory performance for novel versus familiar words in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and normal controls (NCs), using an adaptation of E. Tulving and N. Kroll's (1995) procedure. Results showed that both groups exhibited more hits and more false alarms for familiar than for novel words. The groups did not differ in the recognition of familiar words, reflecting preserved familiarity processes in AD. However, AD patients made more false alarms than NCs in the recognition of novel words, reflecting impairment of recollection processes in AD. A positron emission tomography analysis of clinico-metabolic correlations in AD patients showed a correlation between recognition of novel words and right hippocampal activity, whereas recognition of familiar words was more related to metabolic activity in the left posterior orbitofrontal cortex."}
{"id": "12589881", "title": "Neural correlates of clinical symptoms and cognitive dysfunctions in obsessive-compulsive disorder.", "content": "Neural correlates of clinical symptoms and cognitive dysfunctions in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Although results from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies have postulated the involvement of the frontal lobe and the subcortical brain regions in the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), neuroimaging studies have provided little evidence that cognitive abnormalities in patients with OCD are related to dysfunctions in these areas. This study was designed to determine whether the clinical features and cognitive deficits of OCD might be taken to reflect frontal-subcortical dysfunction. Fourteen patients with OCD and 14 case-matched normal subjects completed clinical and cognitive evaluation, including four sets of neuropsychological tests that assessed the executive functions and visual memory. Cerebral glucose metabolic rates were measured by using positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose. Behavioral and PET data were analyzed using statistical parametric mapping for group differences and behavioral-metabolic correlates. The right orbitofrontal cortex showed increased metabolic activity and the left parieto-occipital junction showed decreased metabolic activity in patients. Metabolism in the right hippocampus, the left putamen and the right parietal region was associated with the severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Correlations between metabolic rates and neuropsychological test scores in the prefrontal cortex and the putamen occurred only in the patient group. These results suggest that patients with OCD have distinct features of brain metabolic activities for performing cognitive tasks as well as presenting obsessive-compulsive symptoms. In particular, the frontal-subcortical circuits might mediate not only symptomatic expression but also cognitive expression in patients with OCD."}
{"id": "12589106", "title": "A novel mutation (C67Y)in the NOTCH3 gene in a Korean CADASIL patient.", "content": "A novel mutation (C67Y)in the NOTCH3 gene in a Korean CADASIL patient. We report a 52-yr-old Korean woman with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) whose diagnosis was confirmed by skin biopsy and the presence of a novel mutation in the NOTCH3 gene. The patient's clinical features were rather unusual in that 1) clinical presentations were only two episodes of stroke and mild dementia unaccompanied by mood disturbances or migraine, and 2) there was no family history. Brain MRI showed T2 hyperintensities in both temporal pole areas in line with the recent suggestion by O'Sullivan et al. that the abnormality could be a radiologic marker of CADASIL. FDG-PET also showed a hypometabolism in the temporal pole areas with an abnormal finding on MRI in addition to the hypometabolism in cortical and subcortical regions. We could learn from this case that CADASIL may be included in the differential diagnoses in patients with vascular dementia associated with a small vessel disease, even in the absence of a family history, especially when there are no known stroke risk factors and when the MRI shows T2 hyperintensity in the temporal pole regions."}
{"id": "12588917", "title": "A study of persistent post-concussion symptoms in mild head trauma using positron emission tomography.", "content": "A study of persistent post-concussion symptoms in mild head trauma using positron emission tomography. Complaints of persistent cognitive deficits following mild head trauma are often uncorroborated by structural brain imaging and neuropsychological examination. To investigate, using positron emission tomography (PET), the in vivo changes in regional cerebral uptake of 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with persistent symptoms following mild head trauma. Five patients with mild head trauma and five age and education matched healthy controls were imaged using FDG-PET to measure differences in resting regional cerebral glucose metabolism. Oxygen-15 labelled water (H(2)(15)O)-PET was also used to measure group differences in rCBF changes during a spatial working memory task. In addition, neuropsychological testing and self report of dysexecutive function and post-concussion symptoms were acquired to characterise the sample. There was no difference between patients and controls in normalised regional cerebral FDG uptake in the resting state in frontal and temporal regions selected a priori. However, during the spatial working memory task, patients had a smaller increase in rCBF than controls in the right prefrontal cortex. Persistent post-concussive symptoms may not be associated with resting state hypometabolism. A cognitive challenge may be necessary to detect cerebral changes associated with mild head trauma."}
{"id": "12566775", "title": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in eclampsia: a new finding in two cases.", "content": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in eclampsia: a new finding in two cases. The pathophysiology of the reversible neurological manifestation in eclamptic women remains unclear. We report on 2 women with eclampsia who were repetitively examined by (1) transcranial Doppler (TCD), (2) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including T1- and T2-weighted images, fluid attenuated inversion recovery sequence, dynamic susceptibility-weighted perfusion imaging and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and (3) (18)fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). In both cases repetitive TCD revealed no signs of vasospasm; the same was true for MRA. MRI perfusion imaging showed completely homogenous cerebral blood flow in both cases. In the initial phase T2-weighted images revealed hyperintensities in both patients (predominantly bilateral frontal and parietal in 1 and in the temporo-occipital subcortex and the basal ganglia in the other). FDG-PET showed inhomogeneous glucose metabolism (GM) in both patients. Primary increased glucose utilization in the hyperintense T2-weighted areas as well as an attenuated GM parieto-occipital were observed in the 1st case; a high GM was found bilaterally in the basal ganglia and an attenuated one in the occipital cortex in the 2nd. In both cases MRI, and FDG-PET normalized within 3 weeks. These case reports document an altered cerebral GM in the presence of homogenous perfusion in eclamptic women. The high GM may be explained by a decoupling of cerebral perfusion and GM, possibly indicating an increased neuronal activity. The attenuation of the GM is most probably due to a deafferentation of cortical neurons."}
{"id": "12562582", "title": "Delusional thoughts and regional frontal/temporal cortex metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Delusional thoughts and regional frontal/temporal cortex metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Delusional thoughts are common in patients with Alzheimer's disease and contribute prominently to morbidity. The pathophysiologic underpinnings for delusions in Alzheimer's disease are not well understood. In this study the authors examined the relationship between delusional thoughts and regional cortical metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Twenty-five patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were included. None was taking psychotropic medication. Severity of delusions and other neuropsychiatric symptoms was assessed by using a semistructured interview and the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale just before the imaging procedure. [(18)F]Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography was used to measure resting cerebral glucose metabolic rates in the cortical lobes and in anatomically defined subregions of the frontal and temporal cortexes. A linear regression model, controlling for the effects of cognitive deficits, revealed a significant relationship between severity of delusional thought and the metabolic rates in three frontal regions: the right superior dorsolateral frontal cortex (Brodmann's area 8), the right inferior frontal pole (Brodmann's area 10), and the right lateral orbitofrontal region (Brodmann's area 47). Bivariate partial correlation analysis indicated that severity of delusions was associated with hypometabolism in additional prefrontal and anterior cingulate regions. Robust relationships with metabolism in regions of the temporal cortex were not apparent. Dysmetabolism in specific regions of the right prefrontal cortex may be associated with delusional thought in Alzheimer's disease. Delusions appear to reflect the pathophysiologic state of particular cortical regions. Activity across distributed neuronal networks and the specific content of delusional thoughts may modulate these relationships."}
{"id": "12556576", "title": "Influence of the apolipoprotein E type 4 allele on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Influence of the apolipoprotein E type 4 allele on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease patients. It is still unclear whether apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 (APOE E4) influences the cerebral glucose metabolism abnormalities found in Alzheimer's disease (AD), although APOE E4 is a well-known risk factor for AD. [(18)F]Fluorodeoxyglucose PET was conducted in patients with very mild (n=17), mild (n=27), and moderate-to-severe (n=19) AD. The presence of APOE E4 was associated with greater reduction of glucose metabolism in the left inferior temporal region in very mild AD but neither in mild nor in moderate-to-severe AD. These findings favor the hypothesis that APOE E4 is related mainly to the development of AD, not to its progression."}
{"id": "12483414", "title": "Multitracer study with positron emission tomography in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Multitracer study with positron emission tomography in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. During the period February 1997 to April 2000, 15 patients with clinical symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) were referred to Uppsala University PET Centre. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed to detect characteristic signs of the disease, e.g. neuronal death and/or astrocytosis in the brain. The examinations were performed in one session starting with oxygen-15 labelled water scan to measure regional cerebral blood flow, followed by imaging with the monoamine oxidase B inhibitor N-[(11)C-methyl]- L-deuterodeprenyl (DED) to assess astrocytosis in the brain and finally imaging with fluor-18 2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to assess regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMR(glu)) [corrected]. Nine of the patients fulfilled the clinical criteria of probable CJD. In eight of them, FDG and DED imaging revealed, in comparison with normal controls, a typical pattern characterized by a pronounced regional decrease (<2SD) in glucose brain metabolism, indicative of neuronal dysfunction; this was accompanied by a similar increase (>2SD) in DED binding, indicating astrocytosis. These changes were most pronounced in the cerebellum and the frontal, occipital and parietal cortices, whereas the pons, the thalamus and the putamen were less affected and the temporal cortex appeared unaffected. The cerebral blood flow showed a pattern similar to that observed with FDG. In the ninth patient, analysis with DED was not possible. The diagnosis of definite CJD according to international consensus criteria was confirmed in six of these patients. In one patient with probable CJD, protease-resistant prion protein (PrPres) could not be demonstrated. In two patients with probable CJD, autopsy was not allowed. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, performed in four and seven of these nine patients respectively, showed unspecific, mainly atrophic changes. In six other patients, the PET examinations gave a different pattern. In three of them, high rCMR(glu) was noticed in parts of the brain, particularly in the temporal lobes and basal ganglia, which could suggest encephalitis. One of the patients had Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome, one had paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis and the third recovered spontaneously. In the other three patients, the DED binding was normal despite a hypometabolic glucose pattern. In conclusion, the PET findings obtained using DED and FDG paralleled neuropathological findings indicating neuronal dysfunction and astrocytosis, changes that are found in CJD."}
{"id": "12809079", "title": "Electroencephalography and glucose metabolism (positron-emission tomography) in dementing disorders.", "content": "Electroencephalography and glucose metabolism (positron-emission tomography) in dementing disorders."}
{"id": "12636180", "title": "The ABC of Alzheimer's disease: cognitive changes and their management in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.", "content": "The ABC of Alzheimer's disease: cognitive changes and their management in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. Cognitive decline, commonly first recognized as memory impairment, is a typical feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuropathological changes in the cerebral cortex and limbic system lead to deficits in learning, memory, language, and visuospatial skills. The precise nature of cognitive dysfunction reflects the distribution of pathological changes in AD. These will vary along the disease severity continuum and may also depend on where the disease sits in the spectrum of dementia. For example, AD-related disorders such as Lewy body dementia (LBD) and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) also show symptoms of cognitive decline and share several pathological features, including degeneration of cortical cholinergic and striatal dopaminergic neurons. In vascular dementia (VaD), there is often an unequal distribution of cognitive deficit, with severe impairment in some functions and relative sparing of others. Cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors, which help restore acetylcholine levels in the brain, are licensed for the symptomatic treatment of AD and have shown additional benefit in related dementias. Physiological correlates of cholinergic function/dysfunction in the brain include regional cerebral blood flow, glucose metabolism, and cerebrospinal fluid levels of ChE enzymes. These variables represent valuable markers of the clinical efficacy of ChE inhibitors. However, direct assessment of cognitive improvement, stabilization or decline is usually considered the key efficacy parameter in clinical studies of ChE inhibitors in AD and related dementias. Large-scale, placebo-controlled clinical studies of ChE inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy in treating the cognitive impairments associated with AD. Randomized comparative studies of ChE inhibitors are now under way to directly compare symptomatic efficacy and effects on disease progression. Clinical trial data of the cognitive effects of ChE inhibitors in AD, LBD, PDD, and VaD are discussed in detail in this article. The benefits of long-term treatment on symptomatic improvement in cognition and further potential disease-modifying effects are highlighted."}
{"id": "12593416", "title": "Clinical application of positron emission tomography for diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Clinical application of positron emission tomography for diagnosis of dementia. Clinical applications of PET studies for dementia are reviewed in this paper. At the mild and moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), glucose metabolism is reduced not only in the parietotemporal region but also in the posterior cingulate and precuneus. At the advanced stage of AD, there is also a metabolic reduction in the frontal region. In AD patients, glucose metabolism is relatively preserved in the pons, sensorimotor cortices, primary visual cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus and cerebellum. In patients with dementia with Lewy bodies, glucose metabolism in the primary visual cortices is reduced, and this reduction appears to be associated with the reduction pattern in AD patients. In patients with frontotemporal dementia, reduced metabolism in the frontotemporal region is the main feature of this disease, but reduced metabolism in the basal ganglia, and/or parietal metabolic reduction can be associated with the frontotemporal reduction. When corticobasal degeneration is associated with dementia, the reduction pattern of dementia is similar to the reduction pattern in AD and the hallmarks of diagnosing corticobasal degeneration associated with dementia are a reduced metabolism in the primary sensorimotor region and/or basal ganglia and an asymmetric reduction in the two hemispheres. FDG-PET is a very useful tool for the diagnosis of early AD and for the differential diagnosis of dementia. I also describe clinical applications of PET for the diagnosis of dementia in Japan."}
{"id": "12547232", "title": "Increased lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction in aceruloplasminemia brains.", "content": "Increased lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction in aceruloplasminemia brains. Aceruloplasminemia is characterized by iron accumulation in the brain as well as in visceral organs, due to the absence of ceruloplasmin ferroxidase activity. The neurological symptoms, which include involuntary movements, ataxia, and dementia, reflect the sites of iron deposition. The unique involvement of the central nervous system distinguishes aceruloplasminemia from other inherited and acquired iron storage disorders. Excess iron functions as a potent catalyst of biologic oxidation. An increased iron concentration was associated with increased lipid peroxidation in the brains of three aceruloplasminemia patients. Positron emission tomography showed brain glucose and oxygen hypometabolism. Enzyme activities in the mitochondrial respiratory chain of the basal ganglia were reduced to about 50 and 43%, respectively, for complexes I and IV. Those of the cerebral and cerebellar cortices also were decreased approximately 62 and 65%. These findings suggest that iron-mediated free radicals may contribute to neuronal cell damage through increased lipid peroxidation and the impairment of mitochondrial energy metabolism in aceruloplasminemia brains."}
{"id": "12502015", "title": "Neuroanatomical correlates of low body weight in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study.", "content": "Neuroanatomical correlates of low body weight in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study. Weight loss is a common problem in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and this might be associated with an increased risk for mortality. Recent evidences have suggested that certain brain dysfunctions may result in impaired nutritional status in AD patients. However, the mechanism of body weight loss in AD remains enigmatic. To investigate a possible association between low body weight and regional brain dysfunction, the authors conducted the correlational analysis of body mass index (BMI) with regional brain glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). Twenty-seven patients with probable AD were divided into two groups: the low BMI group and the normal BMI group. Regional brain glucose metabolic ratios were calculated using the cerebellar hemisphere as a reference region. Comparisons were made of regional brain metabolic ratios between the low BMI group and the normal BMI group. Correlations of the glucose metabolic ratio with BMI were also assessed in all patients with AD. In the comparison between the two groups, glucose metabolic ratio in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) was significantly lower in the low BMI group, whereas no significant differences were found in all the other brain regions. Furthermore, regional glucose metabolism in the ACC had a significant and positive correlation with BMI (r=.450, P=.018). After adjustment for age, gender and disease duration, regional glucose metabolism in the ACC was independently associated with BMI. Our findings suggest that the ACC may be preferentially involved in the regulation of nutritional status in AD patients, and provides a new insight into developing strategies for prevention and treatment of undernutritional demented patients."}
{"id": "12489916", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: metabolism, neurochemistry, and morphology.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: metabolism, neurochemistry, and morphology. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is recognized as one of the most common forms of neurodegenerative dementia. Neuroimaging contributes to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of DLB by examining alterations in brain metabolism, neurochemisty, and morphology in living patients. Neuroimaging can provide objective and quantifiable antemortem markers for the presence of and the progression of DLB and permits differentiation from other dementias. This article reviews current neuroimaging findings in DLB with particular attention to occipital hypometabolism, dopaminergic and cholinergic deficits, and medial temporal lobe atrophy as measured by positron emission tomography, single-photon emission computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "12480793", "title": "Treatment of vascular dementia.", "content": "Treatment of vascular dementia. We report positron emission tomography (PET) findings of our patients with vascular dementia, asymptomatic cerebral infarction, and chronic cerebral circulatory insufficiency. According to the PET studies, it was suggested that frontal lobe hypoperfusion and hypometabolism play important roles in dementia caused by cerebral infarctions. It was also suggested that patients with subjective complaints associated with asymptomatic strokes and patients with chronic cerebral circulatory insufficiency already exhibited decreased cerebral circulation. Since therapeutic approaches to vascular dementia after its development are limited, active control of risk factors and prevention of recurrent stroke during the developmental process of vascular dementia are important. We review recent situations in prevention and treatment of vascular dementia."}
{"id": "12480778", "title": "Hemodynamic aspects of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hemodynamic aspects of Alzheimer's disease. Neuroradiological functional imaging techniques demonstrate the patterns of hypoperfusion and hypometabolism that are thought to be useful in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from other dementing disorders. Besides the distribution patterns of perfusion or energy metabolism, vascular transit time (VTT), vascular reactivity (VR), and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF), which can be measured with positron emission tomography (PET), provide hemodynamic aspects of brain pathophysiology. In order to evaluate the hemodynamic features of AD, PET studies were carried out in 20 patients with probable AD and 20 patients with vascular dementia (VaD). The PET findings were not included in their diagnostic process of AD. Using oxygen-15-labeled compounds, cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)), OEF, cerebral blood volume, and VTT were measured quantitatively during resting state. To evaluate VR, CBF was also measured during CO(2) inhalation. There was a significant increase in OEF in and around the parietotemporal cortices, but both VTT and VR were well preserved in patients with AD. By contrast, VR was markedly depressed and VTT was mildly prolonged in patients with VaD. Thus, from the hemodynamic point of view, the preservation of vascular reserve may be a distinct difference between AD and VaD. Furthermore, this indicates a hemodynamic integrity of the vasculature in the level of arterioles in AD."}
{"id": "12480743", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in vascular dementia evaluated by positron emission tomography: importance of frontal lobe hypoperfusion and hypometabolism.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in vascular dementia evaluated by positron emission tomography: importance of frontal lobe hypoperfusion and hypometabolism."}
{"id": "12470805", "title": "Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's dementia: distinct but overlapping entities.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's dementia: distinct but overlapping entities. Much of the controversy about the \"amyloid cascade hypothesis\" may reflect unrecognized differences in the use of language, including the use of the word \"cause.\" This commentary proposes that the term Alzheimer disease refer to the neuropathological entity and the term Alzheimer dementia to clinical dementia in people who also have Alzheimer neuropathology. The ultimate causes of Alzheimer disease are proposed to be aging, environmental stresses, and genetic predispositions. The fundamental cause of Alzheimer dementia is proposed to be Alzheimer disease, i.e. the neurobiological abnormalities in Alzheimer brain. The neurobiology of Alzheimer disease includes changes that may initially be adaptive but can become excessive and thereby harmful; they include increased expression of APP with accumulation of potentially damaging peptides such as Abeta, inflammation, and increased ROS activity. The neurobiological abnormality that is the proximate cause of Alzheimer dementia appears to be decreases in cerebral metabolic rate. Decreased metabolism occurs not only in this but in essentially all dementias, and impairing brain metabolism induces neuropsychological deficits characteristic of dementias. The immediate cause of Alzheimer dementia is proposed to be deficiencies in signaling, both intracellular and intercellular (neurotransmission), that follow directly from the decrease in cerebrometabolic rate."}
{"id": "12465076", "title": "An imaging study of parkinsonism among African-Caribbean and Indian London communities.", "content": "An imaging study of parkinsonism among African-Caribbean and Indian London communities. We previously reported on 131 parkinsonian patients of African-Caribbean and Indian origin attending movement disorders clinics in six London Hospitals, of whom approximately 20% manifested atypical parkinsonism with a late-onset, akinetic-rigid predominant syndrome, postural instability and minimal resting tremor refractory to levodopa therapy and dopamine agonists (see Hu et al., Neurology 2000;54[Suppl.3]: A188 and Hu et al., Mov Disord 2000;15[Suppl.3]:S212). To better elucidate the phenotype of these atypical patients (18)FDG/(18)F-dopa positron emission tomography (PET) were performed in a subgroup to look for cortical and striatal metabolic changes suggestive of multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), or dementia with Lewy bodies. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) rating of cerebral vascular lesion load, putaminal atrophy, and neuropsychological testing were also performed. Discriminant function analysis of (18)F-dopa/(18)FDG striatal metabolism in 43 patients failed to separate atypical ethnic minority from typical Caucasian Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Additionally, atypical Indian and African-Caribbean patients did not show cortical reductions in glucose metabolism suggestive of PSP, CBD, or DLB. Cerebral vascular lesion load rated in these patients did not differ between atypical and typical PD groups, and none of the atypical patients had MRI changes suggestive of MSA or PSP. Our results suggest the atypical parkinsonian phenotype seen in African-Caribbean and Indian patients represents a levodopa-refractory form of PD separate from MSA or PSP in most patients."}
{"id": "12458405", "title": "Functional brain imaging in the dementias: role in early detection, differential diagnosis, and longitudinal studies.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in the dementias: role in early detection, differential diagnosis, and longitudinal studies. This review considers the role of functional brain imaging techniques in the dementias. The substantial assistance that especially single-photon emission tomography and positron emission tomography can play in the initial diagnosis of dementia and in the differential diagnosis of the specific dementing disorder is discussed. These techniques alone essentially match the sensitivity and specificity of clinical diagnoses in distinguishing Alzheimer's dementia (AD) from age-matched controls, from frontal lobe dementia and vascular dementia, and even from Lewy body dementia. Newer analytic techniques such as voxel-based correlational analyses and discriminant function analyses enhance the power of such differential diagnoses. Functional brain imaging techniques can also significantly assist in patient screening for clinical trials. The correlation of the observed deficits with specific patterns of cognitive abnormalities permits enhanced patient management and treatment planning and improved longitudinal assessment of outcome. It is also noteworthy that the classic abnormalities of temporoparietal and posterior cingulate hypoperfusion or hypometabolism appear to be present prior to symptom onset. These abnormalities predict progression to AD in the presence of the earliest of symptoms, and are present even in cognitively normal but at-risk subjects, with a severity proportional to the risk status. Even greater predictive ability for progression to AD is obtained by combining measures of perfusion or metabolism with risk factors, tau protein levels, hippocampal N-Acetyl aspartate concentrations, or hippocampal volume measures."}
{"id": "12433266", "title": "The natural history of the syndrome of primary progressive freezing gait.", "content": "The natural history of the syndrome of primary progressive freezing gait. Primary progressive freezing gait disorder is considered to be a distinct clinical entity that manifests predominantly as a progressive freezing gait disorder without accompanying abnormalities. However, confusion remains about its clinical presentation, natural history, and classification. To examine the natural history, clinical and brain imaging characteristics, and response to dopaminergic medications of primary progressive freezing gait (PPFG) disorder. Review of medical records, videotape examinations, and computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and results of neurological evaluations, including the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, in patients with PPFG. Thirty patients (16 male) were diagnosed as having PPFG (mean age at onset, 72.2 years; mean duration of disease, 5 years). Gait disorder was the initial complaint in 27 patients. Freezing gait was the initial manifestation in 18 and was present within the first year in 27. Natural history included 25 patients falling within 3 years of onset, 20 experiencing retropulsion within 4 years, and 16 requiring wheelchairs by 5 years. On neurological examination, bradykinesia was present in 29 patients, muscle rigidity in 15, and postural tremor in 11. Other features included speech abnormalities in 10, hyperreflexia without clonus in 17, and dementia in 8. Extraocular movement abnormalities and dysphagia were rare. All 30 patients were treated with levodopa with minimal effect. Eighteen were treated with a dopamine agonist with no notable effect. Of the 23 patients with magnetic resonance imaging scans, results were normal in 9 and included minor nonspecific changes in 14. The computed tomographic scans obtained in 12 patients showed similar results. One patient underwent fluorine F ((18)F) labeled deoxyglucose positron emission tomography, which showed mild reduction in medial frontal glucose metabolism. Primary progressive freezing gait appears to be a clinically distinct progressive neurological disorder that primarily affects gait, initially resulting in freezing and later in postural instability. A wheelchair-bound state often develops within 5 years. It is accompanied by other parkinsonian features, particularly bradykinesia, but is unresponsive to dopaminergic medications. It progresses in a fairly stereotyped manner. Primary progressive freezing gait disorder should be a unifying term for this disorder that has gone by many names in the literature and should be classified as a Parkinson-plus disorder."}
{"id": "12417640", "title": "Correlations between visual recognition memory and neocortical and hippocampal glucose metabolism after bilateral rhinal cortex lesions in the baboon: implications for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Correlations between visual recognition memory and neocortical and hippocampal glucose metabolism after bilateral rhinal cortex lesions in the baboon: implications for Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the rhinal cortex is the area earliest and most affected by neurofibrillary tangles, and the degree of temporoparietal glucose hypometabolism and rhinal cortex atrophy are both correlated with dementia severity. In monkeys, damage to the rhinal cortex leads to severe impairment in declarative memory, which is also affected preferentially in early AD. To investigate the contribution of rhinal alterations to the interrelationships between cerebral hypometabolism and declarative memory impairment observed in AD, we studied the effects of excitotoxic bilateral rhinal lesions in baboons on cerebral glucose consumption (CMRglc) as measured by positron emission tomography and performance on a visual recognition memory task as assessed in parallel by a delayed nonmatching-to-sample task. We reported previously that these rhinal lesions induce both a long-lasting hypometabolism in several remote brain regions (Meguro et al., 1999) and impaired memory performance (Chavoix et al., 2002). The present analysis indicates that across lesioned and sham baboons, memory scores were significantly positively correlated (p < 0.05; Spearman) with concomitant CMRglc values of several brain areas, such as neocortical associative and posterior hippocampal regions. These findings, reminiscent of those reported in AD, suggest that the neurodegenerative process that affects the rhinal cortex in early AD plays a crucial role in the pattern of brain hypometabolism and consequently in the declarative memory impairments characteristic of this disease."}
{"id": "12417392", "title": "Functional neuroimaging in Alzheimer's type dementia.", "content": "Functional neuroimaging in Alzheimer's type dementia. This article aims to review the role of the functional neuroimaging modality of positron emission tomography (PET) in the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinical diagnosis in the early disease stages is difficult and treatments are emerging which rather than reversing structural damage are likely to slow or halt the disease process. While currently no routine diagnostic test confirms AD presence, imaging techniques are an important expanding field in biological neuropsychiatry. The challenge for neuroimaging methods is to achieve high specificity and sensitivity in early disease stages. Glucose metabolic PET imaging with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) has the potential to detect very early neocortical dysfunction before even abnormal neuropsychological testing is obtainable. The implications are for the identification of minimally symptomatic patients that could benefit most from treatment strategies, as well as the monitoring of treatment response and possible therapeutic deceleration of the disease. FDG PET correlates with AD neuropathology and is able to indicate disease progression or severity, meeting both functional neuroimaging prerequisites in diagnosing AD. A combination of functional neuroimaging with different techniques should be able to provide highest diagnostic specificity in diagnosing dementia. This may even lead to a new classification of dementias according to differences in the causative aetiology."}
{"id": "12404764", "title": "[Analysis using positron emission topography (PET) in hemiparetic patients with chronic subdural hematoma].", "content": "[Analysis using positron emission topography (PET) in hemiparetic patients with chronic subdural hematoma]. Chronic subdural hematoma (CSH) is a disease caused by minor head trauma and can be cured by surgical treatment. It remains unclear why CSH can cause neurologic dysfunction such as hemiparesis, although some reports describe the contribution of impaired cerebral blood flow (CBF) and oxygen metabolism of patients with CSH. We studied five hemiparetic patients with unilateral CSH using positron emission tomography (PET). Before the operation, both the regional CBF (rCBF) and regional cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (rCMRO2) were observed to have decreased slightly in the motor cortex and the lentiform nucleus on the bilateral side. However, regional oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF), regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) and cerebral vascular response (CVR) in the same regions were normal. In the thalamus, no significant findings were observed. Although rCBF and rCMRO2 recovered to within normal range in the motor cortex and lentiform nucleus on the bilateral side by four weeks after the the operation, hemiparesis improved in all the patients within 3 days after the operation. In conclusion, this study suggests that a circulatory disturbance in the motor cortex under the hematoma was not indicated as a definite cause that induced hemiparesis with CSH."}
{"id": "12395473", "title": "[Pathophysiology of cerebrovascular disorders: PET imaging of the brain].", "content": "[Pathophysiology of cerebrovascular disorders: PET imaging of the brain]. To understand the underlying mechanisms that occur during cerebral ischaemia and stroke one needs to assess the relationship between blood flow, oxygen and glucose metabolism, and other physiological processes as a function of the site of deficit, the time course of the tissue damage, and the etiology of the ischaemia. PET has already demonstrated its ability to provide in vivo biochemical and pathophysiological information. PET can provide the necessary understanding of the abnormal cellular biochemical processes that occur in response to perfusion insufficiencies in humans. The application of PET to cerebrovascular disease has provided information on temporal course of blood flow and volume, oxygen, and glucose utilization, as well as the respective extraction fractions for these substrates. Additionally, PET provides useful information on neurotransmission, by using receptor ligands one can measure the different receptor systems in the brain."}
{"id": "12382987", "title": "Memory-delineated subtypes of schizophrenia: relationship to clinical, neuroanatomical, and neurophysiological measures.", "content": "Memory-delineated subtypes of schizophrenia: relationship to clinical, neuroanatomical, and neurophysiological measures. Memory performance was examined in patients with schizophrenia to determine whether subgroups conforming to cortical and subcortical dementias could be identified and, if so, whether subgroups differed on clinical, neuroanatomical, and neurophysiological measures. A cluster analysis of California Verbal Learning Test performance classified patients into 3 subgroups. Two groups exhibited memory deficits consistent with the cortical-subcortical distinction, whereas 1 group was unimpaired. Cortical patients tended to be male, and they had earlier illness onset, reduced temporal lobe gray matter, and hypometabolism. Subcortical patients had ventricular enlargement and more negative symptoms. Unimpaired patients had fewer negative symptoms and dorsal medial prefrontal hypermetabolism. The authors conclude that categorizing patients on the basis of memory deficits may yield neurobiologically meaningful disease subtypes."}
{"id": "12368664", "title": "Brain glucose hypometabolism after perirhinal lesions in baboons: implications for Alzheimer disease and aging.", "content": "Brain glucose hypometabolism after perirhinal lesions in baboons: implications for Alzheimer disease and aging. The authors previously reported that excitotoxic lesions of both the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices in baboons induce remote neocortical and hippocampal hypometabolism reminiscent of that observed in Alzheimer disease (AD), suggesting that disconnection may play a role in AD. Because the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMR ) was preferentially correlated with perirhinal damage, the area first affected by neurofibrillary tangles in both AD and normal aging, the present series of experiments aimed at assessing the specific metabolic effects of perirhinal lesions. Using PET, CMR was measured before surgery and sequentially over the ensuing 10 months. Compared with sham-operated baboons, perirhinal lesions induced significant-albeit late and transient-CMR decreases in several brain regions, which significantly correlated with histologic damage for some of these regions. Among them, the temporal and hippocampal regions are metabolically affected after extensive rhinal lesions, in early AD, and aging, while the prefrontal region is affected in aging only. Furthermore, in contrast to AD and rhinal lesions, the posterior cingulate cortex was spared. Both the progressive but significant metabolic effects and specific hypometabolic pattern after perirhinal lesions were confirmed by direct comparisons with previous data obtained after combined lesions of both rhinal areas. Thus, although perirhinal damage appears in itself insufficient to induce sustained CMR decreases, it may contribute to the hypometabolic profile of both AD and normal aging, most likely with a stronger contribution in the latter."}
{"id": "12362416", "title": "Altered regional brain glucose metabolism in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: a pet study.", "content": "Altered regional brain glucose metabolism in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: a pet study. The basis for cognitive impairment in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is not well understood but may be related to abnormal expression of dystrophin in brain. The aim of this study was to determine whether regional brain glucose metabolism is altered in children with DMD and whether such metabolic disturbances are localized to regions shown to be normally rich in dystrophin expression. Ten boys (mean age, 11.8 years) with DMD and 17 normal adults as a control group (mean age, 27.6 years) underwent 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography (PET) and neuropsychological evaluation. The PET data were analyzed by statistical parametric mapping (SPM). The SPM analysis showed five clusters of decreased glucose metabolism in children with DMD, including the medial temporal structures and cerebellum bilaterally and the sensorimotor and lateral temporal cortex on the right side. At the voxel level, significant glucose hypometabolism was found in the right postcentral and middle temporal gyri, uncus, and VIIIB cerebellar lobule, as well as in the left hippocampal gyrus and cerebellar lobule. The neuropsychological profile of the DMD group revealed borderline nonverbal intellectual functioning, impaired manual dexterity bilaterally, borderline cognitive functioning, and internalizing behavioral difficulties. Our findings demonstrate region-specific hypometabolism, as well as cognitive and behavioral deficits in DMD children. As the regions showing hypometabolism on PET include those normally rich in dystrophin expression, it will be important to determine whether the hypometabolic regions also show cytoarchitectural abnormalities related to the lack of dystrophin."}
{"id": "12355885", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with progressive aphasia and dementia].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with progressive aphasia and dementia]. We report a 71-year-old woman showing rapidly progressive non-fluent aphasia and dementia accompanied by motor neuron disease (MND). There was no family history of dementia or motor neuron disease. There was 10 months history of dysarthria and dysphagia. On examination, she showed profound difficulty in articulation. Her comprehension was impaired in that she was unable to obey three-stage command. Her written language was also impaired with phonological spelling errors, syntactic errors, and perseveration. Neuroradiological investigations showed atrophic changes and hypoperfusion of left temporal and bilateral parietal region revealed by MRI and SPECT, respectively. Her subsequent decline was rapid. It might be likely that aphasia is much more common in dementia with bulbar MND than is currently recognized because bulbar palsy might mask the language disorder."}
{"id": "12296553", "title": "Medical imaging in neurological disorders.", "content": "Medical imaging in neurological disorders. Functional imaging is clinically useful in evaluating cerebrovascular disease, dementia, and presurgical localization of epileptic foci. Both PET and SPECT are complex technologies that must be performed carefully to yield interpretable images. SPECT and PET images can be very useful in detecting the changes in blood flow or glucose metabolism of epileptogenic tissues, although image interpretation in infants and young children must consider the differing types and levels of activity in the developing brain. PET and SPECT are being used to evaluate a new generation of antiparkinsonian medications aimed at slowing the course of the disease, rather than simply symptom abatement."}
{"id": "12271417", "title": "Value of (99m)Tc-ECD SPET for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Value of (99m)Tc-ECD SPET for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Despite improved diagnostic accuracy, differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) on the basis of clinical findings remains problematic. The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the utility of technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) single-photon emission tomography (SPET) as a potential tool for the diagnosis of DLB and discrimination from AD. Cerebral perfusion patterns detected by (99m)Tc-ECD SPET were compared in patients presenting with a probable diagnosis of DLB ( n=34) or AD ( n=28). Tracer distribution was quantified using the region of interest technique in eight symmetrical paired zones and expressed as a perfusion index (ratio of mean uptake in a brain region to that in the cerebellum). Comparison of findings in the DLB and AD groups demonstrated significant differences in mean perfusion indexes in the right occipital region ( P=0.004), left occipital region ( P=0.005) and left medial temporal region ( P=0.013). Mean perfusion indexes in the right and left occipital regions were lower in DLB than in AD patients. Conversely, the mean perfusion index in the left medial temporal region was lower in AD than in DLB patients. DLB was correctly identified in 22 patients (sensitivity, 65%) while AD was correctly identified in 20 patients (specificity, 71%). In the DLB group, right and left occipital perfusion indexes were 0.95 or more in all eight non-hallucinating patients, and bilateral occipital hypoperfusion was observed in 15 of the 26 patients with visual hallucinations (57.7%). To our knowledge, this is the first study in which (99m)Tc-ECD SPET has been used exclusively for the diagnosis of DLB. The results suggest that brain perfusion scintigraphy could be helpful in distinguishing DLB from AD if diagnosis based on clinical criteria alone is difficult. The findings also support a link between visual hallucinations and structural/functional changes in the occipital region in DLB patients."}
{"id": "12271401", "title": "In vivo neurochemistry with emission tomography and magnetic resonance spectroscopy: clinical applications.", "content": "In vivo neurochemistry with emission tomography and magnetic resonance spectroscopy: clinical applications. The assessment of neurochemical processes in vivo has received much attention in the past decade as techniques such as positron or single photon emission tomography (PET and SPET), and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) have become more available. With PET and SPET, basic processes, such as blood flow and oxygen or glucose metabolism, can be regionally assessed, along with more specific functions such as the production, release, and reuptake of neurotransmitters and their occupancy of specific receptors. At the same time, MRS can reveal changes in concentration of several hydrogenate compounds in the brain. All these methods have been extensively applied for research in neurology, and some applications have reached the clinical level, namely for the study of degenerative diseases, motor-neuron diseases, movement disorders, cerebrovascular diseases, and epilepsy. This article focuses on the most relevant information that can be obtained with these complementary techniques to help clinicians in the assessment of neurological diseases."}
{"id": "12242551", "title": "Prominent hypometabolism of the right temporoparietal and frontal cortex in two left-handed patients with primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Prominent hypometabolism of the right temporoparietal and frontal cortex in two left-handed patients with primary progressive aphasia. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is characterized by progressive deterioration of language function with relative preservation of other cognitive functions. Previous studies based on neuroimaging and histology point to predominantly left temporal pathology in PPA patients. Here we report two left-handed subjects with typical symptoms of the nonfluent form of PPA in whom 18F-FDG PET revealed an asymmetric right-hemispheric pattern of reduced glucose metabolism in the frontal and temporoparietal cortex. These findings support the hypothesis that PPA can be considered as a symptom complex rather than a disease entity."}
{"id": "12227833", "title": "Cingulate cortex hypoperfusion predicts Alzheimer's disease in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cingulate cortex hypoperfusion predicts Alzheimer's disease in mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) was recently described as a heterogeneous group with a variety of clinical outcomes and high risk to develop Alzheimer's disease (AD). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used to study the heterogeneity of MCI and to look for predictors of future development of AD. rCBF was investigated in 54 MCI subjects using Tc-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO). An automated analysis software (BRASS) was applied to analyze the relative blood flow (cerebellar ratios) of 24 cortical regions. After the baseline examination, the subjects were followed clinically for an average of two years. 17 subjects progressed to Alzheimer's disease (PMCI) and 37 subjects remained stable (SMCI). The baseline SPECT ratio values were compared between PMCI and SMCI. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was applied for the discrimination of the two subgroups at baseline. The conversion rate of MCI to AD was 13.7% per year. PMCI had a significantly decreased rCBF in the left posterior cingulate cortex, as compared to SMCI. Left posterior cingulate rCBF ratios were entered into a logistic regression model for ROC curve calculation. The area under the ROC curve was 74%-76%, which indicates an acceptable discrimination between PMCI and SMCI at baseline. A reduced relative blood flow of the posterior cingulate gyrus could be found at least two years before the patients met the clinical diagnostic criteria of AD."}
{"id": "12215880", "title": "[Alzheimer's dementia or cerebral toxoplasmosis? Case study of dementia following toxoplasmosis infection].", "content": "[Alzheimer's dementia or cerebral toxoplasmosis? Case study of dementia following toxoplasmosis infection]. Cerebral toxoplasmosis can lead to dementia in AIDS and in immunodeficient patients. We present a case study in which cerebral toxoplasmosis was associated with a dementia of Alzheimer type. Half a year to one year before the cognitive impairment began, the patient suffered a subacute infection of toxoplasmosis at the age of 56. Neuropsychological examination as well as MRI suggested a diagnosis of dementia with infectious genesis. However, serological tests showed only little evidence of infection. Since the results of the PET examination indicated changes in the glucose metabolism typical of Alzheimer's disease, we infer a comorbidity of cerebral toxoplasmosis and dementia of Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "12215596", "title": "Incidence of dementia after ischemic stroke: results of a longitudinal study.", "content": "Incidence of dementia after ischemic stroke: results of a longitudinal study. A number of cross-sectional epidemiological studies have reported that one fourth of elderly patients meet criteria for dementia 3 months after ischemic stroke, but few longitudinal studies of the incidence of dementia after stroke have been performed. We conducted the present study to investigate the incidence and clinical predictors of dementia after ischemic stroke. We administered neurological, neuropsychological, and functional assessments annually to 334 ischemic stroke patients (age, 70.4+/-7.5 years) and 241 stroke-free control subjects (age, 70.6+/-6.5 years), all of whom were nondemented in baseline examinations. We diagnosed incident dementia using modified Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Revised Third Edition criteria requiring deficits in memory and > or =2 additional cognitive domains, as well as functional impairment. The crude incidence rate of dementia was 8.49 cases per 100 person-years in the stroke cohort and 1.37 cases per 100 person-years in the control cohort. A Cox proportional-hazards analysis found that the relative risk (RR) of incident dementia associated with stroke was 3.83 (95% CI, 2.14 to 6.84), adjusting for demographic variables and baseline Mini-Mental State Examination score. Within the stroke cohort, intercurrent medical illnesses associated with cerebral hypoxia or ischemia were independently related to incident dementia (RR, 4.40; 95% CI, 2.20 to 8.85), adjusting for recurrent stroke, demographic variables, and baseline Mini-Mental State Examination score. The risk of incident dementia is high among patients with ischemic stroke, particularly in association with intercurrent medical illnesses that might cause cerebral hypoxia or ischemia, suggesting that cerebral hypoperfusion may serve as a basis for some cases of dementia after stroke."}
{"id": "12213612", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in Rett Syndrome.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in Rett Syndrome. Rett syndrome is a progressive neurologic disorder affecting girls in early childhood with loss of achieved psychomotor abilities and mental retardation. Six sedated female patients (4 to 15 years of age) with a diagnosis of Rett syndrome were studied with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and underwent positron emission tomography scanning of the brain. Relative tracer concentrations between different areas of the brain were assessed, and results were compared with 18 age-matched control subjects. Patients were divided into two age groups: 3 to 8 years of age and 9 to 15 years of age. A relative decrease in [(18)F]FDG uptake in the lateral occipital areas in relation with the whole brain and a relative increase in the cerebellum was evident in both age groups (P < 0.001, unpaired Student t test). A relative increase in frontal tracer uptake was observed in the younger group. Sensorimotor areas and relations between cortical and subcortical structures were preserved in all patients. Changes in glucose cerebral metabolism resemble the regional distribution of normal children less than 1 year of age, likely reflecting a maturational arrest. Changes in frontal areas parallel those in postmortem N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor densities and could correlate with different clinical stages of the disease. This pattern differs from those described in Down syndrome, autism, and Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "12177371", "title": "Brain function and cognition in a community sample of elderly Latinos.", "content": "Brain function and cognition in a community sample of elderly Latinos. Previous studies using PET to measure cerebral glucose metabolism in AD have found metabolic reductions in the temporoparietal and posterior cingulate cortices in individuals with dementia and those at risk of developing it. This study was designed to extend this finding to individuals selected from a population-based cohort of Mexican Americans with a wide spectrum of cognitive ability. A group of 93 individuals was selected from the Sacramento Area Latino Study on Aging, and subjects were categorized into four groups of increasing levels of cognitive impairment: normal, memory impaired, cognitively impaired but not demented (CIND), and demented. PET was performed with the tracer [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose, and data were analyzed with both statistical parametric mapping and an atrophy-corrected volume of interest approach. Individuals with dementia had metabolic reductions that were most robust in the posterior cingulate cortex, whereas CIND subjects had less statistically robust reductions in the posterior cingulate cortex. Cingulate hypometabolism increased the risk of dementia and was a significant risk factor for dementia in logistic regression models that also incorporated MR measures of hippocampal volume and white matter hyperintensities. Posterior cingulate cortical hypometabolism is clearly detected in individuals with dementia who are selected from a population with lower education and a high prevalence of cerebrovascular risk factors, supporting the generalizability of this finding. These metabolic reductions occur prior to the onset of dementia but only in those persons with relatively advanced symptoms."}
{"id": "12138659", "title": "[F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in neurology].", "content": "[F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in neurology]. Positron emission tomography using F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (F-18-FDG-PET) is an ideal tool for imaging regional cerebral metabolism as glucose is the most important source of energy for neurons. Under physiologic conditions the pattern of metabolism reflects the state of cerebral activation which can be modulated by various stimuli to investigate cerebral organization. Pathologic conditions usually cause a drop in metabolism because of neuronal inactivity or loss. They can, however, also be associated with an increased rate of glucose metabolism such as in case of active epileptic foci or malignant tumors. As a consequence F-18-FDG-PET has become a valuable functional imaging modality especially for the diagnostic clarification of non-contributory or negative morphologic imaging results. Dementia, pre-surgical evaluation of epilepsy and neurooncology are currently frequent indications for referral to F-18-FDG-PET in neurology."}
{"id": "12127672", "title": "Differences in cerebral metabolic impairment between early and late onset types of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Differences in cerebral metabolic impairment between early and late onset types of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study was to delineate the specific patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism with regard to the time of onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two groups of 20 AD patients with different ages of onset were examined. The early onset (EO) and late onset (LO) groups had mean ages of onset of 53.9 and 72.7 years. Groups of age-matched normal subjects were used as controls. A regional relative cerebral glucose metabolic image of each subject was obtained by 2-[18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET). NEUROSTAT program was used for spatial normalization and voxel-based statistical parametric mapping (SPM) 99 was used for statistical analyses. Both AD groups had significant hypometabolic regions in the bilateral parieto-temporal regions compared with the age-matched groups. The EO group had more severe hypometabolism in the bilateral parietal and posterior cingulate cortices and precuneus region than the LO group. However, LO group showed no significant hypometabolic regions compared to the EO group. The effects of time of AD onset were delineated as a double dissociation, that is, EO AD patients have a more severe reduction of glucose metabolism. Our finding suggests the existence of biological subtypes of AD."}
{"id": "12124483", "title": "Cerebral metabolic changes associated with Lyme disease.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic changes associated with Lyme disease. There are no positron emission tomography (PET) studies reported in the literature with regards to brain metabolism and function in patients with Lyme disease. These patients frequently present with various neurological symptoms, including memory problems. We used [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET to determine the metabolic landscape in 23 patients with Lyme disease. Images were evaluated for cortical and subcortical abnormalities by two experienced reviewers blinded to the clinical information. The most striking finding was hypometabolism in the temporal lobes in 17/23 (74%) patients. Of these, 12 had bilateral temporal lobe hypometabolism, two had left temporal lobe, and three had right temporal lobe hypometabolism. Seven of the patients with temporal lobe hypometabolism had diffuse cortical hypometabolism that included the frontal and parietal lobes. Lyme disease appears to have two primary patterns of brain involvement on FDG PET scans, specific temporal lobe hypometabolism or a diffuse cortical hypometabolism. The involvement of the temporal lobes in both patterns is likely associated with the memory disturbances described in many of these patients. Although there was no clear diagnostic pattern, and many of the defects were mild, FDG PET imaging may provide important information regarding the areas of the brain affected in patients with neurological symptoms associated with Lyme disease."}
{"id": "12111472", "title": "In vivo imaging of region and cell type specific neocortical neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Perspectives of MRI derived corpus callosum measurement for mapping disease progression and effects of therapy. Evidence from studies with MRI, EEG and PET.", "content": "In vivo imaging of region and cell type specific neocortical neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Perspectives of MRI derived corpus callosum measurement for mapping disease progression and effects of therapy. Evidence from studies with MRI, EEG and PET. Neuropathological studies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) indicate specific loss of layer III and V large pyramidal neurons in association cortex. These neurons give rise to long cortico-cortical connections, projecting through the corpus callosum, in an anterior-posterior topology. Based on these findings we hypothesized that regional corpus callosum atrophy may be a potential in vivo marker for neocortical neuronal loss in AD. To evaluate this hypothesis, we developed a method to measure cross-sectional area of the corpus callosum and of five corpus callosum subregions on midsagittal magnetic resonance imaging scans (MRI). In a subsequent series of six experimental studies using MRI, (18)FDG-PET and EEG, we investigated the relation of white matter hyperintensities (WMH) to corpus callosum size and correlated regional pattern of corpus callosum atrophy with regional cortical metabolic decline as well as intracortical coherencies. Mean total corpus callosum area was reduced significantly in AD patients compared to healthy age-matched controls, with the greatest changes in the rostrum and the splenium and relative sparing of the truncus. The regional pattern of corpus callosum atrophy was independent of WMH load and correlated significantly with pattern of regional metabolic decline measured with (18)FDG-PET, the degree of cognitive impairment and regional decline of bilateral intracortical-coherency in EEG in AD patients. We further found that hippocampus atrophy, as a marker of early allocortical degeneration, was more pronounced than total corpus callosum atrophy in mild stages of AD. Regional corpus callosum atrophy in mild disease, however, suggested early neocortical degeneration in AD. In a longitudinal study, AD patients showed significantly greater rates of corpus callosum atrophy than controls. Rates of atrophy correlated with progression of clinical dementia severity in AD. Our results indicate that regional corpus callosum atrophy in AD patients represents the loss of callosal efferent neurons in corresponding regions of the neocortex. As these neurons are a subset of cortico-cortical projecting neurons, region-specific corpus callosum atrophy may serve as a marker of progressive neocortical disconnection in AD. In combination with measurement of hippocampal atrophy, assessment of corpus callosum atrophy over time in individual patients is useful to evaluate effects on brain structure of currently developed drugs, thought to slow or modify AD progression."}
{"id": "12111302", "title": "Positron emission tomography with [(18)F]FDG in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).", "content": "Positron emission tomography with [(18)F]FDG in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). The aim of this study was to explore the sites of metabolic changes with [(18)F]2-fluoro-2-desoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and to correlate the findings with clinical symptoms. Static [(18)F]FDG-PET studies of eight patients with the diagnosis of confirmed or probable CJD were retrospectively analysed by two physicians from departments of nuclear medicine independently with a strong interrater agreement (kappa=0,98). The clinical data of the patients, based on a standardized evaluation by physicians from the German Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease surveillance study, was correlated with the PET findings. [(18)F]FDG-PET shows widespread hypometabolism in CJD. All patients had a reduction of cerebral glucose metabolism in at least one temporal or parietal region. Additionally in 7 of our own 8 cases and 3 of 4 cases from the literature the occipital lobe, the cerebellum or the basal ganglia were involved. These findings differ from typical patterns of hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. In two thirds of the cases the distribution was markedly asymmetric. Myoclonus was present in five out of our eight own cases. Our data suggest that myoclonus might correlate with metabolic impairment of contralateral parietal and temporal lobes. In three of four patients with visual symptoms FDG uptake was reduced in the visual cortex bilaterally. Typical hyperintensities on MRI were only found in two of the eight cases at the time of PET-studies. Our results demonstrate that [(18)F]FDG-PET appears to be a sensitive investigation in CJD and could be useful to differentiate CJD from other neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "12111130", "title": "Limbic system perfusion in Alzheimer's disease measured by MRI-coregistered HMPAO SPET.", "content": "Limbic system perfusion in Alzheimer's disease measured by MRI-coregistered HMPAO SPET. The goal of this study was to perform a systematic, semi-quantitative analysis of limbic perfusion in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using coregistered single-photon emission tomography (SPET) images aligned to magnetic resonance (MR) images. Limbic perfusion in 40 patients with mild to moderate AD was compared with that of 17 age-, sex-, and education-matched normal controls (NC). HMPAO SPET scans and 3D T1-weighted MR images were acquired for each subject. Structures of the limbic system (i.e. hippocampus, amygdala, anterior thalamus, hypothalamus, mamillary bodies, basal forebrain, septal area and cingulate, orbitofrontal and parahippocampal cortices) were traced on the MR images and transferred to the coregistered SPET scans. Perfusion ratios for all limbic regions were calculated relative to cerebellar perfusion. General linear model multivariate analysis revealed that, overall, limbic structures showed significant hypoperfusion (F=7.802, P<0.00001, eta (2)=0.695 ) in AD patients compared with NC. Greatest differences (d > or = 0.8) were found in the hippocampus, as well as all areas of the cingulate cortex. Significant relative hypoperfusion was also apparent in the parahippocampal cortex, amygdala/entorhinal cortex, septal area and anterior thalamus, all of which showed medium to large effect sizes (d=0.6-0.8). No significant relative perfusion differences were detected in the basal forebrain, hypothalamus, mamillary bodies or orbitofrontal cortex. Logistic regression indicated that posterior cingulate cortex perfusion was able to discriminate AD patients from NC with 93% accuracy (95% sensitivity, 88% specificity). The current results suggest that most, but not all, limbic structures show significant relative hypoperfusion in AD. These findings validate previous post-mortem studies and could be useful in improving diagnostic accuracy, monitoring disease progression and evaluating potential treatment strategies in AD."}
{"id": "12084445", "title": "Voxel-based comparison of regional cerebral glucose metabolism between PSP and corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Voxel-based comparison of regional cerebral glucose metabolism between PSP and corticobasal degeneration. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD) are neurodegenerative disorders that may be accompanied by dementia and parkinsonism as clinical symptoms. The purpose of this study was to elucidate cerebral metabolic differences of these two diseases with cognitive impairments by [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET). A total of 12 patients with PSP (age: 62.8+/-6.0 years old, m: 7, f: 5, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE): 23.4+/-2.6), 12 patients with CBD (age: 64.8+/-6.3 years old, m: 6, f: 6, MMSE: 22.9+/-4.5), and age-matched healthy subjects (normal control (NC)) (age: 63.8+/-7.7 years old, m: 7, f: 5) were subjected to FDG-PET to obtain glucose metabolic images. We compared regional cerebral metabolic images by a voxel-by-voxel analysis with statistical parametric mapping (SPM) among PSP, CBD, and NC subjects, and evaluated differences of hypometabolic regions. The patients with PSP showed reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in the medial and lateral frontal gyri, basal ganglia, and midbrain compared with NC, whereas the patients with CBD showed significant reduction in the parietal lobes (p<0.001). SPM also revealed parietal hypometabolism in CBD patients compared with PSP patients (p<0.001). The predominant parietal glucose metabolic reduction in CBD patients was different from previously reported findings. This finding would be the characteristic substance of patients with CBD accompanying cognitive impairments. Our findings suggest that measurement of glucose metabolism by PET and a voxel-based analysis is useful to understand the pathophysiology of these two diseases with cognitive impairments."}
{"id": "12077921", "title": "[The role of PET scan in the investigation of epileptic functional disorders].", "content": "[The role of PET scan in the investigation of epileptic functional disorders]. Systematic research is needed to evaluate the exact role of pathological factors in the determination of the extension of the hypometabolic area in partial epileptic patients. Together with structural damage, previous seizures, deafferentation and inhibitory mechanisms may contribute to the functional disorders. Benzodiazepine receptor studies showed that the density and binding ability of these receptors decreased in the area of epileptic functional disorder. Circumscribed hypermetabolism may appear during epileptic seizures or even more electrical discharges. The authors' PET studies aimed at presurgical evaluation showed that bilateral temporal hypometabolism occurred more frequently with right-sided seizure start. FDG-PET supported the localization of the pacemaker area both in temporal lobe epilepsies and in extratemporal epilepsies. This method proved instrumental in delineating the extension of the background pathology, too. The authors also demonstrated the strength of PET brain activation in mapping the hemispheric distribution of speech functions required in the planning of surgical interventions. The role of hippocampal sclerosis in temporal lobe hypometabolism was investigated and a short account is given of the observations relating to the relationship of hypermetabolism due to subclinical epileptic discharges and cognitive deficit symptoms."}
{"id": "11986126", "title": "Longitudinal PET Evaluation of Cerebral Metabolic Decline in Dementia: A Potential Outcome Measure in Alzheimer's Disease Treatment Studies.", "content": "Longitudinal PET Evaluation of Cerebral Metabolic Decline in Dementia: A Potential Outcome Measure in Alzheimer's Disease Treatment Studies. It is well established that regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose assessed by [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with Alzheimer's disease in the mental resting state (eyes and ears covered) provide a sensitive, in vivo metabolic index of Alzheimer's disease dementia. Few studies, however, have evaluated longitudinal declines in regional cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease. In addition, the available studies have not used recently developed brain mapping algorithms to characterize the progression of Alzheimer's disease throughout the brain, and none considered the statistical power of regional cerebral glucose metabolism in testing the ability of treatments to attenuate the progression of dementia. The authors used FDG PET and a brain mapping algorithm to investigate cross-sectional reductions in regional cerebral glucose metabolism, longitudinal decline in regional cerebral glucose metabolism after a 1-year follow-up, and the power of this method to evaluate treatments for Alzheimer's disease in patients with mild to moderate dementia. PET scans were initially acquired in 14 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 34 healthy comparison subjects of similar age and sex. Repeat scans were obtained in the patients 1 year later. Power analyses for voxels showing maximal decline over the 1-year period in regional cerebral glucose metabolism (mg/100 g per minute) were computed to estimate the sample sizes needed to detect a significant treatment response in a 1-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment study. The patients with Alzheimer's disease had significantly lower glucose metabolism than healthy comparison subjects in parietal, temporal, occipital, frontal, and posterior cingulate cortices. One year later, the patients with Alzheimer's disease had significant declines in glucose metabolism in parietal, temporal, frontal, and posterior cingulate cortices. Using maximal glucose metabolism reductions in the left frontal cortex, we estimated that as few as 36 patients per group would be needed to detect a 33% treatment response with one-tailed significance of p</=0.005 and 80% power in a 1-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment study. These findings indicate that brain metabolism as assessed by FDG PET during mental rest is a sensitive marker of disease progression in Alzheimer's disease over a 1-year period. These findings also support the feasibility of using FDG PET as an outcome measure to test the ability of treatments to attenuate the progression of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "11960900", "title": "The neural substrates of episodic memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease as revealed by FDG-PET: relationship to degree of deterioration.", "content": "The neural substrates of episodic memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease as revealed by FDG-PET: relationship to degree of deterioration. In a previous investigation, we raised the hypothesis that in Alzheimer's disease the cerebral structures implicated in episodic memory deficits may differ according to the severity of cognitive impairment. To test this hypothesis, Story Recall test scores and PET measurements of resting cerebral glucose utilization, a measure of synaptic integrity, were obtained in 40 patients. Using SPM96 (statistical parametric mapping 1996), positive correlations between the two sets of data were calculated on a voxel basis, first in the whole patient sample and then separately in the two subgroups of 20 patients differing in Mini-Mental State Examination score, i.e. those with least impaired and those with most impaired performance ('less severe' and 'more severe' subgroups, respectively). In the whole sample, significant correlations (P < 0.05, corrected for multiple tests) involved bilaterally not only several limbic structures (the hippocampal/rhinal cortex regions, posterior cingulate gyrus and retrosplenial cortex) but also, and less expectedly, some temporo-occipital association areas. However, the subgroup analysis disclosed that, in the less severe subgroup, all significant correlations (P < 0.005, uncorrected) were restricted to the parahippocampal gyrus and retrosplenial cortex, in accordance with both the distribution of changes in tau in early Alzheimer's disease and the known involvement of this network in normal and impaired memory function, while in the more severe subgroup they mainly involved the left temporal neocortex, which is known to be implicated in semantic memory. These findings suggest that, when episodic memory is mildly impaired, limbic functions are still sufficient to subserve the remaining performance, whereas with more severe memory deficit resulting from accumulated pathology the neocortical areas that are normally involved in semantic memory are recruited, perhaps as a form of (inadequate) compensatory mechanism."}
{"id": "11925778", "title": "[Vascular dementia].", "content": "[Vascular dementia]. The past decade has seen a renewed interest in vascular dementia. The search for a causal relationship between a vascular event or a vascular cerebral lesion and dementia has led to new classification schemes which no longer consider vascular dementia a homogeneous entity but acknowledge the diversity of the clinical and morphological substrates of this syndrome. Deviation from the term \"multi-infarct dementia\" is only one but many consequencies of these recent developments. Etiologically, vascular dementia may result from cerebral small vessel disease leading to extensive leucencephalopathy or lacunes or may be the consequence of strategically located infarcts or multiple infarcts in large vessel territories. It may also be the consequence of global cerebral hypoperfusion, intracerebral hemorrhage or other mechanisms such as vasculitis. There is no definitive medical or surgical treatment for vascular dementia. Thus, it appears that stroke prevention offers the most immediate and substantial solution to reduce the morbidity and mortality. This is best substantiated for treatment of arterial hypertension. Once vascular dementia occurs control of vascular risk factors may be useful but this contention will require larger scale studies to provide more definite proof. A number of metabolically active drugs has been used for the treatment of cognitive symptoms in vascular dementia. Yet, the data are conflicting und the effects described modest at most. There is epidemiological evidence for a more than incidental co-existence between vascular and primary degenerative dementia which suggests that therapies found to be effective in Alzheimer's disease may also prove beneficial at least in subgroups of vascular dementia. Lately, this concept is tested by several studies on the efficacy of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in vascular dementia."}
{"id": "11864808", "title": "Changes in brain functional homogeneity in subjects with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Changes in brain functional homogeneity in subjects with Alzheimer's disease. Imaging studies have reported marked reductions in brain glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). However, less is known about disruptions in the patterns of brain metabolic activity. Here we questioned whether AD affects the patterns of homogeneity/heterogeneity in brain metabolism. PET images of 35 AD subjects were compared with those of 35 controls. A template was applied to extract a cortical rim, which was partitioned into 990 contiguous regions. Estimates of metabolic homogeneity were obtained using the coefficient of variation (CV). The CV of the entire cortex was found to be significantly larger in AD, suggesting increased heterogeneity at the whole brain level. In contrast, regional CV was significantly lower in AD in temporal and parietal cortices, which were the regions that along with the precuneus had the largest metabolic decrements, though the precuneus had increased CV. The enhanced heterogeneity for the global cortical pattern most likely reflects variability in the degree of pathology among brain regions as well as neuroanatomical disconnection. The enhanced homogeneity in parietal and temporal cortices is likely to reflect loss of regional differentiation (i.e. macrocolumnar disorganization). The enhanced CV in precuneus, despite its marked reductions in metabolism, suggests that increases in regional homogeneity in parietal and temporal cortices are not a mere reflection of the decrement in metabolism."}
{"id": "11853990", "title": "Cognitive and brain function in schizotypal personality disorder.", "content": "Cognitive and brain function in schizotypal personality disorder. Schizotypal personality disorder, a diagnosis defined partially in terms of a genetic relatedness to schizophrenia, has begun to receive extensive investigative study. While the exact etiologic relationship between schizotypal personality disorder and schizophrenia remains to be determined, three models have been considered: (1) the two may be distinct disorders, (2) they may be essentially identical disorders but expressed with different degrees of severity, or (3) they may be related disorders with a partially overlapping etiology that might account for the many similarities yet the lack of psychosis or severe deficits in schizotypal individuals. Some of the recent research in the structural and functional neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, cognitive function, and pharmacology of schizotypal personality disorder is reviewed with citation of the most recent findings from our laboratory and others. Both schizotypal and schizophrenic subjects appear to show abnormalities in temporal lobe volume, but schizotypal subjects do not appear to show the volumetric decreases in frontal cortex that schizophrenic patients evidence. Abnormalities in thalamic nuclei parallel these findings-the pulvinar, which projects to temporal association and sensory cortices, is reduced in both disorders, but the mediodorsal nucleus, which projects extensively to the frontal cortex, is reduced in schizophrenic patients but not in schizotypal patients. Functional imaging studies suggest that there may be abnormalities in frontal activation in both disorders, but that schizotypal individuals can recruit alternative regions to accomplish tasks requiring frontal lobe activation that may help compensate. Imaging studies of the subcortex including FDG/PET imaging of metabolic activity during a verbal learning task, SPECT imaging studies which measure binding of IBZM and its displacement following amphetamine administration, and plasma HVA determinations following 2-deoxyglucose administration all suggest the possibility of relatively reduced dopaminergic subcortical activity in schizotypal individuals compared to schizophrenic patients. Cognitive function is also impaired in the areas of working memory, verbal learning, and attention in schizotypal patients, as in schizophrenic patients, and they may be particularly susceptible to cognitive tasks with high context dependence, as in schizophrenia. Preliminary trials of catecholaminergic agents suggest that these agents may be able to improve these impaired cognitive functions."}
{"id": "11849397", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and vasodilatory capacity in anemia secondary to chronic renal failure.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and vasodilatory capacity in anemia secondary to chronic renal failure. Our previous study reported that cerebral oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) increased in hemodialysis patients with anemia. The increased OEF suggests that the cerebral vasodilatory capacity might be impaired in these patients. To clarify this issue, we measured the CO2 response in patients with anemia secondary to chronic renal failure (CRF) using positron emission tomography (PET). Ten anemic patients with CRF (6 females and 4 males) and 6 age-matched normal controls were studied. The underlying diseases of CRF were glomerulonephritis in 8 patients, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in one patient, and hypertension in one patient; in this cohort, 5 patients were on hemodialysis treatment and the remaining 5 patients were in a pre-hemodialysis state. The cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured by the O-15 H2O bolus injection method with each patient in a resting state and during 5% CO2 inhalation. The CO2 response was estimated as the percentage change of CBF per 1 mm Hg change of PaCO2. The CO2 response was significantly attenuated in anemic patients with CRF in comparison to the normal controls, and it inversely correlated with the severity of anemia. There was no significant difference in the CO2 response between the hemodialysis and pre-hemodialysis patients. The CO2 response significantly correlated with CBF and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) at rest, however, it did not correlate with OEF and cerebral blood volume (CBV). The present study revealed the existence of a reduced cerebral vasodilatory capacity in anemic patients with CRF, suggesting that chronic hypoxic brain damage might play a role in the impaired cerebrovascular response to CO2."}
{"id": "11834198", "title": "[Usefulness of functional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Usefulness of functional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia]. Early diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia is difficult, especially at its early stages, being mainly misdiagnosed as a psychiatric condition. The main source of uncertainty comes from the primacy of behavioral disturbances, for which sufficiently validated detection tools are not available. The increasing development of magnetic resonance (MR) techniques permits a triple approach that combines morphology, biochemistry and perfusion in the study of dementing neurodegenerative conditions. A 64-year-old male patient is described with prominent behavioral disturbances and a frontotemporal pattern of cognitive impairment. He met criteria for frontotemporal dementia. Conventional MR imaging showed minimal frontotemporal atrophy. A moderate hypoperfusion of the frontal lobes was observed in the MR perfusion study. The spectroscopy showed a decrease of the n-acetyl-aspartate peak in the medial frontal region with normal values in the medial parietal region. The whole MR imaging study aided to distinguish frontotemporal dementia from other conditions, such as brain structural processes and depression, offering relevant information for prognostic and therapeutic purposes. The usefulness of the new MR imaging techniques in the early diagnosis of dementing neurodegenerative conditions must be confirmed by larger studies accompanied by pathological material."}
{"id": "11814222", "title": "Diagnostic features of Alzheimer's disease extracted from PET sinograms.", "content": "Diagnostic features of Alzheimer's disease extracted from PET sinograms. Texture analysis of positron emission tomography (PET) images of the brain is a very difficult task, due to the poor signal to noise ratio. As a consequence, very few techniques can be implemented successfully. We use a new global analysis technique known as the Trace transform triple features. This technique can be applied directly to the raw sinograms to distinguish patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) from normal volunteers. FDG-PET images of 18 AD and 10 normal controls obtained from the same CTI ECAT-953 scanner were used in this study. The Trace transform triple feature technique was used to extract features that were invariant to scaling, translation and rotation, referred to as invariant features, as well as features that were sensitive to rotation but invariant to scaling and translation, referred to as sensitive features in this study. The features were used to classify the groups using discriminant function analysis. Cross-validation tests using stepwise discriminant function analysis showed that combining both sensitive and invariant features produced the best results, when compared with the clinical diagnosis. Selecting the five best features produces an overall accuracy of 93% with sensitivity of 94% and specificity of 90%. This is comparable with the classification accuracy achieved by Kippenhan et al (1992), using regional metabolic activity."}
{"id": "11595260", "title": "Focal retrograde amnesia documented with matching anterograde and retrograde procedures.", "content": "Focal retrograde amnesia documented with matching anterograde and retrograde procedures. Focal retrograde amnesia is an unusual and theoretically challenging form of memory disorder. The case of a 65-year-old woman presenting with focal retrograde amnesia is reported. Following a cardiac arrest and subsequent hypoxia she remained in a coma for 24 h with evidence of epileptiform activity during the early recovery period. MR scans, 4 and 7 months post-onset, showed mild bifrontal atrophic changes mainly affecting white matter areas. An [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose resting PET scan 1-year post-onset demonstrated right occipito-temporo-parietal hypometabolism. We were able to document the patient's performance on an extensive range of anterograde and retrograde tests and to monitor her recovery of function by assessing her performance at 4, 12 and 24 months post-onset. Spared anterograde memory was observed on a range of verbal and non-verbal tests, including matched tasks that compared pre-illness and post-illness onset recollections. In contrast, her performance on retrograde memory tests, using detailed autobiographical and public events verbal and photographic tasks, showed a temporally-graded retrograde amnesia, more particularly affecting memory for autobiographical episodes. Possible mechanisms underlying CH's focal retrograde amnesia are discussed in terms of Damasio's time-locked multiregional retroactivation model."}
{"id": "11851030", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia: a clinical-pathological study.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia: a clinical-pathological study. We report a 44-year-old female patient without any familial history of dementia presenting with increasing disturbances in behaviour and language followed by a progressive cognitive deterioration. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed a significant impairment on frontal lobe tests. A brain PET scan disclosed a severe frontal hypometabolism. The tentative diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia was made. Her condition rapidly worsened and she died 2 years after the beginning of her disease. Gross examination of the brain showed a selective symmetrical atrophy of both frontal and anterior part of the temporal lobes. Microscopical examination revealed severe neuronal loss in the frontal and anterior temporal cortex associated with gliosis and microvascular spongiosis in the superficial cortical layers in the absence of any specific neuronal or glial inclusions. These neuropathological findings were consistent with the diagnosis of dementia lacking distinctive histology. We discuss the nosology of the frontotemporal dementias, the diagnostic value of PET scan, the recent genetical developments which strongly support the pathogenic role of tau and we emphasize the importance of immunohistochemical examination for a definite neuropathological diagnosis."}
{"id": "11829209", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia: clinical, neuroimaging, and molecular biological findings in 6 patients.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia: clinical, neuroimaging, and molecular biological findings in 6 patients. Establishing the diagnosis in patients with clinical signs and symptoms suggesting primary degenerative disease with marked frontal lobe involvement is difficult. Neuroimaging methods, in particular positron emission tomography (PET) with the tracer 18fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination of beta-amyloid and tau-protein levels may give additional information. We report five patients with clinical and radiological features of degenerative dementia with predominantly frontal involvement and one patient with primary progressive aphasia Diagnostic work-up included computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), PET and tau-protein and beta-amyloid level determination in CSF. While neuropsychological performance varied among patients, CT and MRI demonstrated persistently frontal lobe involvement. PET revealed corresponding changes with frontal hypometabolism, but in addition, four patients (among them two with no corresponding temporal changes in CT or MRI) showed a decreased glucose uptake in the temporal cortices. CSF samples from five patients revealed elevated beta-amyloid 1-42 and tau levels in three and two patients, respectively. Reduced beta-amyloid 1-40 was found in two patients. We conclude that occurrence of clinical symptoms of frontotemporal dementia is accompanied by frontal hypometabolism regardless of additional clinical findings. The value of determination of beta-amyloid and tau protein levels remains to be determined."}
{"id": "11748785", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: diagnosis and management. To summarize the clinical, pathological, imaging and treatment aspects of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Review of literature (MEDLINE). DLB is the second most common form of degenerative dementia, accounting for up to 20% of cases in the elderly. It is characterized by fluctuating cognitive impairment, spontaneous parkinsonism and recurrent visual hallucinations. Consensus clinical criteria have been published and have been shown to have high specificity, but they may still lack sensitivity. Pathologically, DLB may be classified as a Lewy body (LB) disorder and/or as an alpha-synucleinopathy. It is probable that a spectrum of LB disorders exists with the clinical features reflecting the distribution and severity of pathology. Although both DLB and Alzheimer's disease (AD) show a reduction in pre-synaptic cholinergic transmission from the basal forebrain, in DLB there are also deficits in cholinergic transmission from brain stem nuclei. Post-synaptic cortical muscarinic receptors are more functionally intact in DLB suggesting potential responsiveness to cholinergic enhancement. Neuroimaging findings indicate a relative preservation of medial temporal lobe structures in DLB but similar distribution of white matter changes on MRI compared with AD. Defects in nigrostriatal dopamine pathways in DLB have been demonstrated with functional neuroimaging using ligands highlighting pre- and post-synaptic dopaminergic systems. Preliminary studies also indicate subtle differences in perfusion patterns on SPECT with a greater degree of occipital hypoperfusion in DLB compared with AD. Accurate diagnosis of DLB is clinically important as the management of psychosis and behavioural disturbances is complicated by sensitivity to neuroleptic medication. There is accumulating evidence to suggest that DLB may be particularly amenable to cholinergic enhancers. The clinical management of DLB is considered using a four step approach: making a diagnosis; identification of problem symptoms; appropriate non-pharmacological interventions; and pharmacological interventions. Consensus criteria for probable DLB have high specificity-a positive clinical diagnosis is likely to be correct. Treatment choices must consider effects upon motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. Non-pharmacological management is an essential first step, as is reduction or withdrawal of drugs with potential adverse effects. Neuroleptic sensitivity reactions appear less likely to occur with the newer atypical antipsychotics. Cholinesterase inhibitors have been shown in open-label studies and one placebo RCT to be well tolerated and effective in treating cognitive and psychiatric symptoms in DLB. They may become first-line treatments."}
{"id": "11748732", "title": "Resting regional cerebral glucose metabolism in advanced Parkinson's disease studied in the off and on conditions with [(18)F]FDG-PET.", "content": "Resting regional cerebral glucose metabolism in advanced Parkinson's disease studied in the off and on conditions with [(18)F]FDG-PET. Studies of resting regional cerebral glucose consumption (rCMRGlc) in nondemented patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have produced conflicting results, reporting both reduced and normal metabolism in advanced disease and reduced or normal metabolism after dopaminergic therapy. To investigate these issues, [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) was performed in 11 nondemented PD patients with advanced disease and 10 age-matched controls. PD patients were studied after withdrawal of all dopaminergic medication to produce a practically defined off condition, and a second time 1 hour after levodopa, resulting in a clinical on state. Dynamic PET scans and simultaneous arterialised venous blood samples of [(18)F] activity were obtained. A graphical approach was used to generate parametric images of rCMRGlc and statistical parametric mapping to localise significant metabolic changes in PD. Compared with controls, global rCMRGlc was reduced in the on but not in the off condition in PD. In both states, significant regional reductions of glucose uptake were found in the parietal, frontal, temporal cortex, and caudate nucleus. Reductions correlated with the severity of disability in frontal and temporal cortex. Direct comparison between on and off conditions revealed relatively greater reductions of uptake in the ventral/orbital frontal cortex and the thalamus during on. Results suggest that cortical and caudate hypometabolism are common in advanced PD and that caution is mandatory if [(18)F]FDG PET is being used to differentiate advanced PD from dementia and progressive supranuclear palsy where similar reductions are seen. Furthermore, in PD, administration of levodopa is associated with further hypometabolism in orbitofrontal cortex; an area known to be relevant for reversal learning where performance is typically impaired after dopaminergic treatment."}
{"id": "11744784", "title": "Amnesic syndrome and severe ataxia following the recreational use of 3,4-methylene-dioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy') and other substances.", "content": "Amnesic syndrome and severe ataxia following the recreational use of 3,4-methylene-dioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy') and other substances. A 26-year-old woman suffered disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and a brief respiratory arrest following recreational use of 3,4-methylene-dioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'ecstasy'), together with amyl nitrate, lysergic acid (LSD), cannabis and alcohol. She was left with residual cognitive and physical deficits, particularly severe anterograde memory disorder, mental slowness, severe ataxia and dysarthria. Follow-up investigations have shown that these have persisted, although there has been some improvement in verbal recognition memory and in social functioning. Magnetic resonance imaging and quantified positron emission tomography investigations have revealed: (i) severe cerebellar atrophy and hypometabolism accounting for the ataxia and dysarthria; (ii) thalamic, retrosplenial and left medial temporal hypometabolism to which the anterograde amnesia can be attributed; and (iii) some degree of fronto-temporal-parietal hypometabolism, possibly accounting for the cognitive slowness. The putative relationship of these abnormalities to the direct and indirect effects of MDMA toxicity, hypoxia and ischaemia is considered."}
{"id": "11696626", "title": "Metabolic network abnormalities in early Huntington's disease: an [(18)F]FDG PET study.", "content": "Metabolic network abnormalities in early Huntington's disease: an [(18)F]FDG PET study. The identification of discrete patterns of altered functional brain circuitry in preclinical Huntington's disease (HD) gene carriers is important to understanding the pathophysiology of this disorder and could be useful as a biologic disease marker. The purpose of this study was to use PET imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism to identify abnormal networks of brain regions that are specifically related to the preclinical phase of HD. Eighteen presymptomatic HD gene carriers, 13 early-stage HD patients, and 8 age-matched gene-negative relatives were scanned using PET with [(18)F]FDG to quantify regional glucose utilization. A network modeling strategy was applied to the FDG PET data to identify disease-related regional metabolic covariance patterns in the preclinical HD cohort. The outcome measures were the region weights defining the metabolic topography of the HD gene carriers and the subject scores quantifying the expression of the pattern in individual subjects. Network analysis of the presymptomatic carriers and the gene-negative control subjects revealed a significant metabolic covariance pattern characterized by caudate and putamenal hypometabolism but also included mediotemporal metabolic reductions as well as relative metabolic increases in the occipital cortex. Subject scores for this pattern were abnormally elevated in the preclinical group compared with those of the control group (P < 0.005) and in the early symptomatic group compared with those of the presymptomatic group (P < 0.005). These findings show that FDG PET with network analysis can be used to identify specific patterns of abnormal brain function in preclinical HD. The presence of discrete patterns of metabolic abnormality in preclinical HD carriers may provide a useful means of quantifying the rate of disease progression during the earliest phases of this illness."}
{"id": "11694153", "title": "Positron emission tomography in evaluation of dementia: Regional brain metabolism and long-term outcome.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in evaluation of dementia: Regional brain metabolism and long-term outcome. Deficits in cerebral glucose utilization have been identified in patients with cognitive dysfunction attributed to various disease processes, but their prognostic and diagnostic value remains to be defined. To assess the sensitivity and specificity with which cerebral metabolic patterns at a single point in time forecast subsequent documentation of progressive dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose in 146 patients undergoing evaluation for dementia with at least 2 years' follow-up for disease progression at the University of California, Los Angeles, from 1991 to 2000, and PET studies in 138 patients undergoing evaluation for dementia at an international consortium of facilities, with histopathological diagnoses an average of 2.9 years later, conducted from 1984 to 2000. Regional distribution of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose in each patient, classified by criteria established a priori as positive or negative for presence of a progressive neurodegenerative disease in general and of Alzheimer disease (AD) specifically, compared with results of longitudinal or neuropathologic analyses. Progressive dementia was detected by PET with a sensitivity of 93% (191/206) and a specificity of 76% (59/78). Among patients with neuropathologically based diagnoses, PET identified patients with AD and patients with any neurodegenerative disease with a sensitivity of 94% and specificities of 73% and 78%, respectively. The negative likelihood ratio of experiencing a progressive vs nonprogressive course over the several years following a single negative brain PET scan was 0.10 (95% confidence interval, 0.06-0.16), and the initial pattern of cerebral metabolism was significantly associated with the subsequent course of progression overall (P<.001). In patients presenting with cognitive symptoms of dementia, regional brain metabolism was a sensitive indicator of AD and of neurodegenerative disease in general. A negative PET scan indicated that pathologic progression of cognitive impairment during the mean 3-year follow-up was unlikely to occur."}
{"id": "11677392", "title": "Epileptogenic networks: cerebral dysplasias and cerebral ectopias.", "content": "Epileptogenic networks: cerebral dysplasias and cerebral ectopias. There are three areas in which functional imaging may be applied to malformations of cortical development (MCD) that give rise to epilepsy: the localization of epileptic activity; the identification of areas of functional abnormality; the mapping of normal cerebral functions, and how these may be displaced. Single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) commonly shows interictal hypoperfusion and ictal hyperperfusion. Positron emission tomography (PET), using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose, often shows glucose metabolism in ectopic grey matter and hypometabolism in MCD, compared with normal cortex. Cognitive activation tasks, using PET or fMRI, have shown that malformed cortex may participate in cerebral functions, but also widespread atypical cortical organization. Cognitive activation tasks using fMRI are useful when planning surgical resections close to eloquent cortex. Binding of (11)C-flumazenil to central benzodiazepine receptors (cBZR) is often abnormal in MCD, and in areas of cortex that appear normal on MRI, with increased and decreased binding. MR Spectroscopy also reveals abnormalities that are more extensive than the MRI visible lesion, implying more widespread structural and functional abnormalities. The recording of EEG during fMRI has allowed the latter to be used to localize cerebral areas involved in the generation of interictal epileptiform activity. Electroencephalograph source localization and magneto-encephalography may also prove to be useful in the localization of interictal epileptiform activity, particularly when fMRI data are used to constrain the solutions."}
{"id": "11606679", "title": "Extensive metabolic and neuropsychological abnormalities associated with discrete infarction of the genu of the internal capsule.", "content": "Extensive metabolic and neuropsychological abnormalities associated with discrete infarction of the genu of the internal capsule. The clinical presentation of capsular genu infarct varies. Prominent faciolingual weakness and subcortical dementia are the rule, but symptoms depend on the precise location and extension of the lesion beyond the genu. The aim was to characterise the radiographic, electroencephalographic, and neuropsychometric abnormalities in a woman who had a history of recurrent transient memory loss. Case report. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an infarct in the genu of the left internal capsule. Positron emission tomography scan demonstrated decreased metabolic activity in the ipsilateral temporal, occipitotemporal, and contralateral cerebellar hemispheres. Electroencephalography showed intermittent rhythmic delta activity in the left frontotemporal region, and findings on neuropsychometric evaluation were consistent with cognitive impairment. Follow up evaluation 7 months after the stroke showed improvement in some areas of the cognitive domain, but residual neuropsychometric and neurophysiological abnormalities persisted. This case illustrates that cerebral and cerebellar diaschisis may contribute to the symptomatic presentation and recovery from capsular genu infarct, although its precise role remains elusive."}
{"id": "11602028", "title": "Brain metabolic and clinical effects of rivastigmine in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain metabolic and clinical effects of rivastigmine in Alzheimer's disease. In-vivo metabolic measures with positron emission tomography using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) have demonstrated hypometabolism in temporal, frontal, and hippocampal areas during the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Progression of the dementia in AD involves compromised cholinergic functioning. Cholinesterase inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy in improving cognition and behaviour in AD. In this study, we demonstrate the usefulness of FDG-PET in measuring the progression of untreated AD and its modification by treatment with rivastigmine (Exelon, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, New Jersey, USA), a centrally selective cholinesterase inhibitor of the carbamate type. Patients with mild to moderate probable AD (Mini-Mental Status Exam scores of 10-26, inclusive) were enrolled in a double-blind, placebo controlled comparison of three fixed daily doses of rivastigmine (3, 6, or 9 mg/d) or placebo for 26 wk. FDG-PET scans were obtained on 27 patients at baseline and following 26 wk of treatment using the Snodgrass Picture Naming activation task. A total of 71.4% of the patients treated with placebo deteriorated clinically compared to only 25.0% of the patients treated with rivastigmine (chi2 = 4.8; p & 0.03). Rivastigmine-responders (i.e. those who clinically improved or remained clinically stable as measured by the Clinicianaposs Interview-Based Impression of Change-plus) showed a marked increase in brain metabolism (p <0.01) involving, but not limited to, structures comprising the memory-related cortices and the prefrontal system. These metabolic changes were not observed in the placebo-treated patients or the rivastigmine non-responders. Of note is that responders increased hippocampal metabolism by 32.5% (p < 0.03) compared to a non-significant decrease in the non-responders (6.4%) and placebo-treated patients (4.1%). These results are consistent with the literature suggesting that FDG-PET can sensitively measure the progression of AD and its improvement with cholinesterase inhibitors. Rivastigmine prevented the expected deterioration in clinical status and dramatically increased brain metabolic activity in a majority of patients."}
{"id": "11591846", "title": "Neural and cognitive bases of upper limb apraxia in corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Neural and cognitive bases of upper limb apraxia in corticobasal degeneration. To investigate the neural and cognitive bases of upper limb apraxia in corticobasal degeneration (CBD). Eighteen patients with CBD underwent a cognitive neuropsychological assessment of apraxia and resting [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose PET scanning. Two complementary measures of apraxia were computed for each modality of gesture production. First, a performance score measured error frequency during gesture execution. Second, as a more stringent test of the integrity of the praxis system, the correction score measured the patient's ability to correct his or her errors on a second attempt. For each measure type, a cut-off score for the presence of apraxia was defined with regard to healthy controls. Using each cut-off score, the regional cerebral glucose metabolism of patients with CBD with apraxia (i.e., performing below cut-off score) was compared with that of patients with CBD without apraxia. Mean performance scores were below normal values in all modalities. Anterior cingulate hypometabolism predominated in patients with CBD who performed below the cut-off performance score. At variance, mean correction scores were below normal values for gesture imitation only. Hypometabolism in superior parietal lobule and supplementary motor area characterized patients with CBD who were unable to correct their errors at the same rate as control subjects did. Distinct neural networks underlie distinct aspects of the upper limb apraxic deficits in CBD. Extending previous findings of gesture production deficits in CBD, the use of complementary measures of apraxic behavior discloses a visuoimitative upper limb apraxia in CBD, underlain by a metabolic decrease in a parietofrontal neural network."}
{"id": "11558792", "title": "Alzheimer's disease versus dementia with Lewy bodies: cerebral metabolic distinction with autopsy confirmation.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease versus dementia with Lewy bodies: cerebral metabolic distinction with autopsy confirmation. Seeking antemortem markers to distinguish Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined brain glucose metabolism of DLB and AD. Eleven DLB patients (7 Lewy body variant of AD [LBVAD] and 4 pure diffuse Lewy body disease [DLBD]) who had antemortem position emission tomography imaging and autopsy confirmation were compared to 10 autopsy-confirmed pure AD patients. In addition, 53 patients with clinically-diagnosed probable AD, 13 of whom later fulfilled clinical diagnoses of DLB, were examined. Autopsy-confirmed AD and DLB patients showed significant metabolic reductions involving parietotemporal association, posterior cingulate, and frontal association cortices. Only DLB patients showed significant metabolic reductions in the occipital cortex, particularly in the primary visual cortex (LBVAD -23% and DLBD -29% vs AD -8%), which distinguished DLB versus AD with 90% sensitivity and 80% specificity. Multivariate analysis revealed that occipital metabolic changes in DLB were independent from those in the adjacent parietotemporal cortices. Analysis of clinically diagnosed probable AD patients showed a significantly higher frequency of primary visual metabolic reduction among patients who fulfilled later dinical criteria for DLB. In these patients, occipital hypometabolism preceded some clinical features of DLB. Occipital hypometabolism is a potential antemortem marker to distinguish DLB versus AD."}
{"id": "11548935", "title": "Evaluation of linear registration algorithms for brain SPECT and the errors due to hypoperfusion lesions.", "content": "Evaluation of linear registration algorithms for brain SPECT and the errors due to hypoperfusion lesions. The semiquantitative analysis of perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images requires a reproducible, objective method. Automated spatial standardization (registration) of images is a prerequisite to this goal. A source of registration error is the presence of hypoperfusion defects, which was evaluated in this study with simulated lesions. The brain perfusion images measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT from 21 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and 35 control subjects were retrospectively analyzed. An automatic segmentation method was developed to remove external activity. Three registration methods, robust least squares, normalized mutual information (NMI), and count difference were implemented and the effects of simulated defects were compared. The tested registration methods required segmentation of the cerebrum from external activity, and the automatic and manual methods differed by a three-dimensional displacement of 1.4+/-1.1 mm. NMI registration proved to be least adversely effected by simulated defects with 3 mm average displacement caused by severe defects. The error in quantifying the patient-template parietal ratio due to misregistration was 2.0% for large defects (70% hypoperfusion) and 0.5% for smaller defects (85% hypoperfusion)."}
{"id": "11530420", "title": "Neuropsychological function in Tourette syndrome.", "content": "Neuropsychological function in Tourette syndrome. The accumulated body of scientific evidence regarding intellectual function, presence of learning disorders, and specific neuropsychological deficits in TS suggests that difficulties in these areas are present in a significant percentage of patients with TS. Despite the numerous methodological shortcomings of past neuropsychological studies of TS, relatively robust and consistent findings have emerged. The literature to date has suggested that intellectual ability is normally distributed in TS. Whether or not individuals with TS have significant discrepancies between their verbal and nonverbal abilities remains unclear. The prevalence of learning disabilities in TS has been reported to be similar to the base rates reported for the general population, although there is evidence to suggest that the prevalence of LDs in children with TS may actually be lower and specific for difficulties in math and written language. Specific cognitive deficits in TS consist of visuomotor integration problems, impaired fine motor skill, and executive dysfunction. The presence of comorbid conditions, notably ADHD and OCD, appears to significantly increase the likelihood that an individual with TS will also have learning problems or some demonstrable cognitive impairment. The presence of a learning disability, specific academic deficiency, or cognitive deficit may pose a greater obstacle for persons with TS than the tic disorder itself. This is particularly salient for children with TS, who may be at a higher risk for poor school performance and academic failure. The psychosocial impact of these problems is also far-reaching. Given the recent emphasis on the early detection of academic and learning problems, it would seem prudent that children with TS who are suspected of having neuropsychological difficulties be evaluated as soon as possible. There are numerous educational interventions and accommodations available to children with LDs and/or specific academic weaknesses that can work equally well in children with TS. The available body of scientific evidence suggests that persons with TS have normally distributed intellectual ability. This would suggest a diminished role for routine IQ testing unless there is compelling clinical evidence to suggest that the IQ score be obtained, such as when the individual is suspected of having an LD. Given that children with TS may be particularly at risk for learning disabilities or academic deficiencies in math and written language, a complete psychoeducational workup should be conducted on any child with TS who is suspected of having such difficulties. This evaluation should be conducted as early as possible, so that educational interventions can be implemented. Traditionally, the psychoeducational evaluation is performed by the school psychologist and should include standardized IQ assessment and academic achievement testing that can objectively identify and quantify the nature and severity of the learning problem. Once the problem has been documented, the school psychologist should recommend appropriate educational and remedial interventions. In addition to psychoeducational testing, neuropsychological testing is indicated to identify specific cognitive deficits that might be present in children with TS, notably problems with visuomotor integration, motor skill, and executive function. The psychoeducational evaluation performed by the school psychologist typically does not assess these cognitive functions. Therefore, referral for neuropsychological testing is indicated if there is a strong clinical suspicion of cognitive deficits. The accumulated neuropsychological literature in TS suggests that a broad-based, comprehensive, and lengthy neuropsychological examination is not necessary, however. At a minimum, the neuropsychological test battery should include assessment of visuomotor integration ability, motor skills, spatial/perceptual abilities, and executive function. This type of assessment would take less time to complete and has greater sensitivity and specificity for identifying neurocognitive deficits that are believed to be unique to TS. Neuropsychological functioning continues to be an important component in understanding the full neurobehavioral spectrum of TS. At present, there is great opportunity to explore neuropsychological functioning in TS with newly emerging technology such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and related techniques that assess cortical metabolic activity, as well as newer electrophysiological techniques. This technology, notably fMRI, allows investigation of neuropsychological functioning in vivo and may reveal important clues to the neuroanatomic substrates of neuropsychological impairment of learning disabilities in TS."}
{"id": "11526211", "title": "Prediction of cognitive decline in normal elderly subjects with 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose/poitron-emission tomography (FDG/PET).", "content": "Prediction of cognitive decline in normal elderly subjects with 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose/poitron-emission tomography (FDG/PET). Neuropathology studies show that patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease typically have lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC), hippocampus (Hip), and temporal neocortex. Related observations with in vivo imaging have enabled the prediction of dementia from MCI. Although individuals with normal cognition may have focal EC lesions, this anatomy has not been studied as a predictor of cognitive decline and brain change. The objective of this MRI-guided 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose/positron-emission tomography (FDG/PET) study was to examine the hypothesis that among normal elderly subjects, EC METglu reductions predict decline and the involvement of the Hip and neocortex. In a 3-year longitudinal study of 48 healthy normal elderly, 12 individuals (mean age 72) demonstrated cognitive decline (11 to MCI and 1 to Alzheimer's disease). Nondeclining controls were matched on apolipoprotein E genotype, age, education, and gender. At baseline, metabolic reductions in the EC accurately predicted the conversion from normal to MCI. Among those who declined, the baseline EC predicted longitudinal memory and temporal neocortex metabolic reductions. At follow-up, those who declined showed memory impairment and hypometabolism in temporal lobe neocortex and Hip. Among those subjects who declined, apolipoprotein E E4 carriers showed marked longitudinal temporal neocortex reductions. In summary, these data suggest that an EC stage of brain involvement can be detected in normal elderly that predicts future cognitive and brain metabolism reductions. Progressive E4-related hypometabolism may underlie the known increased susceptibility for dementia. Further study is required to estimate individual risks and to determine the physiologic basis for METglu changes detected while cognition is normal."}
{"id": "11516556", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy. Two case reports and a review of the literature.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy. Two case reports and a review of the literature. We present two cases of progressive early-onset dementia with apraxia and visuospatial disability as initial manifestations. In the later stages of the illness Gerstmann's and Balint's syndromes developed. Structural neuroimaging demonstrated parieto-occipital atrophy and functional imaging revealed bilateral hypometabolism and hypoperfusion in these areas. These cases fulfil the diagnostic criteria of posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). Frontal lobe involvement became evident as the disease progressed. Alzheimer's disease also typically features this anterior spread and possibly this is the underlying pathological substrate for this clinical syndrome, although definite pathology is lacking. In this report, we describe longitudinal evolution in these two cases of PCA."}
{"id": "11511703", "title": "Relations between hypometabolism in the posterior association neocortex and hippocampal atrophy in Alzheimer's disease: a PET/MRI correlative study.", "content": "Relations between hypometabolism in the posterior association neocortex and hippocampal atrophy in Alzheimer's disease: a PET/MRI correlative study. Hippocampal atrophy and hypometabolism in the posterior association neocortex are two well known features of Alzheimer's disease. A correlation between these two features was reported twice previously, suggesting intriguing relations. This question has been reassessed, this time controlling for severity of dementia as well as assessing each side of the brain separately and using a voxel based image analysis in addition to the previously employed regions of interest (ROIs). Eleven patients were studied with probable Alzheimer's disease and mild to moderate dementia in whom both volume MRI and PET assessed cerebral glucose consumption (CMRGlc) were available. Hypothesis driven correlations between hippocampal width (an index of atrophy) and CMRGlc were performed for two posterior association regions, the superior temporal and the inferior parietal (angular gyrus) cortices, using ROIs set separately for each hemisphere. To confirm significant correlations from the ROIs approach, if any, and to assess their specificity for the posterior association neocortex, CMRGlc image voxel based analysis of correlations with hippocampal width was then carried out. There was a significant correlation, in the positive-neurobiologically expected-direction, between right hippocampal width and right angular gyrus metabolism (p< 0.01, Spearman), which remained significant with Kendall partial correlation controlling for dementia severity (estimated by mini mental state scores). Statistical non-parametric mapping (SnPM) confirmed this correlation (p< 0.025), and showed a single additional correlation in the right middle temporal gyrus (p< 0.005), which is also part of the posterior association cortex. The findings with both ROIs and voxel based mapping replicate earlier reports of a relation between hippocampal atrophy and ipsilateral association cortex hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease, and for the first time document that this relation is both region specific and independent of the dementing process itself. Why the correlation was significant only for the right hemisphere is unclear but may be related to the limited sample. Hippocampal-neocortical disconnection due to early and severe medial temporal lobe pathology may at least partly explain the posterior association cortex hypometabolism found in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "11502825", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in hypothyroidism: a positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in hypothyroidism: a positron emission tomography study. Hypothyroidism is often associated with defective memory, psychomotor slowing, and depression. However, the relationship between thyroid status and cognitive or psychiatric disturbances remains unclear. Using psychometric scales, 10 patients who had undergone total thyroidectomy for thyroid carcinoma were evaluated for depression, anxiety, and psychomotor slowing; they were examined both when euthyroid and hypothyroid after thyroid hormone withdrawal. Positron emission tomography was used, with oxygen-15-labeled water and fluorine-18F-labeled 2-deoxy-2fluoro-D-glucose as the tracers, to correlate the regional cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism with the mental state in patients. Two different image analysis techniques (regions of interest and statistical parametric maps) were applied. In hypothyroidism, there was a generalized decrease in regional cerebral blood flow (23.4%, P < 0.001) and in cerebral glucose metabolism (12.1%, P < 0.001) and there were no specific local defects. Patients were also significantly more depressed (P < 0.001), anxious (P < 0.001) and psychomotor slowed (P < 0.005) in hypo than in euthyroid status. These results indicate that the brain activity was globally reduced in severe hypothyroidism of short duration without the regional modifications usually observed in primary depression."}
{"id": "11486103", "title": "Phenotype of a homozygous CADASIL patient in comparison to 9 age-matched heterozygous patients with the same R133C Notch3 mutation.", "content": "Phenotype of a homozygous CADASIL patient in comparison to 9 age-matched heterozygous patients with the same R133C Notch3 mutation. CADASIL is an autosomal dominant arteriopathy, characterized by multiple brain infarcts, cognitive decline, and finally dementia, which is caused by mutations in Notch3 gene encoding a Notch3 receptor protein. We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, imaging, genetic, and skin biopsy findings in a CADASIL patient homozygous for the C475T mutation resulting in R133C amino acid substitution, in comparison to 9 age-matched heterozygous patients with the same mutation. The patients were examined clinically and neuropsychologically and with MRI and positron emission tomography for assessment of cerebral blood flow. The gene defect was analyzed by sequencing the products of polymerase chain reaction of exons 3 and 4 of the Notch3 gene. Dermal arteries were analyzed electron microscopically. The homozygous patient had his first-ever stroke at age 28 years. This is markedly earlier than the average, but the patient's heterozygous son had his first transient ischemic attack-like episode at the same age and another heterozygous patient had his first-ever stroke when only 2 years older. He was neuropsychologically more severely deteriorated than all but 1 of the heterozygous patients. These 2 patients had the most severe (confluent grade D) white matter MRI changes. Positron emission tomography showed markedly reduced cerebral blood flow. Skin biopsy revealed profuse deposits of granular osmiophilic material. The progression of disease in the homozygous case was, however, slower than in the most severely affected heterozygous patient. Our homozygous patient's phenotype is within the clinical spectrum of CADASIL, although at its severe end. Thus, CADASIL may follow the classic definition of a dominant disease, according to which the heterozygous and homozygous patients are clinically indistinguishable."}
{"id": "11472860", "title": "Estrogen use and brain metabolic change in older adults. A preliminary report.", "content": "Estrogen use and brain metabolic change in older adults. A preliminary report. Because estrogen may influence brain blood flow and metabolism in older adults, we used positron emission tomography to evaluate cerebral glucose metabolic change in post-menopausal women and men. Women estrogen users (n=4), women non-users (n=8) and men (n=10) were scanned at baseline and two years later. Analyses focused on glucose metabolism in lateral temporal, inferior parietal and posterior cingulate brain regions, previously reported to decline in non-demented older persons. No metabolic differences in cerebral regions of interest were found among groups at baseline. At follow-up, women estrogen users showed significantly increased glucose metabolism in the lateral temporal region, whereas women non-users and men exhibited no significant metabolic change in this region. These findings suggest that estrogen use may protect against regional cerebral metabolic decline in postmenopausal women."}
{"id": "11468301", "title": "Sturge-Weber syndrome: correlation between clinical course and FDG PET findings.", "content": "Sturge-Weber syndrome: correlation between clinical course and FDG PET findings. To determine whether the extent and degree of glucose hypometabolism defined by PET correlate with seizure characteristics, cognitive function, and interictal EEG abnormalities in children with unilateral cerebral involvement of Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS). 2-Deoxy-2[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) PET was performed in 13 children (age range 0.7 to 15.1 years; five boys, eight girls) with unilateral SWS. Based on asymmetries between homologous cortical areas in FDG PET images, cortical areas of mildly (10% to 20% decrease), and severely (>20% decrease) asymmetric cortical metabolism were defined. These areas were normalized to the size of the ipsilateral hemisphere and correlated with clinical seizure characteristics, full-scale IQ, and interictal EEG abnormalities. Both seizure frequency (p = 0.027) and lifetime number of seizures (p = 0.017) showed a positive correlation with the area (expressed as the percentage of cortical area of ipsilateral hemisphere) of mildly asymmetric cortical metabolism. Patients with higher IQ had a shorter duration of epilepsy (p = 0.044) and a larger area of severely asymmetric cortical metabolism (p = 0.044). Patients with bilateral interictal EEG abnormalities had larger lifetime number of seizures (p = 0.042), lower IQ (p = 0.024), and smaller area of severely asymmetric cortical metabolism (p = 0.019) than those with only ipsilateral EEG abnormalities. Association of severely asymmetric cortical metabolism with relatively preserved cognitive function in SWS suggests that functional reorganization occurs more readily when cortex is severely rather than mildly damaged. Therefore, the area of mildly asymmetric cortical metabolism may exert a nociferous effect on the remaining of the brain. Thus, the extent and degree of glucose asymmetry detected by PET are sensitive markers of seizure severity and cognitive decline in SWS."}
{"id": "11445252", "title": "Hippocampal formation glucose metabolism and volume losses in MCI and AD.", "content": "Hippocampal formation glucose metabolism and volume losses in MCI and AD. We used MRI volume sampling with coregistered and atrophy corrected FDG-PET scans to test three hypotheses: 1) hippocampal formation measures are superior to temporal neocortical measures in the discrimination of normal (NL) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI); 2) neocortical measures are most useful in the separation of Alzheimer disease (AD) from NL or MCI; 3) measures of PET glucose metabolism (MRglu) have greater diagnostic sensitivity than MRI volume. Three groups of age, education, and gender matched NL, MCI, and AD subjects were studied. The results supported the hypotheses: 1) entorhinal cortex MRglu and hippocampal volume were most accurate in classifying NL and MCI; 2) both imaging modalities identified the temporal neocortex as best separating MCI and AD, whereas widespread changes accurately classified NL and AD; 3) In most between group comparisons regional MRglu measures were diagnostically superior to volume measures. These cross-sectional data show that in MCI hippocampal formation changes exist without significant neocortical changes. Neocortical changes best characterize AD. In both MCI and AD, metabolism reductions exceed volume losses."}
{"id": "11425920", "title": "Energy hypometabolism in posterior cingulate cortex of Alzheimer's patients: superficial laminar cytochrome oxidase associated with disease duration.", "content": "Energy hypometabolism in posterior cingulate cortex of Alzheimer's patients: superficial laminar cytochrome oxidase associated with disease duration. Among brain regions affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the posterior cingulate shows the earliest and largest decrement in energy metabolism. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown that these decrements appear before the onset of memory deficits or other symptoms in persons at genetic risk for AD. This study compares in vivo imaging results and in situ postmortem analyses by examining the posterior cingulate (area 23) in 15 AD patients and 13 age-matched nondemented controls using quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry as an intracellular measure of oxidative energy metabolic capacity. Each of the six layers of the posterior cingulate demonstrated a decline in cytochrome oxidase activity in AD relative to controls, whereas adjacent motor cortex showed no significant differences. This decrement did not appear to be mainly secondary to nonspecific decrement in mitochondrial enzymes, oxidative stress, cell loss, or histopathology. The cytochrome oxidase decrement was most severe in the superficial layer I (-39%), which demonstrated a correlation to disease duration. Covariance analyses suggest that superficial laminas undergo a functional uncoupling from the deeper layers of posterior cingulate cortex in AD, whereas no such effects are found in motor cortex or controls. These findings expand on previous results from PET studies by illuminating the layer-specific cytochrome oxidase contributions to energy hypometabolism. The findings suggest a decrement of cytochrome oxidase in posterior cingulate cortex, with progressive reduction within the superficial laminas linked to disease duration. Such decrement could contribute to some of the behavioral symptoms displayed by AD patients. This decrement appeared greater in women."}
{"id": "11416945", "title": "Correlation of rCBF (SPECT), CSF tau, and cognitive function in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, other types of dementia, and control subjects.", "content": "Correlation of rCBF (SPECT), CSF tau, and cognitive function in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, other types of dementia, and control subjects. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) during life remains difficult and a definite diagnosis of AD relies on histopathological confirmation at post-mortem or by cerebral biopsy. It is well known that levels of tau proteins are consistently and significantly increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Alzheimer's patients versus levels in normal controls. However, the sole use of this biochemical marker as a test for AD is hampered by mediocre specificity, since tau concentrations may also be elevated in certain other neurological disorders (OND). Studies of the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) are widely performed because of their convenience and usefulness in a variety of neurological disorders. Most studies have reported high diagnostic accuracy for brain perfusion single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) in Alzheimer's disease. In order to improve specificity, in this study, correlation of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT scanning and CSF tau protein levels was made in 117 patients with AD, 67 patients with OND (26 of which had other dementias), and 23 age-matched controls. Means and standard deviations of tau protein levels were 297, 42 +/- 221, 12 in AD patients and 78, 07 +/- 98, 51 in patients with OND (p = 0.0006). No correlation was noted between CSF tau protein levels and age, duration of the disease, and neuropsychological scores of mini-mental state examination (MMSE), Cambridge Cognitive Examination (CAMCOG), and Functional Rating Scale for Symptoms of Dementia (FRSSD). There was a bilateral parietal and temporal hypoperfusion in patients with AD in SPECT in comparison to normal subjects (p < 0.05) and there was a statistical correlation between this hypoperfusion and neuropsychological tests, such as MMSE and CAMCOG (p < 0.01). There was no correlation between tau protein levels and hypoperfusion in SPECT. Conclusively, the correlation between elevated levels of tau proteins and hypoperfusion in SPECT in AD patients therefore cannot improve the specificity of tests in AD and this means that the determination of CSF tau proteins levels is not a specific diagnostic test for AD."}
{"id": "11416738", "title": "FDG positron emission tomographic, radioiodine, and MIBI imaging in a patient with poorly differentiated insular thyroid carcinoma.", "content": "FDG positron emission tomographic, radioiodine, and MIBI imaging in a patient with poorly differentiated insular thyroid carcinoma. Poorly differentiated insular thyroid carcinoma is now classified as a separate entity among other tumors of the thyroid gland. Its histologic pattern and its clinical course are regarded as intermediate between well differentiated and anaplastic thyroid cancer. Insular carcinoma accumulates I-131, but no data exist regarding its fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomographic (PET) uptake. The authors report F-18 FDG PET, Tc-99m MIBI, and radioiodine imaging features in a 63-year-old patient with metastatic insular thyroid carcinoma. After total thyroidectomy (for poorly differentiated insular carcinoma pT3a), the patient was referred for radioiodine ablation. No signs of recurrence were present until 16 months later, when thyroglobulin levels increased. An I-131 scan showed a single lesion in the right lung, and further radioiodine treatment was administered (cumulative dose [530 mCi], 19,610 MBq I-131). Three years after the initial diagnosis, FDG-PET and Tc-99m MIBI scans were performed within 5 days during thyroxine treatment. After that, thyroxine substitution was withdrawn; 6 weeks later, an I-131 whole-body scan was performed. Both radioiodine and MIBI images showed increased tracer uptake in the known lung lesion. However, FDG PET showed a normal tracer distribution. Magnetic resonance and computed tomographic imaging confirmed a 12-mm lesion in the right upper lobe. These findings support the concept of the \"flip-flop phenomenon\" in insular thyroid carcinoma, an alternating pattern of metastases with either I-131 or FDG-uptake. Despite poorly differentiated histologic findings, glucose metabolism was not increased in this patient with an insular tumor."}
{"id": "11398009", "title": "[Contribution of positron emission tomography to functional neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Contribution of positron emission tomography to functional neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease]. When combined with cognitive investigations, functional neuroimaging methods such as positron emission tomography allow to depict the neural substrates that underlie the neuropsychological alterations in Alzheimer's disease. Capitalising on the variance in both cognitive performances and resting cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRGlc) in Alzheimer's disease, it is possible to correlate these two quantitative variables on a pixel-by-pixel basis and to generate maps showing the significant correlations in stereotaxic space. Some examples using this approach in the domain of memory disorders are presented in this brief review. We notably show that the localisation of the significant correlations differs from one memory system to another, as evaluated by clinical memory tasks. This approach also unravels the compensatory mechanisms that take place with evolution of the disease. Over and above its interest in clinical neuropsychology, this method constitutes a new source of inferences complementary to the classic activation paradigm in normal subjects, as the latter identifies the cerebral structures that are involved with, but not necessarily indispensable for, the normal execution of the task. This approach highlights the interest of combining functional neuroimaging and neuropsychology to better understand the neural substrates of cognitive deficits in both patients with memory disorders and elderly normal subjects."}
{"id": "11383748", "title": "Improved cerebral perfusion and metabolism after stenting for basilar artery stenosis: technical case report.", "content": "Improved cerebral perfusion and metabolism after stenting for basilar artery stenosis: technical case report. Recent advances in stent technology have allowed the introduction of more flexible stents that may be tracked more easily in the intracranial vessels. We present a patient with improved cerebral blood flow and metabolism as assessed by positron emission tomography after stent-assisted angioplasty for symptomatic basilar artery stenosis. A 62-year-old man, who had undergone left superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery bypass surgery for left internal carotid artery occlusion 10 years previously, presented with dizziness, blurred vision, and memory disturbance. Angiography revealed severe stenosis of the proximal basilar artery. Positron emission tomographic scans revealed decreased cerebral blood flow associated with increased oxygen extraction fraction in the entire brain, particularly in the posterior circulation and the left middle cerebral artery territory. Despite medical treatment, the patient experienced worsening visual disturbance and right-sided motor weakness. Ticlopidine and aspirin were used as antiplatelet agents. In addition, we used argatroban, which is a direct thrombin inhibitor, as an anticoagulant during the procedure. Predilation with a coronary artery balloon was performed, followed by placement of a GFX 3- by 8-mm stent (Arterial Vascular Engineering, Santa Rosa, CA), with excellent angiographic results. The patient made a good neurological recovery, and the postoperative positron emission tomographic scan demonstrated increases in both cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen with a normalization of oxygen extraction fraction. Stent-assisted angioplasty can provide a favorable clinical course as well as improved cerebral perfusion and metabolism for a patient with basilar artery stenosis. Long-term follow-up data and additional clinical experience are required to assess the durability of this approach."}
{"id": "11371277", "title": "Pulsatile cardiopulmonary bypass failed to prevent neuropsychological dysfunction.", "content": "Pulsatile cardiopulmonary bypass failed to prevent neuropsychological dysfunction. To prevent neurological complications during cardiopulmonary bypass, cerebrovascular screenings by magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomographic scan of the brain were performed preoperatively in patients who had ischemic heart disease and all patients aged 60 years or older. From 1996 to 1999, 173 adult patients (mean age 65.1+/-7.7 y) were evaluated. Forty-one patients were considered to be at high risk from the screening tests and pulsatile cardiopulmonary bypass was applied. The remaining 132 patients were placed in the control group. Postoperative cerebral infarction caused by embolism was encountered in three patients (3/173, 1.7%), two in the high-risk group (2/41, 4.8%) and one in the control group (1/132, 0.8%), but the difference between these incidences was not statistically significant. Cerebral infarctions caused by brain hypoperfusion did not occur in this series. A neuropsychological test (Hasegawa's dementia scale, HDS) was done pre- and postoperatively. No one was diagnosed with dementia preoperatively, whereas 7 patients were diagnosed with dementia postoperatively. Among these 7 patients, 6 patients were in the high-risk group (17.1%, 6/35) and one patient was in the control group (0.9%, 1/113). Under these circumstances, using cerebrovascular screening and pulsatile cardiopulmonary bypass, cerebral infarction due to hypoperfusion did not occur, but cerebral infarction due to embolism was encountered, and neuropsychological dysfunction was not prevented."}
{"id": "11337540", "title": "Statistical brain mapping of 18F-FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease: validation of anatomic standardization for atrophied brains.", "content": "Statistical brain mapping of 18F-FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease: validation of anatomic standardization for atrophied brains. Despite the increased use of statistical mapping to detect brain functional changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD), potential artifacts introduced by stereotactic anatomic standardization of atrophied brains have not been examined carefully. We investigated the effects of anatomic standardization by Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) and NEUROSTAT. First, 10 AD patients and 10 age-matched healthy volunteers underwent 18F-FDG brain PET imaging. Each image set was standardized to a stereotactic brain template using SPM or NEUROSTAT, followed by pixel normalization to the global or cerebellar activity. Within-group comparisons of standardized image sets by each method and a between-group comparison of healthy volunteers and AD patients were performed using the statistical analysis routines of SPM. Second, simulated PET image sets were generated from segmented MR image sets of 5 healthy volunteers and 5 AD patients. Using the anatomic standardization parameters estimated on the simulated image sets, original gray matter MR image sets were transformed to the stereotactic coordinate system. Between-group subtraction analyses of the transformed gray matter image sets between healthy volunteers and AD groups were performed to examine the accuracy of cortical gray matter matching. Between-group comparison by SPM or NEUROSTAT showed generally similar areas of hypometabolism in bilateral temporoparietal, posterior cingulate, and left frontal cortices. Both methods showed possible deformation artifacts in the anterior part of the corpus callosum. The localization of the peak hypometabolism varied considerably between the two methods when global normalization was applied. The use of a common brain template for standardization resulted in asymmetric differences in cortical margins, indicating systematic differences in the deformation algorithms. The realistic simulation study revealed gray matter mismatches to be 20% greater with SPM than with NEUROSTAT. Although different statistical mapping methods may yield grossly similar patterns of hypometabolism in AD, the extent, severity, and peak location of metabolic changes can be inconsistent. Deformation accuracy appears to be more prone to atrophy. These limitations need to be considered carefully in the application and interpretation of brain mapping analysis in atrophied brains."}
{"id": "11328693", "title": "Relation between 1H MR spectroscopic imaging and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relation between 1H MR spectroscopic imaging and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. 1 H Magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) and positron emission tomography (PET) of (18) F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) were performed in 18 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 3 normal controls. We measured the distribution and relative signal intensities of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA; a presumed neuronal marker), choline residues (Cho) representing cellular membrane compounds and of creatine-containing metabolites (Cr), and correlated these to regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGI) after coregistration of both imaging-techniques. The pattern of choline was significantly different between AD and normals (p < 0.01). RCMRGI was significantly related to Cho/Cr (r=-0.21, p<.05) and NAA/Cho quotients (r=0.35, p<.001). Our results suggest that in AD reduced neuronal energy performance and membrane abnormalities contribute to metabolic deterioration."}
{"id": "11327121", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in silent brain infarction and related cerebrovascular disorders.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in silent brain infarction and related cerebrovascular disorders. The appropriate management of silent stroke requires better understanding of the haemodynamic status in the brain. However, only a few studies have examined cerebral blood flow and metabolism in subjects with silent stroke. Positron emission tomography demonstrated a slight decrease in cortical blood flow with an increase in oxygen extraction fraction (ie misery perfusion) in subjects with silent brain infarction, whereas both cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism decreased in patients with symptomatic brain infarction (matched hypoperfusion). These findings confirm that brain circulation is haemodynamically compromised in subjects with silent stroke. Another important point is that subcortical silent stroke may induce a reduction in cortical blood flow and metabolism by a disconnection mechanism (ie diaschisis) between the cortex and the subcortical structures. Silent infarction is not innocuous in terms of compromised cerebral circulation, which may lead to cognitive decline or subsequent clinical stroke. In the future, further developments in functional imaging will permit a more sophisticated analysis of brain circulation and metabolism in silent stroke."}
{"id": "11294935", "title": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a clinical-pathologic study.", "content": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a clinical-pathologic study. Numerous studies have suggested that temporoparietal hypoperfusion seen on brain imaging with SPECT may be useful in diagnosing AD during life. However, these studies have often been limited by lack of pathologic validation and unrepresentative samples. The authors performed this study to determine whether SPECT imaging provides diagnostically useful information in addition to that obtained from a clinical examination. Clinical data and SPECT images were collected prospectively, and patients were followed to autopsy. Clinical history, pathologic findings, and SPECT images were each evaluated by raters blind to other features, and clinical and SPECT diagnoses were compared with pathologic diagnoses. The study population consisted of 70 patients with dementia, followed to autopsy; 14 controls followed to autopsy; and 71 controls (no autopsy performed). The primary outcome was the likelihood of a pathologic diagnosis of AD given a positive clinical diagnosis, a positive SPECT diagnosis, and both. When all participants (patients and controls) were included in the analysis, the clinical diagnosis of \"probable\" AD was associated with an 84% likelihood of pathologic AD. A positive SPECT scan raised the likelihood of AD to 92%, whereas a negative SPECT scan lowered the likelihood to 70%. SPECT was more useful when the clinical diagnosis was \"possible\" AD, with the likelihood of 67% without SPECT, 84% with a positive SPECT, and 52% with a negative SPECT. Similar results were found when only patients with dementia were included in the analysis. In the evaluation of dementia, SPECT imaging can provide clinically useful information indicating the presence of AD in addition to the information that is obtained from clinical evaluation."}
{"id": "11294039", "title": "[Glutaminergic hypothesis of schizophrenia: clinical research studies with ketamine].", "content": "[Glutaminergic hypothesis of schizophrenia: clinical research studies with ketamine]. Several lines of evidence suggest that the glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is involved in schizophrenia pathophysiology. Post-mortem studies have revealed a lower density of glutamatergic receptors in patients with schizophrenia. Other studies of cerebrospinal fluid reported lower levels of glutamate in patients with schizophrenia in healthy comparison subjects. The most compelling evidence is provided by the psychomimetic effects of the NMDA antagonists phencyclidine and ketamine. Recently, much interest has been given to the study related to the role of NMDA receptor in pathophysiology of schizophrenia by administration of sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine. A phencyclidine hydrochloride derivate, ketamine, is a dissociative anesthetic and a non competitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor. In healthy subjects, ketamine produces: 1) positive symptoms of psychosis, such as illusions, thought disorder and delusions; 2) negative symptoms similar to those associated with schizophrenia including blunted emotional responses, emotional detachment, and psychomotor retardation; 3) cognitive impairments, in particular impairments on tests of frontal cortical function including increased distractibility, reduced verbal fluency and poorer performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. During smooth pursuit eye tracking, ketamine induces nystagmus as well as abnormalities which are among the characteristics of schizophrenia. In patients with schizophrenia, the administration of ketamine produces an activation of their psychotic symptoms, which have striking similarities to symptoms of their usual psychotic episodes. Ketamine effects on memory and other cognitive functions in schizophrenic patients are controversial. The psychomimetic effects of ketamine are transitional, reversible and influenced by time, dose and administration conditions. Susceptibility to the psychotomimetic effects of ketamine is minimal or absent in children and becomes maximal in early adulthood. The similarity between ketamine effects and endogenous psychoses created interest in the capacity of antipsychotic medications to block ketamine effects. Haloperidol failed to block this ketamine-induced psychomimetic effects in healthy subjects and in schizophrenic patients. However, clozapine, the prototype of atypical antipsychotic agents significantly reduced the ketamine-induced increase in positive symptoms in schizophrenic patients. Recently, lamotrigine significantly decreased ketamine-induced positive and negative symptoms in healthy subjects. Brain regions responsible for NMDA-mediated psychosis have not been established. Using positron emission tomography and [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose, the sub-anesthetic ketamine administration produces bilateral increases in metabolic activity in the prefrontal cortex. In a [15O] H2O positron emission tomography study, ketamine selectively increases cerebral blood flow in the anterior cingulate cortex and reduces cerebral blood flow in the hippocampus and primary visual cortex. The mechanism of neuropsychiatric effects of sub-anesthetic ketamine is not clear. A dysfunction in glutamate-dopaminergic interactions has been suggested as a mechanism for these effects of ketamine. Ketamine has been reported to primarily block NMDA receptor complex giving support to a glutamate deficiency hypothesis in schizophrenia. In addition, ketamine caused increases in cortical and striatal synaptic dopamine concentrations. The effects of NMDA receptor antagonist administration are argued to support a neurobiological hypothesis of schizophrenia, which includes pathophysiology within several neurotransmitter systems, manifested in behavioral pathology. Pharmacological modulation of the effects of NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine, may lead to development of novel therapeutic agents for psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia."}
{"id": "11277595", "title": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism and cognitive functioning predict deterioration in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism and cognitive functioning predict deterioration in mild cognitive impairment. The objective of this study was to assess whether reduced glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) and cognitive functioning could predict development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Twenty MCI patients underwent baseline and follow-up investigations of rCMRGlu, as measured by PET, and cognitive function measured by neuropsychological test assessments. Subjects were clinically followed up with an average interval of 36.5 months. Two groups were obtained after the second clinical assessment. Nine patients were diagnosed as AD and classified as progressive MCI (P-MCI), whereas 11 patients remained clinically stable and were classified as stable MCI (S-MCI). There were no differences in demographic variables or baseline MMSE between the two subgroups. Logistic regression indicated the two variables that most effectively predicted future development of AD were rCMRGlu from the left temporoparietal area and performance on the block design. These combined measures gave an optimal 90% correct classification rate, whereas only rCMRGlu or neuropsychology alone gave 75% and 65% correct classification, respectively. Measures of temporoparietal cerebral metabolism and visuospatial function may aid in predicting the evolution to AD for patients with MCI."}
{"id": "11255457", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies studied with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies studied with positron emission tomography. To report a case initially fulfilling the clinical criteria for probable Alzheimer disease, although later clinical features suggested dementia with Lewy bodies. Oxygen 15-labeled positron emission tomograms revealed a pattern of hypometabolism characteristic of Alzheimer disease. At post mortem, there was no evidence of the pathological features of Alzheimer disease, but diffuse cortical Lewy bodies were seen in the pigmented brainstem nuclei and cerebral cortex. A case report. Tertiary referral center. A 65-year-old white man presented with a 3-year history of memory loss and language difficulties. Oxygen 15-labeled positron emission tomograms revealed hypometabolism in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes, more severe on the left than right. Metabolism in the left caudate was just outside the 95% reference range. Occipital metabolism was normal. Positron emission tomographic studies have been reported to show occipital hypometabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies, in addition to the characteristic posterior bitemporal biparietal pattern of Alzheimer disease. We suggest that although this finding may favor a diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies, it is not necessary for diagnosis."}
{"id": "11255453", "title": "The effect of brain atrophy on cerebral hypometabolism in the visual variant of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "The effect of brain atrophy on cerebral hypometabolism in the visual variant of Alzheimer disease. Brain glucose metabolic rates measured by positron emission tomography can be more affected by partial volume effects in Alzheimer disease (AD) than in healthy aging because of disease-associated brain atrophy. To determine whether the distinct distribution of cerebral metabolic lesions in patients with the visual variant of AD (AD + VS) represents a true index of neuronal/synaptic dysfunction or is the consequence of brain atrophy. Government research hospital. Resting cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was measured with positron emission tomography in a cross-sectional study of AD and AD + VS groups and in healthy control subjects. Segmented magnetic resonance images were used to correct for brain atrophy. Patients with AD + VS had prominent visual and visuospatial symptoms. There were 15 patients with AD, 10 with AD + VS, and 37 age-matched control subjects. Measurement of the rate of cerebral glucose metabolism. Before atrophy correction, the AD + VS group, compared with the control subjects, showed hypometabolism in primary and extrastriate visual areas and in parietal and superior temporal cortical areas. Compared with the AD group, the AD + VS group showed hypometabolism in visual association areas. After atrophy correction, hypometabolism remained significantly different between patients and controls and between the 2 AD groups. The reductions in cerebral hypometabolism represent a true loss of functional activity and are not simply an artifact caused by brain atrophy. The different patterns of hypometabolism indicate the differential development of the lesions between the AD and AD + VS groups."}
{"id": "11248079", "title": "Declining brain activity in cognitively normal apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 heterozygotes: A foundation for using positron emission tomography to efficiently test treatments to prevent Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Declining brain activity in cognitively normal apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 heterozygotes: A foundation for using positron emission tomography to efficiently test treatments to prevent Alzheimer's disease. Cross-sectional positron emission tomography (PET) studies find that cognitively normal carriers of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele, a common Alzheimer's susceptibility gene, have abnormally low measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in the same regions as patients with Alzheimer's dementia. In this article, we characterize longitudinal CMRgl declines in cognitively normal epsilon4 heterozygotes, estimate the power of PET to test the efficacy of treatments to attenuate these declines in 2 years, and consider how this paradigm could be used to efficiently test the potential of candidate therapies for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease. We studied 10 cognitively normal epsilon4 heterozygotes and 15 epsilon4 noncarriers 50-63 years of age with a reported family history of Alzheimer's dementia before and after an interval of approximately 2 years. The epsilon4 heterozygotes had significant CMRgl declines in the vicinity of temporal, posterior cingulate, and prefrontal cortex, basal forebrain, parahippocampal gyrus, and thalamus, and these declines were significantly greater than those in the epsilon4 noncarriers. In testing candidate primary prevention therapies, we estimate that between 50 and 115 cognitively normal epsilon4 heterozygotes are needed per active and placebo treatment group to detect a 25% attenuation in these CMRgl declines with 80% power and P = 0.005 in 2 years. Assuming these CMRgl declines are related to the predisposition to Alzheimer's dementia, this study provides a paradigm for testing the potential of treatments to prevent the disorder without having to study thousands of research subjects or wait many years to determine whether or when treated individuals develop symptoms."}
{"id": "11244212", "title": "Occipital glucose metabolism in dementia with lewy bodies with and without Parkinsonism: a study using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Occipital glucose metabolism in dementia with lewy bodies with and without Parkinsonism: a study using positron emission tomography. Reduction of glucose metabolism in the occipital lobe is reported in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease. If dysfunction of the nigrostriatal system is responsible for occipital hypometabolism, (1) DLB patients with parkinsonism would show a lower occipital metabolism than do patients without parkinsonism, and (2) DLB patients without parkinsonism would show an occipital metabolism comparable to those of normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To examine these hypotheses, we studied the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) in patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB or AD, using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. The subjects consisted of 15 DLB patients with parkinsonism, 7 DLB patients without parkinsonism and 7 AD patients without parkinsonism. The medial and lateral occipital rCMRglc was significantly lower in the DLB patients without parkinsonism than in the AD patients. There were no significant differences in occipital metabolic rates between the DLB groups with and without parkinsonism. DLB patients without parkinsonism showed a significant reduction of occipital glucose metabolism which is comparable with that of DLB patients with parkinsonism. The neurobiological bases of occipital hypometabolism in DLB may be pathological processes in the brainstem or basal forebrain structures other than the nigrostriatal system."}
{"id": "11240589", "title": "Focal functional deficits in temporal lobe epilepsy on PET scans and the intracarotid amobarbital procedure: comparison of patients with unitemporal epilepsy with those requiring intracranial recordings.", "content": "Focal functional deficits in temporal lobe epilepsy on PET scans and the intracarotid amobarbital procedure: comparison of patients with unitemporal epilepsy with those requiring intracranial recordings. To analyze the relationship between the intracarotid amobarbital procedure (IAP) and positron emission tomography (PET) and study the lateralizing value of these tests in patients with unitemporal epilepsy and those requiring intracranial recordings. We compared 51 patients with unitemporal epilepsy (group1) with 26 patients in whom surface recordings failed to reveal a distinct unitemporal focus, necessitating invasive recordings (group 2). The brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans for group 1 showed mesial temporal sclerosis in 70.5% of the patients. PET showed unilateral temporal hypometabolism in 88%. In addition, 74.5% of the patients in group 1 had impaired memory on the epileptogenic side on the IAP, and 89.4% of those patients also had ipsilateral temporal hypometabolism on PET scans. All the group 1 patients underwent temporal resections. The pathologic examination showed hippocampal sclerosis in 72% of the patients. Eighty percent of group 1 patients became seizure free, and 16% had rare seizures (follow-up, 2-7 years). MRIs for group 2 showed mesial temporal sclerosis in 31% of the patients; PET scans showed temporal hypometabolism in 39%. The IAP was lateralized in 47.8%. Sixty-nine percent had temporal lobe resections. The pathologic examination showed hippocampal sclerosis in 44% of the patients. Forty-four percent of group 2 patients became seizure free, and 27.7% had rare seizures (follow-up, 2-8 years). Ninety-six percent of the patients with unitemporal foci had focal functional deficits on the epileptogenic side on 18-fluorodeoxyglucose-(FDG) PET scans, the IAP, or both. The results of the FDG-PET were predictive of impaired memory on the IAP. Memory impairment contralateral to the temporal hypometabolism found on the PET scans was never seen. These patients had an excellent outcome. In contrast, <50% of the patients requiring intracranial recordings had focal functional deficits, suggesting that more a diffuse pathology may account for their less favorable outcome."}
{"id": "11230872", "title": "Imaging brain cholinergic activity with positron emission tomography: its role in the evaluation of cholinergic treatments in Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Imaging brain cholinergic activity with positron emission tomography: its role in the evaluation of cholinergic treatments in Alzheimer's dementia. One of the strategies in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is the use of drugs that enhance cholinergic brain function, since it is believed that cholinergic dysfunction is one of the factors that contributes to cognitive deterioration. Positron emission tomography is a medical imaging method that can be used to measure the concentration, kinetics, and distribution of cholinergic-enhancing drugs directly in the human brain and assess the effects of the drugs at markers of cholinergic cell viability (vesicular transporters, acetylcholinesterase), at muscarininc and nicotinic receptors, at extracellular acetylcholine, at markers of brain function (glucose metabolism and blood flow), and on amyloid plaque burden in vivo in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. In addition, these measures can be applied to assess the drugs' pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties in the human brain. Since the studies are done in living human subjects, positron emission tomography can evaluate the relationship between the drugs' biological, behavioral, and cognitive effects; monitor changes in brain function in response to chronic treatment; and determine if pharmacologic interventions are neuroprotective. Moreover, because positron emission tomography has the potential to identify Alzheimer's disease during early disease, it can be used to establish whether early interventions can prevent or delay further development."}
{"id": "11177754", "title": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: relevance for treatment.", "content": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: relevance for treatment. Neuroimaging methodologies have shown some of their greatest promise in studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Imaging outcome measures are now entering the arena of investigational trials for AD, to elucidate treatment mechanisms, optimize drug dosing, and perhaps serve as surrogate efficacy measures. Drugs that enhance central cholinergic neurotransmission have been extensively examined for their effects on regional cerebral blood flow, regional cerebral glucose metabolism, or levels of N-acetyl-aspartate in AD patients. Putative disease-modifying agents will be studied by structural magnetic resonance imaging for their ability to reduce rates of hippocampal or whole brain atrophy. When anti-amyloid therapies reach widespread clinical testing, their effects may be monitored by specific imaging probes for amyloid-beta peptide-containing senile plaques. Neuroimaging studies of AD patients and asymptomatic subjects who carry the apolipoprotein E e4 allele suggest that these individuals may be particularly suitable for testing candidate prevention therapies for AD."}
{"id": "11173892", "title": "Relationship between both IQ and Mini-Mental State Examination and the regional cerebral glucose metabolism in clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease: a PET study.", "content": "Relationship between both IQ and Mini-Mental State Examination and the regional cerebral glucose metabolism in clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease: a PET study. In order to clarify the hypofunction in which brain areas demonstrate a decline in Intelligence Quotient (IQ), we examined correlations between the IQ and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) measured using positron emission tomography (PET) in 26 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD). The MMSE scores and full-scale IQ (FSIQ) showed significant correlations with the rCMRglc in the temporal and parietal lobes on both sides and in the left frontal lobe, which were significantly reduced in comparison to those in the normal controls. A multiple regression analysis showed only the MMSE score to predict verbal IQ (VIQ), performance IQ (PIQ) and FSIQ. VIQ was also predicted by the rCMRglc in the left parietal lobe, while PIQ was predicted by the age at onset. The results suggested MMSE to be an index of dementia severity reflected by general intelligence as shown by IQ in AD, and a reduction in the VIQ can thus be used as an index of the left parietal dysfunction, which is not expressed by MMSE."}
{"id": "11173879", "title": "Dementia with impaired temporal glucose metabolism in late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy.", "content": "Dementia with impaired temporal glucose metabolism in late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy. An unusual case of very-late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) with dementia was studied. The patient was a 41-year-old male who presented with mild dementia and a single generalized tonic clonic seizure. Neuropsychological assessment demonstrated mild amnesia, visuospatial dysfunction and attention deficits with a slow psychomotor speed. MR brain imaging displayed confluent hyperintensities of periventricular and subcortical white matter. Low levels of arylsulfatase A confirmed the diagnosis. Impaired cortical glucose metabolism especially of the medial temporal and frontal cortices was observed using positron emission tomography and fluor-18-labeled fluorodesoxyglucose. The neuropsychological deficits are related to the location of deficits in glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "11125237", "title": "Neuronal substrates for semantic memory: a positron emission tomography study in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuronal substrates for semantic memory: a positron emission tomography study in Alzheimer's disease. We examined 57 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease by using three kinds of verbal semantic memory tests (category fluency, confrontation naming and generation of verbal definition) and correlated each score with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. The scores of all three verbal semantic memory tests correlated significantly with regional cerebral glucose metabolism in the left inferior temporal gyrus, even after controlling for the effects of age, sex and educational attainment. In contrast, the scores of the word recall test did not correlate significantly with regional cerebral glucose metaboliosm in the left inferior temporal gyrus, neither before nor after controlling for these confounders. Our results suggested that the left inferior temporal lobe contributes to verbal semantic memory."}
{"id": "11458998", "title": "In-vivo measurements of regional acetylcholine esterase activity in degenerative dementia: comparison with blood flow and glucose metabolism.", "content": "In-vivo measurements of regional acetylcholine esterase activity in degenerative dementia: comparison with blood flow and glucose metabolism. Memory and attention are cognitive functions that depend heavily on the cholinergic system. Local activity of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) is an indicator of its integrity. Using a recently developed tracer for positron emission tomography (PET), C-11-labeled N-methyl-4-piperidyl-acetate (C11-MP4A), we measured regional AChE activity in 4 non-demented subjects, 4 patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) and 1 patient with senile dementia of Lewy body type (SDLT), and compared the findings with measurements of blood flow (CBF) and glucose metabolism (CMRGlc). Initial tracer extraction was closely related to CBF. AChE activity was reduced significantly in all brain regions in demented subjects, whereas reduction of CMRGlc and CBF was more limited to temporo-parietal association areas. AChE activity in SDLT was in the lower range of values in DAT. Our results indicate that, compared to non-demented controls, there is a global reduction of cortical AChE activity in dementia. Dementia, cholinergic system, acetylcholine esterase, positron emission tomography, cerebral blood flow, cerebral glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "11215401", "title": "[Neuronal cell damage in aceruloplasminemia].", "content": "[Neuronal cell damage in aceruloplasminemia]. Aceruloplasminemia is a newly recognized autosomal recessive disorder of iron metabolism that causes neurodegeneration of the retina and basal ganglia, as well as diabetes mellitus. The neurological symptoms in affected patients include involuntary movements, ataxia, and dementia reflecting the sites of iron deposition detected by MRI, and the regions of neurodegeneration observed at autopsy. Excess iron functions as a potent catalyst of biologic oxidation. CSF from affected patients revealed a threefold increased iron concentration associated with increased superoxide dismutase activity and lipid peroxidation products. We found that the amount of iron accumulated in various regions of the brain and visceral organs is correlated with the levels of the oxysterols, including 7-hydroxycholesterol, and 7-ketocholesterol, which are directly produced from cholesterol by active oxygen species. Positron emission tomography done on brains of aceruloplasminemia patients showed cortical glucose hypometabolism. Enzyme activities in the mitochondrial respiratory chain of the cerebral cortices of the patients were reduced to approximate 62% and 71%, respectively, for complexes I and IV. These findings suggest that iron-mediated free radicals contribute to lipid peroxidation and the impairment of mitochondrial energy metabolism in aceruloplasminemia."}
{"id": "11148954", "title": "MR and PET vie in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "MR and PET vie in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "11147408", "title": "Evolution of temporal lobe hypoperfusion in transient global amnesia: a serial single photon emission computed tomography study.", "content": "Evolution of temporal lobe hypoperfusion in transient global amnesia: a serial single photon emission computed tomography study. Previous functional neuroimaging studies performed during transient global amnesia (TGA) have not answered the central question regarding the etiology of TGA, namely: whether the observed hypoperfusion in the mesial temporal lobe structures reflects a primarily ischemic process or whether it represents a secondary phenomenon resulting from locally decreased metabolism. The authors performed Tc 99-m-bicisate brain single photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning in a 66-year-old man during an episode of TGA, 24 hours after the episode and 3 months after the episode. To the authors' knowledge, this is the only reported study in which a follow-up SPECT scan was performed within 24 hours. The initial study showed bilateral mesial temporal lobe hypoperfusion that partially resolved after 24 hours and returned to normal at 3 months. Resolution of the SPECT scan abnormalities correlated well with resolution of the memory loss. These findings agree with previously reported SPECT, positron-emission tomography (PET), and diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies that indicate the mesial temporal lobe structures as the major site of pathology in TGA. The authors suggest that a process causing decreased local metabolism, such as cortical spreading depression, constitutes the primary pathophysiologic mechanism in this case."}
{"id": "11145458", "title": "Neurobiological basis of behavioral and psychological symptoms in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Neurobiological basis of behavioral and psychological symptoms in dementia of the Alzheimer type. Recent dementia studies indicate that behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are not merely an epiphenomenon of cognitive impairment, but could be attributed to specific biological brain dysfunction. We describe findings from different research modalities related with BPSD (psychopathological, neuropsychological, neurochemical, and psychophysiological strategies), and attempt to reconcile them into the more integrated form. Characteristics of delusions in dementia patients should be studied in more detail from a psychopathological aspect, aiming for the integration of psychopathology and neurobiology. Imperfect integration of memory function and cognitive function, assigned to the limbic systems and association areas, respectively, may result in BPSD. More intimate collaboration of psychopathological and neurobiological study would be fruitful to promote the research in psychological basis of BPSD. Neurochemical studies indicated that density of extracellular tangles and/or PHF-tau protein have relationships with delusion or misidentification. These changes in neurochemical parameters should be the key to understanding the pathogenesis of BPSD. More importantly, neurochemical and psychological study could be linked by the research in psychophysiology. Computer-assisted electroencephalogram analysis suggests that the right posterior hemisphere shows significant age-associated change earlier than the left in the elderly. Cerebral metabolic rate by positron emission tomography study indicates that paralimbic, left medial temporal, and left medial occipital area are involved in pathogenesis of BPSD in some dementia patients."}
{"id": "11130527", "title": "Motor and cognitive improvements in patients with Huntington's disease after neural transplantation.", "content": "Motor and cognitive improvements in patients with Huntington's disease after neural transplantation. Huntington's disease is a neurodegenerative disease of genetic origin that mainly affects the striatum. It has severe motor and cognitive consequences and, up to now, no treatment. Motor and cognitive functions can be restored in experimental animal models by means of intrastriatal transplantation of fetal striatal neuroblasts. We explored whether grafts of human fetal striatal tissue could survive and have detectable effects in five patients with mild to moderate Huntington's disease. After 2 years of preoperative assessment, patients were grafted with human fetal neuroblasts into the right striatum then, after a year, the left striatum. Final results were assessed 1 year later on the basis of neurological, neuropsychological, neurophysiological, and psychiatric tests. The results obtained were compared with those of a cohort of 22 untreated patients at similar stages of the disease who were followed up in parallel. Repeated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with fluorine-18-labelled fluorodeoxyglucose was also done to assess metabolic activity. The final PET-scan assessment showed increased metabolic activity in various subnuclei of the striatum in three of five patients, contrasting with the progressive decline recorded in the two other patients in the series, as seen in patients with untreated Huntington's disease. Small areas of even higher metabolic activity, coregistering with spherical hyposignals on MRI were also present in the same three patients, suggesting that grafts were functional. Accordingly, motor and cognitive functions were improved or maintained within the normal range, and functional benefits were seen in daily-life activities in these three patients, but not in the other two. Fetal neural allografts could be associated with functional, motor, and cognitive improvements in patients with Huntington's disease."}
{"id": "11128979", "title": "Preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic leiomyosarcoma.", "content": "Preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic leiomyosarcoma. The low incidence of pancreatic leiomyosarcoma is responsible for the small number of cases correctly diagnosed preoperatively, the tumor being frequently confused with benign pancreatic lesions. We describe a symptom free 52-yr-old male bearing an abdominal mass incidentally found at physical examination. Imaging techniques revealed a nonhomogenous large mass at the head of the pancreas that dislodged the portal vein and the superior mesenteric vein. Increased metabolic activity in the tumor area demonstrated by 18F-fluorodeoxyglicose positron emission tomography scan allowed the diagnosis of a malignant lesion. The patient was operated on and a pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy performed. The pathology diagnosis was a low grade leiomyosarcoma. Immunohistochemistry revealed positivity for vimentin and smooth muscle specific actin. The clinical course was uneventful after 2 yr follow-up. Pancreatic leiomyosarcoma may be preoperatively diagnosed by image techniques and differentiated from benign lesions by means of fluorodeoxyglicose positron emission tomography scanning (FDGPET)."}
{"id": "11123521", "title": "Neural basis of alertness and cognitive performance impairments during sleepiness. I. Effects of 24 h of sleep deprivation on waking human regional brain activity.", "content": "Neural basis of alertness and cognitive performance impairments during sleepiness. I. Effects of 24 h of sleep deprivation on waking human regional brain activity. The negative effects of sleep deprivation on alertness and cognitive performance suggest decreases in brain activity and function, primarily in the thalamus, a subcortical structure involved in alertness and attention, and in the prefrontal cortex, a region subserving alertness, attention, and higher-order cognitive processes. To test this hypothesis, 17 normal subjects were scanned for quantifiable brain activity changes during 85 h of sleep deprivation using positron emission tomography (PET) and (18)Fluorine-2-deoxyglucose ((18)FDG), a marker for regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglu) and neuronal synaptic activity. Subjects were scanned prior to and at 24-h intervals during the sleep deprivation period, for a total of four scans per subject. During each 30 min (18)FDG uptake, subjects performed a sleep deprivation-sensitive Serial Addition/Subtraction task. Polysomnographic monitoring confirmed that subjects were awake. Twenty-four hours of sleep deprivation, reported here, resulted in a significant decrease in global CMRglu, and significant decreases in absolute regional CMRglu in several cortical and subcortical structures. No areas of the brain evidenced a significant increase in absolute regional CMRglu. Significant decreases in relative regional CMRglu, reflecting regional brain reductions greater than the global decrease, occurred predominantly in the thalamus and prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices. Alertness and cognitive performance declined in association with these brain deactivations. This study provides evidence that short-term sleep deprivation produces global decreases in brain activity, with larger reductions in activity in the distributed cortico-thalamic network mediating attention and higher-order cognitive processes, and is complementary to studies demonstrating deactivation of these cortical regions during NREM and REM sleep."}
{"id": "11117843", "title": "Cerebral circulation and metabolism in the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral circulation and metabolism in the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The mechanism of reduction of cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients in the acute stage of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has not yet been fully clarified. The goal of this study was to elucidate this mechanism further. The authors estimated cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), O2 extraction fraction (OEF), and cerebral blood volume (CBV) preoperatively in eight patients with aneurysmal SAH (one man and seven women, mean age 63.5 years) within 40 hours of onset by using positron emission tomography (PET). The patients' CBF, CMRO2, and CBF/CBV were significantly lower than those in normal control volunteers. However, OEF and CBV did not differ significantly from those in control volunteers. The significant decrease in CBF/CBV, which indicates reduced cerebral perfusion pressure, was believed to be caused by impaired cerebral circulation due to elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) after rupture of the aneurysm. In two of the eight patients, uncoupling between CBF and CMRO2 was shown, strongly suggesting the presence of cerebral ischemia. The initial reduction in CBF due to elevated ICP, followed by reduction in CMRO, at the time of aneurysm rupture may play a role in the disturbance of CBF and cerebral metabolism in the acute stage of aneurysmal SAH."}
{"id": "11090722", "title": "Combined semantic dementia and apraxia in a patient with frontotemporal lobar degeneration.", "content": "Combined semantic dementia and apraxia in a patient with frontotemporal lobar degeneration. In this study we report neuropsychological and brain-imaging findings in a patient with frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Brain imaging using registration of (18)fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET data to three-dimensional (3-D) magnetic resonance imaging showed atrophy and highly significant hypometabolism of the left temporal lobe and both frontal lobes. Volumetric measurements of the hippocampi/amygdala showed a reduction in volume of 25% on the left compared to right within cortical areas. Neuropsychological testing revealed semantic dementia with severe anomia as well as apraxia with impairment of both recognition and production of motor acts. The implications of this case of early manifestation of frontotemporal lobar degeneration for our knowledge of dementia are discussed."}
{"id": "11079505", "title": "FDG PET imaging in patients with pathologically verified dementia.", "content": "FDG PET imaging in patients with pathologically verified dementia. The purpose of this study was to confirm with pathologic verification 2 beliefs related to Alzheimer's disease (AD): (a) the long-standing impression that bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism, as noted on FDG PET imaging, is the metabolic abnormality associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and (b) that the sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of the metabolic pattern of bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism allows differentiation between other degenerative causes of dementia. Twenty two individuals (8 women, 14 men) with difficult-to-characterize memory loss or dementia (using standard clinical criteria), and who eventually received pathologic confirmation of diagnosis, were evaluated. FDG PET brain scans were obtained and visually graded by an experienced nuclear medicine physician as to the presence of classic bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism as seen in Alzheimer's type dementia. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic accuracy of the metabolic pattern of bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism were determined using pathologic diagnosis as the gold standard. The clinical diagnosis of possible or probable AD was determined as the primary cause of dementia in 12 patients. The sensitivity and specificity of the clinical diagnosis for probable AD were 63% and 100%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of the clinical diagnosis for possible and probable AD were 75% and 100%, respectively. The sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism being associated with AD were 93%, 63%, and 82%, respectively. This study confirms that bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism is indeed the classic metabolic abnormality associated with AD. Furthermore, in individuals with dementia whose FDG PET scans indicated a metabolic pattern other than bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism, a cause of dementia other than AD should be suspected. These observations may be of clinical importance in differentiating dementia syndromes. The sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of FDG PET are acceptable as tests to be used in the evaluation of dementia and particularly to confirm the clinical suspicion of AD."}
{"id": "11079492", "title": "Does cerebral blood flow decline in healthy aging? A PET study with partial-volume correction.", "content": "Does cerebral blood flow decline in healthy aging? A PET study with partial-volume correction. It remains a matter of controversy as to whether cerebral perfusion declines with healthy aging. In vivo imaging with PET permits quantitative evaluation of brain physiology; however, previous PET studies have inconsistently reported aging reductions in cerebral blood flow (CBF), oxygen metabolism, and glucose metabolism. In part, this may be because of a lack of correction for the dilution effect of age-related cerebral volume loss on PET measurements. CBF PET scans were obtained using [15O]H2O in 27 healthy individuals (age range, 19-76 y) and corrected for partial-volume effects from cerebral atrophy using an MR-based algorithm. There was a significant difference (P = 0.01) in mean cortical CBF between young/midlife (age range, 19-46 y; mean +/- SD, 56+/-10 mL/100 mL/min) and elderly (age range, 60-76 y; mean +/- SD, 49+/-2.6 mL/100 mL/min) subgroups before correcting for partial-volume effects. However, this group difference resolved after partial-volume correction (young/midlife: mean +/- SD, 62+/-10 mL/100 mL/min; elderly: mean +/- SD, 61+/-4.8 mL/100 mL/min; P = 0.66). When all subjects were considered, a mild but significant inverse correlation between age and cortical CBF measurements was present in the uncorrected but not the corrected data. This study suggests that CBF may not decline with age in healthy individuals and that failure to correct for the dilution effect of age-related cerebral atrophy may confound interpretation of previous PET studies that have shown aging reductions in physiologic measurements."}
{"id": "11074792", "title": "Potential time course of human immunodeficiency virus type 1-associated minor motor deficits: electrophysiologic and positron emission tomography findings.", "content": "Potential time course of human immunodeficiency virus type 1-associated minor motor deficits: electrophysiologic and positron emission tomography findings. We tested whether metabolic abnormalities in the prefrontal-striatal circuitry as demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET) were present in patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) with HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits as demonstrated by quantitative motor testing. We examined 19 HIV-1-positive patients, covering the range from normal results of quantitative motor testing to clearly pathologic psychomotor slowing indicative of HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits. None fulfilled the clinical criteria for HIV-1-associated dementia. Results were compared with those of 15 healthy volunteers. All subjects underwent clinical examination, routine magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and electrophysiologic motor testing at the time of PET. Seven HIV-1-positive patients showed significant hypermetabolism in the basal ganglia. Nine patients showed a significant frontomesial hypometabolism. The data of our cross-sectional study strongly suggest a characteristic time course in the development of HIV-1-associated minor motor deficits. Hypermetabolism in the basal ganglia is associated initially with normal motor performance. Moderate motor slowing appears at a later stage when basal ganglia hypermetabolism drops toward hypometabolism. More severe functional deficits and highly pathologic motor slowing become manifest when hypometabolism is most widespread in the basal ganglia. This stage leads to dementia."}
{"id": "11051227", "title": "Lung cancer proliferation correlates with [F-18]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Lung cancer proliferation correlates with [F-18]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake by positron emission tomography. Tumor proliferation has prognostic value in resected early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We evaluated whether [F-18]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake of NSCLC correlates with tumor proliferation and, thus, could noninvasively grade NSCLCs (refining patient prognosis and therapy). Thirty-nine patients with potentially resectable NSCLC underwent whole-body FDG positron emission tomography (PET) 45 min after i.v. injection of 10 mCi of FDG. Tumor FDG uptake was quantitated with the maximum pixel standardized uptake value (maxSUV). The lesion diameter from computed tomography was used to correct the maxSUV for partial volume effects using recovery coefficients determined for the General Electric Advance PET scanner. Thirty-eight patients underwent complete surgical staging (bronchoscopy and mediastinoscopy, with or without thoracotomy). One stage IV patient by PET underwent bronchoscopic biopsy only. Immunohistochemistry for Ki-67 (proliferation index marker) was performed on all of the 39 NSCLC specimens (35 resections, 1 percutaneous, and 3 surgical biopsies). The specimens were reviewed for cellular differentiation (poor, moderate, well) and tumor type. Lesions ranged from 0.7 to 6.1 cm. The correlation found between uncorrected maxSUV and lesion size (Rho, 0.56; P = 0.0006) disappeared when applying the recovery coefficients (Rho, -0.035; P = 0.83). Ki-67 expression (percentage of positive cells) correlated strongly with FDG uptake (corrected maxSUV: Rho, 0.73; P < 0.0001). The correlation was stronger for stage I lesions (11 stage IA, 15 stage IB): Rho, 0.79; P < 0.0001) and strongest in stage IB (Rho, 0.83; P = 0.0019). A significant association (P < 0.0001) between tumor differentiation and corrected SUV was noted. FDG PET may be used to noninvasively assess NSCLC proliferation in vivo, identifying rapidly growing NSCLCs with poor prognosis that could benefit from preoperative chemotherapy."}
{"id": "11018498", "title": "Spatial pattern of cerebral glucose metabolism (PET) correlates with localization of intracerebral EEG-generators in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Spatial pattern of cerebral glucose metabolism (PET) correlates with localization of intracerebral EEG-generators in Alzheimer's disease. Since the measurement of human cerebral glucose metabolism (GluM) by positron emission tomography (PET) and that of human cerebral electrical activity by EEG reflect synaptic activity, both methods should be related in their cerebral spatial distribution. Healthy subjects do indeed demonstrate similar metabolic and neuroelectric spatial patterns. The aim of the study was to show that this similarity of GluM and EEG spatial patterns holds true in a population with a high variability of glucose metabolism. We investigated healthy control subjects and patients with varying degrees of cognitive dysfunction and varying GluM patterns by applying [18F]FDG PET and EEG. We demonstrated that the localization of intracerebral generators of EEG correlates with spatial indices of GluM. These results indicates that EEG provides similar spatial information about brain function as GluM-PET. Since EEG is a non-invasive technique, which is more widely available and can be repeated more often than PET, this may have important implications both for neuropsychiatric research and for clinical diagnosis. However, further studies are required to determine whether equivalent EEG dipole generators can yield a diagnostic specificity and sensitivity similar to that of GluM-PET."}
{"id": "11011970", "title": "Frontal lobe tasks do not reflect frontal lobe function in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe tasks do not reflect frontal lobe function in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Thirty-one patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria were psychometrically tested with various frontal lobe tasks. The results were correlated with regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRG1) as measured by positron emission tomography of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. RCMRG1 of frontal functional-anatomically defined regions was not linked to the performance seen in frontal lobe testing. The majority of the frontal lobe tasks showed a high correlation to severity of dementia that was related to rCMRG1 of the temporo-parietal cortex. There were high intercorrelations of frontal lobe test scores to other tests. Thus, these tasks seem to measure nonspecific cognitive changes in AD patients."}
{"id": "11002357", "title": "Functional neuroanatomy of amnesia: positron emission tomography studies.", "content": "Functional neuroanatomy of amnesia: positron emission tomography studies. In this article, we review the principles of, and provide examples for, the new approach of functional neuropsychology in the field of amnesia. In the permanent amnesic syndrome, positron emission tomography (PET) can provide statistical maps of the brain regions with significantly impaired resting metabolism in comparison with control subjects. These regions include not only Papez's circuit but also the left supramarginal gyrus, which may explain in part the retrograde amnesia present in most cases of amnesic syndrome. This approach is also of great interest in transient global amnesia (TGA) because the defect of episodic memory is highly selective and occurs without permanent damage. The few available PET studies in TGA suggest the dysfunction of a distributed network including the hippocampal region and the prefrontal cortex, with a different pattern individually. Further studies will be necessary to better understand the relationships between the precise cognitive deficits in TGA and the pattern of brain hypometabolism. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the study of the correlations between memory test scores and metabolic values across a sample of subjects provides a map of those brain structures whose synaptic pathology dysfunction underlies the particular neuropsychological alteration. The distribution of the sites of correlations shows striking differences according to each memory system. This approach should open the way for the unravelling of the neurobiological substrates of both cognitive impairment and compensatory mechanisms in neurodegenerative diseases. Over and above their applications in neurological research, such studies in brain-diseased subjects are particularly useful for establishing cognitive and neurobiological models of human memory, because they allow the highlighting of the neural networks that are essential for memory function. From a cognitive neuroscience perspective, the functional neuropsychology of amnesia is, therefore, complementary to the classic activation paradigm in normal subjects, which identifies the cerebral structures that are involved with, but not necessarily indispensable for, the execution of the task."}
{"id": "10994014", "title": "Effect of estrogen on cerebral glucose metabolism in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Effect of estrogen on cerebral glucose metabolism in postmenopausal women. PET was used to evaluate the effect of estrogen use on regional cerebral glucose metabolism in postmenopausal women. Women receiving estrogen replacement therapy (ERT+), women not receiving estrogen (ERT-), and women with AD were studied. The ERT- group showed metabolic ratios that were intermediate to the ERT+ and AD groups, although they did not show any signs of cognitive impairment. These findings show an effect of estrogen depletion on brain metabolic activity."}
{"id": "10969937", "title": "Transparahippocampal selective amygdalohippocampectomy in children and adolescents: efficacy of the procedure and cognitive morbidity in patients.", "content": "Transparahippocampal selective amygdalohippocampectomy in children and adolescents: efficacy of the procedure and cognitive morbidity in patients. Unilateral resection of the hippocampus and amygdala can be used to treat medically intractable mesial temporal lobe seizures. To date seizure outcome and the extent of cognitive morbidity have been unknown in children following the transparahippocampal variation of selective amygdalohippocampectomy (TSA), which prompted the present prospective study. Preoperative examinations and outcomes in 22 consecutive children and adolescents who underwent TSA were studied. Cognitive and psychological morbidity were assessed using standard neuropsychological instruments. The authors evaluated relationships between seizure control and cognitive morbidity and 13 and nine clinical variables, respectively. Seizure control was achieved in 11 (65%) of 17 patients (>2 years follow up). Among 13 clinical variables, the only preoperative finding that had a significant bearing on seizure control was the presence of unilateral hypometabolism, which could be observed on [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography scans (p<0.001). Patients with seizure control showed significant improvements in verbal and full scale intelligence quotients (both p = 0.05). Patients with longer preoperative durations of seizures exhibited more cognitive impairment that persisted postoperatively. Cognitive outcome analysis based on nine clinical factors revealed no significant difference in cognitive parameters postoperatively, except that significant improvement occurred in rote verbal memory scores among patients who underwent right-sided TSA (p = 0.01). Individually, 81% of the children achieved significant improvement in at least one of seven cognitive parameters, and 52% had stable or improved scores in all parameters. The results indicate that TSA is a safe effective approach for the treatment of medically intractable mesial temporal lobe seizures in children with minimum effect on cognitive morbidity. Given that the literature suggests that children suffer progressive cognitive morbidity from persistent seizures, the results of this study support early surgical intervention for this group of children."}
{"id": "10969905", "title": "Arg133Cys mutation of Notch3 in two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL.", "content": "Arg133Cys mutation of Notch3 in two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL. More than 80 unrelated, but all Caucasian, patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), originating from various communities around the world, have been molecularly identified. To clarify the occurrence of CADASIL in Orientals, we investigated Japanese families presenting as CADASIL. We performed the PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses using genomic DNA, isolated from venous blood of participants under informed consent. We identified two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL, including 5 affected members through 2 generations. Each of the affected individuals developed recurrent strokes without risk factors resulting in progressive dementia, pseudobulbar palsy, and gait disturbances which started after the fifth decade of life. Although affected individuals had no vascular risk factors, they showed various degrees of narrowing of retinal arteries. Their MRI/CTs showed characteristics of the disease; bilateral small infarcts in the thalamus, basal ganglia, brain stem, and deep white matter in addition to the findings of leukoaraiosis. On SPECT imaging, there was severe hypoperfusion in the cortex as well as in the white matter. Ultrastructural studies revealed an abnormal deposition of granular osmiophilic materials (GOM) within the basal lamina of pericytes in muscular capillaries. On PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses, a heterozygous Arg133Cys mutation was present, in the affected individuals, in the exon 4 of Notch3 gene which is the hot spot region for CADASIL mutations in Caucasian families. None of the non-affected members nor the 50 Japanese normal controls revealed this mutation. Thus, our results confirm that CADASIL is a geographically widespread disorder caused by a Notch3 mutation."}
{"id": "10965365", "title": "[New insights in frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[New insights in frontotemporal dementia]. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by progressive behavioural disturbance, aphasia and a decline in frontal cognitive functions. Frontotemporal atrophy on CT and MRI, and hypoperfusion of the frontal brain regions on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), are characteristic findings. Neuropathological examination reveals deposition of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein in neurons and glial cells in a number of the sporadic and familial cases, while aspecific changes with neuronal loss, spongiosis and gliosis are found in the remaining cases. A familial form with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance is seen in 20% of FTD patients. Mutations in the tau gene have been identified in a number of families with deposition of abnormal tau protein in affected brain regions. Presymptomatic DNA testing is now available for relatives of patients with tau mutations, but must only be considered after extensive genetic counselling in a centre with neurogenetic expertise."}
{"id": "10944013", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in healthy volunteers determined by fluordeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: appearance and variance in the transaxial, coronal, and sagittal planes.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in healthy volunteers determined by fluordeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: appearance and variance in the transaxial, coronal, and sagittal planes. In this study, the contribution of the transaxial, coronal, and sagittal planes in evaluations of regional cerebral glucose metabolism was investigated in healthy volunteers as determined by fluorine-18-labeled 2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) and high-resolution positron emission tomography (PET). One hundred twenty-seven healthy right-handed volunteers were injected with 4.2 MBq/kg (0.11 mCi) body weight FDG and imaged in a PENN PET H 240 scanner. Images were corrected for scatter and random coincidences and reconstructed in all three planes into 6- to 8-mm-thick slices. The reconstructed images were corrected for attenuation using the Chang algorithm. The transverse, coronal, and sagittal images were read independently of each other using a qualitative scale in which 1 = equal to, 2 = mildly, 3 = moderately, and 4 = markedly less than the area with the highest glucose metabolism in the respective plane. The areas with the highest glucose metabolisms were the posterior cingulate gyri with mean scores of 1.1 to 1.2, thalami (1.2 to 1.3), basal ganglia (1.5 to 1.9), and visual cortex (1.6). The lowest values were found in the occipital cortex (2.7 to 2.8) and the cerebellum (2.3 to 2.4). Whereas reliable analysis of the mesial temporal aspects was not feasible in the sagittal plane, the anterior poles of the temporal and frontal lobes could not be evaluated in the coronal or the inferior temporal areas in the transaxial slices. In all three planes, regional glucose metabolism was less in the lateral temporal areas on the left than on the right (P < 0.001). The consistency of readings as measured in terms of coefficients of variation was greatest in the coronal plane for the caudates and posterior cingulate gyri, in the transaxial plane for the lateral temporal regions, and in the sagittal plane for the visual cortex. Age-dependent decreases in regional glucose metabolism in the inferior and lateral frontal regions and the parietal lobes were found in all three planes. All three projection planes must be used for a comprehensive qualitative evaluation of the regional glucose metabolism of the brain."}
{"id": "10939570", "title": "Progressive loss of cortical acetylcholinesterase activity in association with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease: a positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Progressive loss of cortical acetylcholinesterase activity in association with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease: a positron emission tomography study. We measured brain acetylcholinesterase activity in 30 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 14 age-matched controls by positron emission tomography (PET) and using a carbon 11-labeled acetylcholine analogue. Seven AD patients had repeat PET scans. The k3 values were calculated as an index of acetylcholinesterase activity in a three-compartment analysis using the metabolite corrected arterial input function. Twenty-eight of the 30 AD patients (14 each in the early and late onset subgroups) were retained in the study so as to equalize the range and average severity of cognitive impairment within the early and late onset subgroups. The k3 values were significantly reduced in the neocortex, hippocampus, and amygdala in the early onset AD patients, although the k3 values were significantly reduced only in the temporoparietal cortex and amygdala in the late onset AD patients. In the longitudinal study, all 7 repeat AD patients showed further reduction of cortical k3 values in the second PET scans, with a mean interval of 2 years, suggesting a progressive loss of the ascending cholinergic system from the nucleus basalis of Meynert in AD. In 37 AD patients, there was a highly significant correlation between the cortical k3 values and Mini-Mental State Examination scores, supporting the cholinergic hypothesis in AD."}
{"id": "10926955", "title": "Cerebral hemodynamics in CADASIL before and after acetazolamide challenge assessed with MRI bolus tracking.", "content": "Cerebral hemodynamics in CADASIL before and after acetazolamide challenge assessed with MRI bolus tracking. White matter lesions in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) are underlaid by severe ultrastructural changes of the arteriolar wall. Although chronic ischemia is presumed to cause the tissue lesions, the pattern of perfusion abnormalities and hemodynamic reserve in CADASIL, particularly within the white matter, remains unknown. We used the MRI bolus tracking method in 15 symptomatic patients with CADASIL (5 with dementia) and 10 age-matched control subjects before and 20 minutes after the intravenous injection of acetazolamide (ACZ, 17 mg/kg). Cerebral blood flow (CBF), blood volume (CBV), and mean transit time (MTT) were calculated both in the cortex and in the white matter according to the singular value decomposition technique. Perfusion parameters were obtained in regions of hyperintensities and within the normal-appearing white matter as observed on T2-weighted images. Analysis was performed with both absolute and relative (region/whole brain) values. A significant reduction in absolute and relative CBF and CBV was found within areas of T2 hyperintensities in white matter in the absence of significant variations of MTT. This reduction was more severe in demented than in nondemented patients. No significant change in absolute CBF and CBV values was observed in the cortex of patients with CADASIL. A decrease in relative CBF and CBV values was detected in the occipital cortex. After ACZ administration, CBF and CBV increased significantly in both the cortex and white matter of affected subjects, but the increase in absolute CBF was lower within areas of increased signal on T2-weighted images in patients than in the white matter of control subjects. In CADASIL, both basal perfusion and hemodynamic reserve are decreased in areas of T2 hyperintensities in the white matter. This hypoperfusion appears to be related to the clinical severity. The significant effect of ACZ on CBF and CBV suggests that cerebral perfusion might be increased using pharmacological vasodilation in CADASIL."}
{"id": "10923659", "title": "Correlation of intellectual impairment in Parkinson's disease with FDG PET scan.", "content": "Correlation of intellectual impairment in Parkinson's disease with FDG PET scan. This study investigated the relationship between regional glucose metabolism with intellectual impairment in patients with Parkinson's disease using statistical parametric mapping. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism using [18F]deoxyglucose (FDG) PET scans were performed on 10 patients with Parkinson's disease. We used the intellectual impairment score from the UPDRS. PET scans were analyzed with SPM96. Patients showed significant positive correlations with left limbic structures such as the cingulate gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus, and medial frontal gyrus. Patients showed significant negative correlations with associative neocortical posterior structures such as bilateral parietal and occipital gyrus. There were significant relationships between regional glucose metabolism and intellectual impairment."}
{"id": "10901454", "title": "Cardiac fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging using a dual-head gamma camera with coincidence detection: a clinical pilot study.", "content": "Cardiac fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose imaging using a dual-head gamma camera with coincidence detection: a clinical pilot study. Dual-headed gamma cameras with coincidence detection (MCD) are increasingly used for imaging of positron-emitting tracers, such as fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). In this study, we examined differences between FDG MCD and FDG positron emission tomography (PET) as the gold standard to determine whether FDG MCD could be used for assessment of myocardial viability in daily practice. Nineteen patients with a previous myocardial infarction (17 men; mean left ventricular ejection fraction 44%+/-13%) underwent FDG MCD, FDG PET, resting echocardiography and technetium-99m tetrofosmin gated single-photon emission tomography (SPET). At the 50% threshold value for FDG PET, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for FDG MCD was 0.77+/-0.03. In 107 dyssynergic segments on echocardiography and 151 segments with hypoperfusion on 99mTc-tetrofosmin SPET, the specificity of FDG MCD for the detection of myocardial viability was 72% and 76% respectively, with a sensitivity of 69% and 72% respectively. Regional analysis showed a significantly lower agreement of FDG MCD and FDG PET in the inferior and septal regions (58% for dyssynergic segments and 65% for segments with hypoperfusion), as compared with the other regions (85% for dyssynergic regions, P<0.05, and 86% for segments with hypoperfusion, P<0.05). Five patients (26%), who all had a body mass index > or =25% kg/m2, showed more than 25% disagreement between FDG MCD and FDG PET. Because of the moderate overall agreement with FDG PET, the low sensitivity in akinetic or dyskinetic regions and the low agreement in the inferior and septal regions, further studies and implementations of technical developments are needed before FDG MCD can be introduced into clinical practice for the assessment of myocardial viability."}
{"id": "10893065", "title": "Membranous lipodystrophy presenting with palilalia: a PET study of cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Membranous lipodystrophy presenting with palilalia: a PET study of cerebral glucose metabolism. A case of membranous lipodystrophy (Nasu-Hakola disease; NHD) associated with palilalia was reported. A 38-year-old Japanese woman developed walking difficulty in her twenties. At age 35 she manifested neuropsychiatric symptoms characterized by euphoria, palilalia and dementia. A bone marrow biopsy showed periodic acid Schiff-positive membranous cystic lesions in the adipose tissue. Positron emission tomography with (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose disclosed that regional cerebral glucose metabolism was decreased in the bilateral frontal white matter with mild hypometabolism in the thalamus and basal ganglia; all predominantly on the right. Taken together with the previous postmortem findings, it is postulated that frontal lobe hypofunction, predominantly in the right hemisphere, produced the unique neuropsychiatric symptoms in this patient."}
{"id": "10885333", "title": "[A case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease presenting as chronic progressive cerebellar ataxia].", "content": "[A case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease presenting as chronic progressive cerebellar ataxia]. A case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease manifested as chronic progressive cerebellar ataxia is reported. A 56-year-old woman had suffered from recurrent oral aphthous ulcers, genital ulcers and polyarthritis since her late twenties. At age 53, she noticed small stepped-gait; at age 55, she developed scanning speech, a wide-based gait and memory disturbance. On admission she had oral aphthous ulcers, scarring of genital ulcers and polyarthralgia. A neurological examination revealed memory disturbance, saccadic eye movement, scanning speech, a slow tongue wiggle, moderate limb and truncal ataxia and moderate hyperreflexia in four limbs without pathological reflexes. Relevant laboratory examination data showed a positive HLA-B51. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) had a mild elevation of the cell counts and the amounts of protein. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed mild atrophy of the cerebellum and brainstem. Fluoro-2-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography showed a decreased glucose metabolism in the cerebellum and brainstem. Methylprednisolone pulse therapy (1 g x 3 days) followed by oral corticosteroids (50 mg/day) with gradual tapering markedly alleviated the cerebellar ataxia. The presence of oral and genital ulcers and CSF pleocytosis as well as effectiveness of corticosteroids in relieving the neurologic symptoms suggested neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease. We propose the existence of a new subtype of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease characterized by chronic progressive cerebellar involvement possibly due to microvasculitis for which corticosteroids may be effective."}
{"id": "10878734", "title": "Alterations of cerebral glucose metabolism indicate progress to severe morphological brain lesions in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus.", "content": "Alterations of cerebral glucose metabolism indicate progress to severe morphological brain lesions in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus. Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is frequently associated with deficits in brain glucose metabolism, even if morphological imaging by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows no abnormalities. In these patients it is unclear whether or not the changes of brain metabolism measured by F-18-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) may progress to lesions of cerebral structure. We describe a 20-year-old woman with SLE who presented with depression, headache and impairment of memory. Initially, a cranial MRI was negative, but FDG-PET revealed significant hypometabolism in the frontal and parieto-temporo-occipital regions on both sides as well as hypermetabolism in the nuclei caudati. Within two months the patient developed an acute confusional state, seizures, visual disturbances and cranial MRI became positive showing hyperintensities at the basal ganglia and the temporo-occipital regions. Focal cerebral symptoms responded to treatment with high dose corticosteroids and brain lesions in MRI disappeared. However, a second FDG-PET showed persistent hypometabolism at frontal regions in accordance with the persistence of subclinical depression. To our knowledge, this is the first SLE case report showing that functional brain lesions visualized by FDG-PET may be a risk factor for subsequent structural brain damage seen in MRI. Thus, FDG-PET may help to verify cerebral involvement of SLE earlier than MRI."}
{"id": "10869578", "title": "Disturbances of spatial vision and object vision correlate differently with regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Disturbances of spatial vision and object vision correlate differently with regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. There is evidence of two neuronal systems for visual cognition which are referred to as spatial vision and object vision. We subjected 49 patients with mild-to-moderate probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) to tasks associated with these two types of visual cognition. Visual counting was employed as a task to assess visuospatial recognition. Identification of overlapping figures and discrimination of visual forms were used as visuoperceptual tasks that require an ability to recognize objects. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) of the subjects was also determined by positron emission tomography. Multivariate statistics controlling for the confounding factors assessed the correlation between the task performances and the rCMRglc. The visual counting score significantly correlated with the metabolic rate of the bilateral inferior parietal lobules. On the other hand, the scores of the visuoperceptual tasks significantly correlated with the metabolic rate of the right middle temporal gyrus and the right inferior parietal lobule. The present study showed that visuospatial disturbance was related to bilateral parietal metabolism, and that visuoperceptual disturbance was related to right temporo-parietal metabolism in patients with mild-to-moderate AD."}
{"id": "10867215", "title": "Vascular and metabolic reserve in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Vascular and metabolic reserve in Alzheimer's disease. Vascular and metabolic reserve were analyzed in probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)), and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) were measured quantitatively with positron emission tomography (PET). Vascular reactivity (VR) was also calculated by comparing the CBF during 5% CO(2) inhalation with the CBF during normal breathing. Vascular transit time (VTT) that was calculated as a ratio of CBV/CBF and VR reflect vasodilating capacity of the small resistance vessels, whereas OEF designates metabolic (oxygen-extraction) reserve in threatening brain ischemia. Significant increase in OEF was seen in the parieto-temporal cortex and both VTT and VR were preserved in AD patients. By constrast, there was no significant increase in OEF whereas VTT was prolonged and VR was markedly depressed in VaD patients. The increase of OEF and preserved VTT and VR seen in AD patients indicate the possible participation of vascular factors in the pathogenesis of AD perhaps at the capillary level."}
{"id": "10866105", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in multi-infarct-dementia related to primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in multi-infarct-dementia related to primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. The primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (PAPS) has been described in patients with a history of fetal loss, thrombocytopenia and arterial or venous thrombosis. In PAPS, a prothrombotic state is mediated by antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLs) leading to disseminated thromboembolic vascular occlusion. Today, the presence of aPLs in the serum is considered as a distinct risk factor for recurrent stroke in young adults. Some PAPS patients develop a multi-infarct-syndrome with a stepwise decline of higher cortical functions. We report on a 55-year-old man suffering from progressive dementia and PAPS, in whom cerebral glucose metabolism and blood flow were examined by positron emission tomography (PET). Cerebral atrophy and moderate signs of leukaraiosis were detected in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), whereas the PET scans showed a considerable diffuse impairment of cortical glucose metabolism combined with a reduced cerebral perfusion in the arterial border zones. These findings indicate that PAPS-associated vascular dementia is accompanied by a cortical neuronal loss, presumably caused by a small-vessel disease with immune-mediated intravascular thrombosis. This case shows that pathological findings in PAPS are congruent to cerebral changes of metabolism and blood flow in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)."}
{"id": "10865093", "title": "Familial frontotemporal dementia with a P301L tau mutation in Japan.", "content": "Familial frontotemporal dementia with a P301L tau mutation in Japan. We have reported the family line with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in Japan. This family line has so far included four patients. Patient II-1 (man) had a 10 year history of slowly progressive personality and behavioral changes and died at the age of 56. His neuropathological examination showed severe atrophy of the bilateral frontal and temporal cortices with neuronal loss, gliosis and superficial spongiosis. Pick bodies were not found. The neuropathological diagnosis was atypical Pick's disease without Pick bodies or Pick-type in FTD. Patient III-2 is patient II-1's oldest daughter and was taken ill with personality change at the age of 52. She died at the age of 68. Patient III-4 is patient II-1's second daughter. Her onset with strange speech and behavior was at the age of 59. Patient III-5 is patient II-1's oldest son. He also had onset with personality change at the age of 54 and had the P301L mutation in tau. In all III generation cases CT/MRI revealed circumscribed frontotemporal atrophy. Patient III-5's PET/SPECT showed signs of hypoperfusion or hypometabolism in the bilateral frontotemporal areas. This is the first report of familial FTD with the P301L mutation in Japan."}
{"id": "10865088", "title": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in subjects with incidental hyperintensities on magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in subjects with incidental hyperintensities on magnetic resonance imaging. To clarify the significance of incidental and asymptomatic hyperintensities on T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance images (MRI) in adults, we examined the relationship between a variety of these lesions and cerebral metabolism evaluated by positron emission tomography (PET) with (18)F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG). Two hundred and thirty-one persons with hyperintensities on T(2)-weighted MRI but without overt neurological disease (mean age 60+/-9 years) were studied. MR hyperintensities were classified into deep and/or subcortical white matter hyperintensities (DSWMHs), periventricular hyperintensities (PVHs) and hyperintensities in the basal ganglia and/or thalamus (HBGTs). The relationship between these lesions and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRgl) measured by [(18)F]FDG-PET was investigated. The CMRgl values in white matter and cerebral cortex in the group with severe PVHs were lower than those in the group with mild PVHs (P<0.0001 and P<0.005). Although the severity of PVHs was associated with the numbers of DSWMHs and HBGTs, the results of multivariate analysis showed a significant relationship of PVHs to glucose metabolism in cerebral cortex and white matter. We conclude that increasing severity of MRI hyperintensities in adults is associated with a deterioration of cerebral metabolism. In particular, involvement of PVHs may be a marker of widespread deterioration of cortical metabolism."}
{"id": "10849910", "title": "[Cortico-basal degeneration].", "content": "[Cortico-basal degeneration]. Cortico-basal degeneration (CBD) or cortico-basal ganglionic degeneration is a condition characterised by selective cortical atrophy of parietal and in a lesser extent, frontal lobe associated with dysfunction of the basal ganglia. The clinical symptoms of CBD, predominantly extrapyramidal signs (bradykinesia and rigidity) and apraxia, affect often only one body side in the onset phase, with the left one being more frequent. Neuropathological studies reveal neuronal loss, gliosis, and achromasia chiefly in frontal and parietal cortex, as well as in basal ganglia and substantia nigra. Functional investigations, such as SPECT, disclose similar distribution of abnormalities (hypometabolism). The aetiology and causative treatment of CBD are unknown. The authors highlight the diagnostic difficulties in CBD including a necessity of a prolonged patient's observation in order to ascertain the differential diagnosis of other neurodegenerative disorders, in particular progressive supranuclear palsy, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "10846718", "title": "[Kufs-disease; a rare cause of early-onset dementia].", "content": "[Kufs-disease; a rare cause of early-onset dementia]. The case of a 35-year-old man with progressive dementia from the age of 17 is presented. Clinical examination showed mild extrapyramidal and cerebellar signs and rare myoclonus. Neuropsychological evaluation disclosed severe cognitive deficits. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed moderate generalized atrophy with abnormal iron deposition in the basal ganglia. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18-FDG) demonstrated clear temporoparietal hypometabolism. The clinical symptoms and course are typical for the rare adult type of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (Kufs' disease). The diagnosis is supported by the electron microscope detection of an abnormal accumulation of lipid vacuoles and lipofuscin in the eccrine sweat glands and the rectal ganglia cells."}
{"id": "10845666", "title": "Positron emission tomography scanning in the evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma.", "content": "Positron emission tomography scanning in the evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake allows estimation of glucose metabolism by tumor cells using positron emission tomography (PET). We evaluated the role of PET imaging in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. PET images were collected after intravenous injection of 8-12 mCi of 18F-FDG in 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). PET tumor activity level was assessed on a scale of 1 to 4 compared to normal liver tissue. The PET score was compared with abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan results and between tumors of different grades and differentiation. Of the 20 patients studied, 11 (55%) had positive PET scans (PET score: 3 or 4) while nine (45%) were negative (PET score: 1 or 2). CT scan was positive in 18 patients (90%) and negative in two (10%). PET, however, revealed metastases in three patients that were not seen on CT. On pathological review, well-differentiated and low-grade tumors had lower PET scores. Comparison of the well-differentiated with the moderately- and poorly-differentiated tumors revealed a statistically significant difference. No statistical significance was observed between the moderately- and poorly-differentiated tumors or between different tumor grades and PET scores. The sensitivity of PET in diagnosis of HCC was 55% compared to 90% for CT scanning, although only PET detected some tumors (including distant metastases). Well-differentiated and low tumor grades had lower activity on PET and correspondingly lower PET scores. PET imaging may help assess tumor differentiation and may be useful in the diagnosis and staging and prognostication of HCC as an adjunct to CT."}
{"id": "10843517", "title": "Voxel-based analysis of confounding effects of age and dementia severity on cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Voxel-based analysis of confounding effects of age and dementia severity on cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by early hippocampal lesions, but neuropathological and functional imaging studies have also demonstrated involvement of associative cortices in patients suffering from this illness. New image-processing technologies have led to demonstration of predominant posteromedial cortical metabolic impairment in the disease. Confounding effects of both age and dementia severity on brain metabolism were assessed using categorical and correlational analyses performed with Statistical Parametric Mapping. Posterior cingulate and precuneus metabolism, assessed by positron emission tomography, was significantly correlated with age in a population of 46 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Metabolism in posterior cingulate and precuneus was higher in elderly than in younger patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, even when dementia severity was taken as a confounding covariate. The data suggest that the sensitivity of positron emission tomography for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is reduced in elderly cases, where less severe pathology is sufficient to induce clinical symptoms of dementia. Conversely, higher posteromedial metabolic impairment in early onset cases may reflect greater density of regional cerebral lesions or major decrease of functional afferences in a richly connected multimodal associative area. Posterior cingulate metabolism was also correlated to dementia severity, even when age was taken as a confounding covariate, whereas metabolism in the hippocampal formation was not shown to correlate with global cognitive deficit. Functional correlation was maintained between posterior cingulate and middle frontal cortex in demented patients as in elderly controls. The key role of posteromedial cortex in cognitive dysfunction assessed in Alzheimer's disease is probably related to its highly integrated position within attentional, visuospatial and memory neuronal networks."}
{"id": "10818514", "title": "Can PET data differentiate Alzheimer's disease from vascular dementia?", "content": "Can PET data differentiate Alzheimer's disease from vascular dementia? The present study endeavored to differentiate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from vascular dementia (VaD) by comparing the metabolic and hemodynamic parameters. Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies were carried out in 13 patients with probable AD and 20 patients with VaD. PET findings were not included in the diagnostic criteria of AD or VaD. Using oxygen-15 labeled compounds, cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF), cerebral blood volume, and vascular transit time (VTT) were measured quantitatively during the resting state. To evaluate vascular reactivity (VR), CBF was also measured during 7% CO2 inhalation. Regional CBF from the parietal cortex positively correlated with the neuropsychological scores in both AD and VaD groups. The typical parietotemporal pattern of hypoperfusion and hypometabolism was observed in the AD group, whereas the frontal lobe including the cingulate and superior frontal gyri were predominantly affected in the VaD group. The occipital cortex was preserved in both groups. A significant increase of the OEF was found in the parietotemporal areas in the AD group. No significant prolongation was seen with VTT. There was a marked difference in VR between the two groups: VR was depleted in the VaD group, whereas VR was normal in the AD group. The increased OEF with preserved vascular reserve seen in AD may implicate participation of a vascular factor in the pathogenesis of AD, possibly at the capillary level. Thus, PET provides important functional information in discriminating AD from VaD by comparing the patterns of hypoperfusion and/or hypometabolism, and in the understanding of the underlying hemodynamic pathophysiology."}
{"id": "10811879", "title": "Cerebral metabolic and cognitive decline in persons at genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic and cognitive decline in persons at genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease. The major known genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), apolipoprotein E-4 (APOE-4), is associated with lowered parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD. To determine cognitive and metabolic decline patterns according to genetic risk, we investigated cerebral metabolic rates by using positron emission tomography in middle-aged and older nondemented persons with normal memory performance. A single copy of the APOE-4 allele was associated with lowered inferior parietal, lateral temporal, and posterior cingulate metabolism, which predicted cognitive decline after 2 years of longitudinal follow-up. For the 20 nondemented subjects followed longitudinally, memory performance scores did not decline significantly, but cortical metabolic rates did. In APOE-4 carriers, a 4% left posterior cingulate metabolic decline was observed, and inferior parietal and lateral temporal regions demonstrated the greatest magnitude (5%) of metabolic decline after 2 years. These results indicate that the combination of cerebral metabolic rates and genetic risk factors provides a means for preclinical AD detection that will assist in response monitoring during experimental treatments."}
{"id": "10802790", "title": "Significance of interictal bilateral temporal hypometabolism in temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Significance of interictal bilateral temporal hypometabolism in temporal lobe epilepsy. To assess the clinical implications and the pathophysiologic determinants of interictal bitemporal hypometabolism (BTH) in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) not associated with bilateral MRI abnormalities or intracranial space-occupying lesions. The authors compared the clinical, interictal, and ictal EEG, Wada test, and neuropsychology data of 15 patients with intractable complex partial seizures of temporal lobe origin and BTH with those of 13 consecutive patients with unilateral TLE associated with unilateral temporal hypometabolism (UTH) who remained seizure free for more than 3 years after anterior temporal lobectomy. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET scans were analyzed visually and semiquantitatively, and ratios of counts in individual temporal areas to the rest of the cerebrum were compared with the corresponding values from 11 normal control subjects and with the nonepileptogenic hemisphere of the 13 patients with UTH. BTH was defined as more than 2.5 SDs below control values for two or more temporal areas on each side irrespective of any asymmetry. BTH reflected bilateral independent seizure onset in eight patients (53%). The topography of the metabolic depression was not a reliable predictor of epileptogenicity, but involvement of the inferior temporal gyrus was related specifically to ipsilateral seizure onset (70% sensitivity, 100% specificity). In patients with unilateral TLE, contralateral hypometabolism was associated with longer disease duration and worst memory performance during the Wada test, which amounted to global amnesia after ipsilateral injection in three patients, precluding surgical treatment. Contralateral seizure spread in the ictal EEG was significantly faster in patients with BTH. In TLE, symmetric or asymmetric BTH may signal bilateral independent seizure onset in approximately half the patients, especially when involving the inferior temporal gyrus. Alternatively, it may reflect an advanced stage of the disease process, characterized by a breakdown of the inhibitory mechanisms in the contralateral hemisphere, and secondary memory deficit associated with higher risk of postoperative memory decline. Patients with TLE and BTH but without bilateral MRI changes may still be operated on successfully, but surgical suitability should be proved by comprehensive intracranial EEG studies and Wada test."}
{"id": "10802786", "title": "Atrial fibrillation and the risk of cerebral white matter lesions.", "content": "Atrial fibrillation and the risk of cerebral white matter lesions. Cerebral white matter lesions are often observed on MRI scans of elderly nondemented and demented persons. Their pathogenesis is not fully understood but cerebral hypoperfusion may be involved. Atrial fibrillation is a common finding in elderly subjects and may lead to a reduced cardiac output with cerebral hypoperfusion. The authors investigated the association between atrial fibrillation and the presence of white matter lesions. From 1995 through 1996, the authors randomly sampled 1077 subjects from two ongoing prospective population-based studies. From each participant, an electrocardiogram (ECG) was recorded; atrial fibrillation and left ventricular hypertrophy were diagnosed with a computer program. For one of the two groups (553 subjects), earlier ECGs were available (mean follow-up 4.7 years). All subjects underwent 1.5-T MRI scanning; white matter lesions were separately rated for the periventricular and subcortical regions. The prevalence of atrial fibrillation was 1.9% among subjects younger than 75 years and 5.5% in subjects older than 75 years. The total number of subjects with atrial fibrillation was 28. Subjects with atrial fibrillation had severe periventricular white matter lesions more than twice as often as subjects who did not (RR 2.2; 95% CI 1.0 to 5.2) but had no increased risk of subcortical white matter lesions (RR 1.1; 95% CI 0.4 to 2.6). For seven subjects with atrial fibrillation both at baseline and at follow up, these relative risks were 6.3 (95% CI 1.1 to 37.1) and 0.7 (95% CI 0.1 to 3.7). Atrial fibrillation is associated with periventricular white matter lesions, but not with subcortical white matter lesions."}
{"id": "10802765", "title": "Drug-induced changes in cerebral glucose consumption in bifrontal epilepsy.", "content": "Drug-induced changes in cerebral glucose consumption in bifrontal epilepsy. Positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-radiolabeled deoxyglucose (18F-FDG) is a sensitive procedure for detection of epileptogenic foci. Although alterations in glucose consumption are not restricted to the area of seizure generation itself, the magnitude and extent of cerebral metabolic disturbances induced by epileptic discharges can be detected. Despite two decades of epilepsy research using 18F-FDG-PET, little is known about the metabolic changes during therapy of focal epilepsy. We report on a child with frontal epilepsy with severe glucose hypometabolism that was nearly completely normalized during drug therapy. Interictal 18F-FDG-PET was performed at the onset of epilepsy and after optimized drug therapy in a 5-year-old boy with behavioral abnormalities and repetitive seizures of frontal origin with bifrontal interictal EEG slowing for 8 weeks. Both scans were anatomically matched; initial and intratherapeutic glucose metabolism were compared. In accordance with the epileptogenic focus as identified by EEG and ictal/interictal perfusion single-photon emission tomography (SPECT), bifrontal hypometabolism was depicted by 18F-FDG-PET. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was unremarkable. After dual-drug therapy (valproate, carbamazepine), the boy became seizure free, and his initial behavioral deficits disappeared. A control PET study after 3 months of therapy showed restored glucose consumption; the frontal EEG slowing was normalized. This case demonstrates that reduction of glucose metabolism in epileptogenic foci may be a result of reversible neuronal dysfunction that correlates with the electroclinical follow-up."}
{"id": "10784521", "title": "Diagnosis and monitoring of central nervous system involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus: value of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose PET.", "content": "Diagnosis and monitoring of central nervous system involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus: value of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose PET. To investigate prospectively abnormalities of brain glucose utilisation in relation to major or minor neuropsychiatric symptoms in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Positron emission tomography (PET) using F-18-labelled fluorodeoxyglucose was performed in 28 patients with SLE. Patients were classified as having severe neuropsychiatric manifestations (seizures, focal neurological deficits, acute confusional states, mood disorders) (n=12), or mild neuropsychiatric manifestations (headache, reactive depression, cognitive dysfunction, anxiety disorders) (n=11) and five patients without signs of central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Ten clinically and neurologically healthy volunteers served as controls. In 26 patients magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed and autoantibodies against CNS tissue, ribosomal P protein and cardiolipin were measured. In 14 patients follow up PET scans were performed after a mean (SD) period of 11.6 (9.5) months. PET scans showed hypometabolism in at least one brain region in all patients with severe or mild CNS symptoms (100%) as compared with patients without cerebral symptoms (40%) (p<0.0025). Parieto-occipital regions were most commonly affected (96%), followed by parietal regions (32%). In contrast, MRI images were abnormal in only 11 of 22 patients (50%) with neuropsychiatric symptoms and in one of four patients (25%) without symptoms. In 12 of 14 patients examined in follow up PET scans persistence, improvement or worsening of cerebral symptoms were associated with unchanged, decreased or increased brain hypometabolism, respectively. No significant correlation was found between PET or MRI findings and autoantibody profiles. PET imaging represents a sensitive tool to detect manifest or subclinical CNS involvement in SLE and PET findings correlate well with the clinical course of disease."}
{"id": "10782769", "title": "Subcortical ischemic vascular dementia: assessment with quantitative MR imaging and 1H MR spectroscopy.", "content": "Subcortical ischemic vascular dementia: assessment with quantitative MR imaging and 1H MR spectroscopy. Subcortical ischemic vascular dementia is associated with cortical hypometabolism and hypoperfusion, and this reduced cortical metabolism or blood flow can be detected with functional imaging such as positron emission tomography. The aim of this study was to characterize, by means of MR imaging and 1H MR spectroscopy, the structural and metabolic brain changes that occur among patients with subcortical ischemic vascular dementia compared with those of elderly control volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's disease. Patients with dementia and lacunes (n = 11), cognitive impairment and lacunes (n = 14), and dementia without lacunes (n = 18) and healthy age-matched control volunteers (n = 20) underwent MR imaging and 1H MR spectroscopy. 1H MR spectroscopy data were coanalyzed with coregistered segmented MR images to account for atrophy and tissue composition. Compared with healthy control volunteers, patients with dementia and lacunes had 11.74% lower N-acetylaspartate/creatine ratios (NAA/Cr) (P = .007) and 10.25% lower N-acetylaspartate measurements (NAA) in the cerebral cortex (P = .03). In white matter, patients with dementia and lacunes showed a 10.56% NAA/Cr reduction (P = .01) and a 12.64% NAA reduction (P = .04) compared with control subjects. NAA in the frontal cortex was negatively correlated with the volume of white matter signal hyperintensity among patients with cognitive impairment and lacunes (P = .002). Patients with dementia, but not patients with dementia and lacunes, showed a 10.33% NAA/Cr decrease (P = .02) in the hippocampus compared with healthy control volunteers. Patients with dementia and lacunes have reduced NAA and NAA/Cr in both cortical and white matter regions. Cortical changes may result from cortical ischemia/infarction, retrograde or trans-synaptic injury (or both) secondary to subcortical neuronal loss, or concurrent Alzheimer's pathologic abnormalities. Cortical derangement may contribute to dementia among patients with subcortical infarction."}
{"id": "10768568", "title": "PET: the merging of biology and imaging into molecular imaging.", "content": "PET: the merging of biology and imaging into molecular imaging. PET and SPECT are molecular imaging techniques that use radiolabeled molecules to image molecular interactions of biological processes in vivo. PET imaging technologies have been developed to provide a pathway to the patient from the experimental paradigms of biological and pharmaceutical sciences in genetically engineered and tissue transplanted mouse models of disease. PET provides a novel way for molecular therapies and molecular diagnostics to come together in the discovery of molecules that can be used in low mass amounts to image the function of a target and, by elevating the mass, to pharmacologically modify the function of the target. In both cases, the molecules are the same or analogs of each other. PET can be used to titrate drugs to their sites of action within organ systems in vivo and to assay biological outcomes of the processes being modified in the mouse and the patient. The goal is to provide a novel way to improve the rates of discovery and approval of radiopharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Extending this relationship into clinical practice can improve drug use by providing molecular diagnostics in concert with molecular therapeutics. Diseases are biological processes, and molecular imaging with PET is sensitive and informative to these processes. This sensitivity is exemplified by the detection of disease with PET without evidence of anatomic changes on CT and MRI. These biological changes are seen early in the course of disease, even in asymptomatic stages, as illustrated by the metabolic abnormalities detected with PET and FDG in Huntington's and familial Alzheimer's diseases 7 and 5 y, respectively, before symptoms appear. Differentiation of viable from nonviable tissue is fundamentally a metabolic question, as shown by the use of PET to differentiate patients with coronary artery disease who will benefit from revascularization from those who will not. Although beginning within a specific organ, cancer is a systemic disease the most devastating consequences of which result from metastases. Whole-body PET imaging with FDG enables inspection of glucose metabolism in all organ systems in a single examination to improve the detection and staging of cancer, selection of therapy, and assessment of therapeutic response. In lung and colorectal cancers, melanoma, and lymphoma, PET FDG improves the accuracy of detection and staging from 8% to 43% over conventional work-ups and results in treatment changes in 20%-40% of the patients, depending on the clinical question. Approximately 65% are upstaged because unsuspected metastases are detected, and 35% are downstaged because a structural diagnosis of lesions is changed from malignant to benign. Similar results are now being shown for other cancers. The main difference between CT, sonography, MRI, and PET or SPECT is not technologic but, rather, a difference between detecting and characterizing a disease by its anatomic features as opposed to its biology. The importance and success of developing new molecular imaging probes is increasing as PET becomes integral to the study of the integrative mammalian biology of disease and as molecular therapies targeting the biological processes of disease are developed."}
{"id": "10768561", "title": "Comparison of voxel- and volume-of-interest-based analyses in FDG PET scans of HIV positive and healthy individuals.", "content": "Comparison of voxel- and volume-of-interest-based analyses in FDG PET scans of HIV positive and healthy individuals. Abnormal glucose metabolic patterns in the brain have been reported for HIV-1 seropositive (HIV+) patients when compared with seronegative healthy individuals. The metabolic covariance pattern obtained from voxel- or volume-of-interest (VOI)-based multivariate data analysis techniques can be used to characterize disease and potentially to detect and monitor disease progression in the early stage of AIDS dementia complex. However, the arbitrary smoothing typically applied to PET data during reconstruction and processing to reduce noise has an unknown effect on the data, especially for the voxel-based analysis. To investigate the impact of smoothing on a discrimination task, we applied principal component analysis with scaled subprofile-model preprocessing (SSM/PCA) followed by Fisher discriminant analysis to FDG PET data that were reconstructed and processed with different degrees of smoothing. Receiver operating characteristic curves were used to compare the ability of derived metabolic covariance patterns to discriminate HIV+ patients from healthy volunteers. For the voxel-based analysis, we found that the spatial distribution of voxel weights from the SSM/PCA analysis suggested edge effects along major tissue and cerebrospinal fluid boundaries, indicative of a disease-specific pattern of cerebral atrophy for the HIV+ patients. In terms of its discrimination performance, this metabolic covariance pattern is stable and insensitive to a wide range of smoothing kernels, except for ramp reconstruction and Hanning reconstruction with 7 x 7 x 7 block smoothing. In these reconstructions, the discrimination performance decreased as a result of high image noise and excessive smoothing, respectively. Our results also indicated that if sufficient variance from the VOI measurements is included, the overall performance of a conventional VOI-based analysis can be similar to that of the voxel-based analysis for the same discrimination task. However, the VOI-based analysis performed poorly at low false-positive fraction and is less tolerant to noise in the metabolic covariance pattern than the voxel-based analysis. We have obtained a unique covariance pattern of brain glucose metabolism for HIV+ patients compared with healthy volunteers. Discrimination based on this covariance pattern was found to be insensitive to a wide range of image smoothness."}
{"id": "10768170", "title": "[Comparison of different methods for attenuation correction in brain PET: effect on the calculation of the metabolic rate of glucose].", "content": "[Comparison of different methods for attenuation correction in brain PET: effect on the calculation of the metabolic rate of glucose]. There are several approaches for correcting the effects of photon scatter or absorption by body tissues on positron emission tomography (PET). We examined the influence of cold, hot and segmented transmission as well as of a mathematical procedure on attenuation correction using regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rMRGlu). 6 patients with different cerebral diseases were examined under resting conditions using an ECAT Exact 922/47. The attenuation-corrected data (corrected by means of cold, hot and segmented transmission as well as a mathematical procedure) were then quantified absolutely for assessment of regional glucose metabolism in 16 regions of interest (ROIs). Using absolutely quantified glucose metabolism in 16 ROIs, no significant differences were found between cold transmission and the mathematical procedure except for three regions (left and right temporal occipital and right parietal occipital). Unlike the mathematical procedure, both hot and segmented transmission showed a significantly lower value for regional glucose utilization in all 16 ROIs than did cold transmission. The left and the right hemisphere both showed metabolic values (rMRGlu) in the same decreasing order: cold transmission, the mathematical procedure, hot or segmented transmission. There was no significant difference between global cerebral glucose metabolism values for cold transmission and the mathematical procedure (p = 0.25) while those for hot (p = 0.03) and segmented transmission (p = 0.03) did show a significant difference. Except for 3 regions (temporo-occipital left, temporo-occipital right and parieto-occipital right) attenuation correction procedures used for brain PET studies on patients show no significant quantitative differences between cold transmission and the mathematical procedure. rMRGlu of images corrected for attenuation using hot and segmented transmission is significantly lower than of attenuation corrected images where cold transmission was employed. For clinical routine examinations, the mathematical procedure seems the best alternative to cold transmission for a faster brain PET acquisition."}
{"id": "10768169", "title": "One-year follow-up of neuropsychology, MRI, rCBF and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) in cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "One-year follow-up of neuropsychology, MRI, rCBF and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) in cerebral microangiopathy. MRI shows lacunar infarctions (LI), deep white matter lesions (DWML) and atrophy in cerebral microangiopathy, which is said to lead to vascular dementia. In a first trial series on 57 patients with confirmed pure cerebral microangiopathy (without concomitant macroangiopathy), neuropsychological impairment and (where present) brain atrophy correlated with decreased rCBF and rMRGlu. LI and DWML did not correlate with either neuropsychological impairment or decreased rCBF/rMRGlu. This study was done one year later to detect changes in any of the study parameters. 26 patients were re-examined for rCBF, rMRGlu, LI, DWML, atrophy and neuropsychological performance (7 cognitive, 3 mnestic, 4 attentiveness tests). Using a special head holder for exact repositioning, rCBF (SPECT) and rMRGlu (PET) were measured and imaged slice by slice. White matter/cortex were quantified using MRI-defined ROIs. After one year the patients did not show significant decreases in rCBF or rMRGlu either in cortex or in white matter (p > 0.05), nor did any patient show LI, DWML or atrophy changes on MRI. There were no significant neuropsychological decreases (p > 0.05). Cerebral microangiopathy ought to show progressive neuropsychological, functional (rCBF, rMRGlu) and morphological deterioration over periods > 1 year. It is unlikely that direct cortical damage (e.g., incomplete infarction) is responsible for neuropsychological impairment since one-year follow-up of our patients revealed no progression of brain atrophy or any other cortical damage."}
{"id": "10765044", "title": "Features of regional cerebral glucose metabolism abnormality in corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Features of regional cerebral glucose metabolism abnormality in corticobasal degeneration. We studied regional cerebral glucose metabolism in 15 patients with a clinical diagnosis of corticobasal degeneration (CBD), 15 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 15 healthy controls for 19 brain regions. Asymmetry in regional glucose metabolism was found in the central and frontal cortices in patients with CBD as compared with either the normal controls or the patients with AD. Regional glucose metabolism in CBD patients was significantly lower in the paracentral and superior parietal areas and thalamus than in patients with AD. Relative glucose metabolism in patients with CBD was significantly higher in the posterior cingulate, medial temporal and basal frontal areas, and significantly lower in the paracentral and superior parietal areas than in those with AD. These features of regional glucose metabolic abnormality in CBD may correspond to neurological and cognitive disturbances peculiar to CBD."}
{"id": "10750353", "title": "Semi-automatic ROI placement system for analysis of brain PET images based on elastic model: application to diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Semi-automatic ROI placement system for analysis of brain PET images based on elastic model: application to diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. PET with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is a useful technique to image cerebral glucose metabolism and to detect patients with Alzheimer's disease in the early stage, in which characteristic temporoparietal hypometabolism is visualized. We have developed a new system, in which the standard brain ROI atlas made of networks of segments is elastically transformed to match the subject brain images, so that standard ROIs defined on the segments are placed on the individual brain images and are used to measure radioactivity over each brain region. We applied this methods to Alzheimer's disease. This method was applied to the images of 10 normal subjects (ages 55 +/- 12) and 21 patient clinically diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease (age 61 +/- 10). The FDG uptake reflecting glucose metabolism was evaluated with SUV, i.e. decay corrected radioactivity divided by injected dose per body weight in (Bq/ml)/(Bq/g). The system worked all right in every subject including those with extensive hypometabolism. Alzheimer patients showed markedly lower in the parietal cortex (4.0-4.1). When the threshold value of FDG uptake in the parietal lobe was set as 5(Bq/ml)/(Bq/g), we could discriminate the patients with Alzheimer's disease from the normal subjects. The sensitivity was 86% and the specificity was 90%. This system can assist diagnosis of FDG images and may be useful for treating data of a large number of subjects; e.g. when PET is applied to health screening."}
{"id": "10739631", "title": "Glucose hypometabolism and neuropathological correlates in brains of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Glucose hypometabolism and neuropathological correlates in brains of dementia with Lewy bodies. Cerebral glucose metabolism using positron emission tomography (PET) with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose was examined in 11 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 6 patients with probable, and 1 patient with autopsy-confirmed dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) as well as in 10 age-matched normal control subjects. Among widespread cortical regions showing glucose hypometabolism in the DLB group, the metabolic reduction was most pronounced in the visual association cortex compared to that in the AD group. Using a metabolic ratio of 0.92 in the visual association cortex as a cutoff (mean-2 SD of normal control subjects), DLB could be distinguished from AD with a sensitivity of 86% and a specificity of 91%. In contrast, apolipoprotein E4 allele frequency and cerebrospinal fluid tau levels did not differ significantly between the two groups. In order to further dissect out neuropathological correlates of the dysfunctional occipital lobe, postmortem brains from 19 patients with AD and 17 with DLB as well as 11 brains from normal controls were examined. A distinct and extensive spongiform change with coexisting gliosis was variably noted throughout cerebral white matter with relative sparing of gray matter in DLB. Notably, the white matter spongiform change and gliosis was most prominently and consistently found in the occipital region of DLB, and the severity of the spongiform change in each brain region generally paralleled to the regional difference in reduced glucose metabolism between the living AD and DLB patients. These findings suggest that (1) among several potential antemortem biomarkers in the diagnosis of DLB, measures of the glucose metabolism in the occipital cortex may be an informative diagnostic aid to distinguish DLB from AD; and (2) a pathological process that generates widespread spongiform change and gliosis in long projection fibers may contribute, at least in part, to the characteristic imaging features of DLB."}
{"id": "10720291", "title": "Preoperative FDG-PET temporal lobe hypometabolism and verbal memory after temporal lobectomy.", "content": "Preoperative FDG-PET temporal lobe hypometabolism and verbal memory after temporal lobectomy. To examine the relationship of preoperative fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET asymmetry in temporal lobe metabolism and memory outcome after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL). In a university-based epilepsy surgery center, 60 ATL patients (27 left, 33 right) were divided into two groups: no/mild (n = 21) or moderate/ severe (n = 39) asymmetry in temporal lobe hypometabolism as determined by FDG-PET. All patients were nonretarded, at least 18 years of age, left-hemisphere speech dominant, without MRI abnormalities other than hippocampal atrophy, and with unilateral temporal lobe origin of intractable complex partial seizures. Neuropsychological measures of intelligence and verbal and visual memory function were assessed preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively. Left ATL patients with no/mild asymmetry in FDG-PET temporal lobe metabolism exhibited significantly greater verbal memory decline compared with left ATL patients with moderate/severe hypometabolism. There was no significant relationship between PET asymmetry and pre- to postsurgical IQ change. No significant relationship was observed between extent of PET hypometabolism and memory outcome for right ATL patients. FDG-PET asymmetry can be added to the preoperative clinical markers that appear useful in predicting verbal memory decline after left ATL."}
{"id": "10720282", "title": "Variant Alzheimer's disease with spastic paraparesis: clinical characterization.", "content": "Variant Alzheimer's disease with spastic paraparesis: clinical characterization. To present the clinical, neuroimaging, and electrophysiologic characteristics of a variant AD phenotype. The authors have identified a large Finnish kindred with presenile dementia and spastic paraparesis due to deletion of exon 9 of presenilin 1. Neuropathologic analysis showed unusual cortical \"cotton wool\" plaques, immunoreactive for the beta-amyloid peptide but lacking congophilic cores. Twenty-two affected individuals (16 men and 6 women) were identified in four successive generations. All surviving five patients were examined and subjected to molecular genetic analysis. In addition, the neurologic records of nine deceased patients were evaluated. Electrophysiologic investigations were available in eight cases. CT or MRI of the head had been performed on 11 patients and PET was performed on three patients. The mean age at onset (+/-SD) was 50.9 +/- 5.2 years (range 40 to 61 years). Memory impairment was present in all patients. Memory impairment appeared simultaneously with or was preceded by walking difficulty due to spasticity of the lower extremities (10/14). Impaired fine coordination of hands (9/14) and dysarthria (6/14) in some patients suggested cerebellar involvement. EEG showed intermittent generalized delta-theta activity. Head MRI showed temporal and hippocampal atrophy; PET showed bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism. Spastic paraparesis or brisk stretch reflexes of lower extremities or clumsiness of hands combined with dementia suggests this variant of AD."}
{"id": "10705939", "title": "SPECT in Alzheimer's disease: features associated with bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion.", "content": "SPECT in Alzheimer's disease: features associated with bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion. To investigate why bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion, the typical SPECT pattern of Alzheimer's disease (AD), occurs in some but not in all patients with probable AD. We reviewed the SPECT scans of 220 patients presenting with cognitive impairment. Among them, 104 patients fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable AD, 48 (32 women) with early onset (before age of 65) and 56 (40 women) with late onset of the symptoms. Dementia severity was assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination. The SPECT scans were classified by visual inspection blind to clinical diagnoses. Bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion was more frequent in patients with severe AD, in those with early onset of the symptoms, and in men. Duration of symptoms, type of gamma-camera or radiopharmaceutical agent used were not associated with this SPECT pattern. These findings may be useful in the clinical setting and point to heterogeneity of AD according to age at onset."}
{"id": "10699406", "title": "Is ESES/CSWS a strictly age-related disorder?", "content": "Is ESES/CSWS a strictly age-related disorder? We report on a case of ESES/CSWS observed in a patient of 21 years and still persisting at the age of 25. Cases of ESES/CSWS have never been previously described in adult patients. ESES/CSWS is considered to be related to the degree of maturation of the central nervous system, and therefore strictly age-related. Our case of ESES/CSWS was observed in a 2 1 year old woman referred for cognitive and behavioral disorders. She had previously had epileptic fits, but was seizure free at that time. The patient underwent a full-night polygraphic recording , which showed typical ESES/CSWS pattern, with a Spike-and-Wave Index >8 5%. Polysomnography was repeated 9 times in a 4 year follow-up, during which the ESES/CSWS condition persisted, despite the pharmacological treatments. The patient also underwent cerebral magnetic resonance imaging and fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography (PET). The PET study revealed reduced metabolic activity within the lower gyrus of the right parietal lobe, but no significant difference between subcortical structures and cortical mantle was seen. MRI scans were normal. This observation suggests that ESES/CSWS might not always be an age-related condition. Sleep EEG recordings should always be performed in patients with behavioral disorders and a history of epileptic fits."}
{"id": "10698414", "title": "Anterior choroidal artery infarction presenting as a progressive cognitive deficit.", "content": "Anterior choroidal artery infarction presenting as a progressive cognitive deficit. The authors describe a patient in whom neuroimaging using Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT, F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (F-18 FDG) coincidence imaging, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified an anterior choroidal artery infarction. Neuroimaging played a critical role in confirming this diagnosis, because the patient had symptoms of progressive cognitive decline and satisfied the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT was performed using a triple-head gamma camera. F-18 FDG scanning was obtained 40 minutes after intravenous injection of 5 mCi F-18 FDG using a coincidence camera. A brain MRI scan was performed using a 1.5-Tesla scanner. Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT showed focal hypoperfusion to the right parahippocampal cortex. F-18 FDG coincidence imaging showed a more extensive reduction in glucose metabolism compared with SPECT. The MRI scan confirmed the presence of a small segmental choroidal artery infarction. The Tc-99m HMPAO and F-18 FDG scans were not consistent with AD. This case illustrates the value of the regional cerebral blood flow SPECT for evaluating memory impairment in the elderly. Decreased regional cerebral blood flow to the posterior temporoparietal region is consistent with AD, whereas regional cerebral blood flow diminution in a vascular territory is consistent with vascular dementia. In this case, the patient was clinically diagnosed with AD, and SPECT was performed to establish the baseline regional cerebral blood flow before the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil was administered. An infarction was diagnosed on the regional cerebral blood flow brain SPECT scan, which was later confirmed by MRI. Infarctions of the parahippocampal cortex may resuft in memory impairment, which can appear clinically similar to AD."}
{"id": "10695031", "title": "[Early manifestation of fronto-temporal dementia].", "content": "[Early manifestation of fronto-temporal dementia]. The term frontotemporal dementia is used to describe a primary degenerative form of dementia, which is characterized by typical clinical, neuropsychological, radiological and neuropathological features. Its onset is usually before the age of 65 years; manifestations before the age of 30 years have rarely been described. We report the case of a 22-year old man, who showed symptoms of behavioural disorder such as social retreat, lack of initiative, mental rigidity, progressive reduction of speech, and stereotyped behaviour. The neuropsychological examination revealed disorders of the executive functions. The cerebral MRI investigations showed bifrontal atrophies corresponding with hypoperfusion areas on the SPECT. Other investigations including EEG, evoked potentials, duplex ultrasonography, cerebral angiography, laboratory tests and cerebrospinal fluid were normal. In the present case report we discuss the clinical presentation of frontotemporal dementia with early onset."}
{"id": "10694846", "title": "Cortical deficits in multiple sclerosis on the basis of subcortical lesions.", "content": "Cortical deficits in multiple sclerosis on the basis of subcortical lesions. Patients suffering from multiple sclerosis have a high frequency of cognitive deficits usually attributable to demyelination and axonal loss in the subcortical white matter. Neurologic abnormalities referable to cortical function are uncommon but have been described. The present study describes three patients with clinically definite MS with deficits in cognitive function referable to cortical location. Two of the patients underwent positron emission tomography and showed profound cortical hypometabolism adjacent to subcortical white matter lesions seen on MRI. This paper points out that neurologic deficits referable to cortical sites may be caused by subcortical white matter lesions and that cognitive dysfunction in patients with MS may progress rapidly in the absence of motoria deficits or other evidence of clinical deterioration. Multiple Sclerosis (2000) 6 50 - 55"}
{"id": "10680783", "title": "Cortical cerebral metabolism correlates with MRI lesion load and cognitive dysfunction in MS.", "content": "Cortical cerebral metabolism correlates with MRI lesion load and cognitive dysfunction in MS. To study the association between the cortical cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc), MRI T2-weighted total lesion area (TLA), cognitive dysfunction, and neurologic disability in MS. MRI lesion load is widely used in the clinical evaluation of the MS patient but little is known about the associated changes in cortical activation. Twenty-three patients with clinically definite MS underwent measurements of CMRglc, TLA, motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and cognitive and neurologic disability. CMRglc was calculated using PET and 18-F-deoxyglucose and compared with nine normal control subjects. Reductions in CMRglc (p < 0.01) were found in the cortical global and regional lobar measurements. Furthermore, regional CMRglc (rCMRglc) was reduced in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, caudate, putamen, thalamus, and hippocampus. Global cortical CMRglc correlated with TLA (Spearman rank correlation coefficient [SRCC] = -0.66, p = 0.001), and rCMRglc correlated with regional lesion load in all cerebral lobes (p < or = 0.05). Global cortical CMRglc and cognitive disability also correlated (SRCC = 0.58, p = 0.015), and stepwise regression analysis showed a significant association between rCMRglc of the right thalamus and cognitive performance as well as TLA. There was no correlation between CMRglc and neurologic disability (Expanded Disability Status Scale) or MEP. Global and regional cortical CMRglc is reduced significantly in MS patients compared with normal control subjects. Furthermore, the CMRglc reductions correlate with TLA as well as with cognitive dysfunction, which indicates that MRI white matter lesion burden has a deteriorating effect on cortical cerebral neural function."}
{"id": "10680688", "title": "Method to correlate 1H MRSI and 18FDG-PET.", "content": "Method to correlate 1H MRSI and 18FDG-PET. The in vivo neuronal contribution to human cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc), measured by 18FDG-PET, is unknown. Examining the effect of 1H MRSI-derived N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) concentration on positron emission tomography (PET) measures of metabolic activity might indicate the relationship of CMRglc to neuron density. In a population of 19 demented, cognitively impaired, and control subjects, the Miller-Gartner algorithm was applied to whole-brain PET data to isolate the PET signal originating in cortical gray matter alone (GMPET). An analogous procedure applied to multislice proton MRSI data yielded the N-acetyl aspartate concentration in cortical gray matter (GMNAA). In 18 of 19 subjects, a significant linear regression (P < 0.05) resulted when GMPET was plotted against GMNAA, whereby GMPET was higher for higher GMNAA. This suggests that CMRglc rises linearly with increasing neuron density in gray matter. This method may be used to investigate the relationship of CMRglc to neurons in various conditions."}
{"id": "10678516", "title": "Pedophilia and temporal lobe disturbances.", "content": "Pedophilia and temporal lobe disturbances. Paraphilias may occur with brain disease, but the nature of this relationship is unclear. The authors report 2 patients with late-life homosexual pedophilia. The first met criteria for frontotemporal dementia; the second had bilateral hippocampal sclerosis. Both were professional men with recent increases in sexual behavior. In both, 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealed prominent right temporal lobe hypometabolism. These cases and the literature suggest that bilateral anterior temporal disease affecting right more than left temporal lobe can increase sexual interest. A predisposition to pedophilia may be unmasked by hypersexuality from brain disease. These observations have potential implications for all neurologically based paraphilias."}
{"id": "10648441", "title": "Cortical dysfunction in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients: a combined (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET study.", "content": "Cortical dysfunction in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients: a combined (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET study. Regional cerebral phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P-MRS) was performed in 10 non- demented Parkinson's disease patients and nine age-matched control subjects. Five of the patients undergoing (31)P-MRS and four additional Parkinson's disease patients had cerebral 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET ((18)FDG-PET), the results of which were compared with those of eight age-matched control subjects. All Parkinson's disease patients underwent neuropsychological testing including performance and verbal subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised, Boston Naming Test, Controlled Oral Word Association test (FAS Test) and California Learning Test to exclude clinical dementia. (31)P MR spectra from right and left temporo-parietal cortex, occipital cortex and a central voxel incorporating basal ganglia and brainstem were obtained. (31)P MR peak area ratios of signals from phosphomonoesters (PMEs), inorganic phosphate (P(i)), phosphodiesters (PDEs), alpha-ATP, gamma-ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr) relative to beta-ATP were measured. Relative percentage peak areas of PMEs, P(i), PDEs, PCr, and alpha-, beta- and gamma-ATP signals were also measured with respect to the total (31)P-MRS signal. Significant bilateral increases in the P(i)/beta-ATP ratio were found in temporoparietal cortex (P = 0.002 right and P = 0.014 left cortex) for the non-demented Parkinson's disease patients compared with controls. In the right temporoparietal cortex, there was also a significant increase in the mean relative percentage P(i) (P = 0.001). (18)FDG-PET revealed absolute bilateral reductions in glucose metabolism after partial volume effect correction in posterior parietal and temporal cortical grey matter (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively) for the Parkinson's disease group, using both volume of interest analysis and statistical parametric mapping. There were significant correlations between right temporoparietal P(i)/beta-ATP ratios and estimated reductions in performance IQ (r = 0.96, P < 0.001). Left temporoparietal P(i)/beta-ATP ratios correlated with full scale IQ and verbal IQ (r = -0.82, P = 0.006, r = -0.86, P = 0.003, respectively). In summary, temporoparietal cortical hypometabolism was seen in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients with both (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET, suggesting that both glycolytic and oxidative pathways are impaired. This dysfunction may reflect either the presence of primary cortical pathology or deafferentation of striato-cortical projections. (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET may both provide useful predictors of future cognitive impairment in a subset of Parkinson's disease patients who go on to develop dementia."}
{"id": "10645739", "title": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease: literature review and case report.", "content": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease: literature review and case report. We postulated that disruption of callosal pathways as occurs in Marchiafava-Bignami disease (MBD) is associated with marked impairment in brain functioning as measured by cognitive assessment and neuroimaging. MBD is considered to be a rare and severe complication of chronic alcoholism. It is characterized by necrosis and subsequent atrophy of the corpus callosum, which is the major brain structure connecting corresponding areas of both hemispheres. We review the existing literature on MBD with respect to conceptualization, theories of pathogenesis, forms of the disease, and neuroimaging and neuropsychological findings. We then present the case of a middle-aged man with MBD who underwent extensive clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging studies. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed a pattern of severe global dementia. Magnetic resonance imaging showed moderate atrophy of anterior callosal regions and severe atrophy of posterior callosal regions in the setting of cortical and subcortical atrophy. Resting metabolism positron emission tomography revealed decreased glucose metabolism most pronounced in subcortical and mesial frontal regions. The differential diagnosis, function of the corpus callosum, and potential limitations of our case study are discussed. On account of the history, clinical presentation, and results of magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, we diagnosed our patient with chronic MBD."}
{"id": "10634523", "title": "Evaluation of standardized uptake value to assess cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Evaluation of standardized uptake value to assess cerebral glucose metabolism. When the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) is to be measured, arterial blood sampling is usually required for fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) studies. However, blood sampling is inconvenient because it requires several staff members and is invasive for patients. To assess cerebral glucose metabolism by a noninvasive and simplified method, the authors used the standardized uptake value (SUV), which requires no input function or blood sampling. The study participants included 18 healthy volunteers (4 men and 14 women; mean +/- SD age, 68.2+/-6.3 years), 18 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) (4 men and 14 women; mean +/- SD age, 68.8+/-7.3 years), and 18 patients with moderate AD (5 men and 13 women, mean +/- SD age, 69.5+/-8.5 years). Regional CMRglc and regional cerebral SUV were measured in the three groups using FDG PET, and the correlation between global CMRglc and global SUV was estimated. The correlation coefficients of global CMRglc and global SUV in the healthy volunteers, mild AD patients, and moderate AD patients were 0.82, 0.67, and 0.62, respectively. Compared with the healthy persons, the patients with mild AD showed significantly decreased CMRglc in the temporal, frontal, and parietal cortices, but they did not show significantly decreased SUV in any region. Patients with moderate AD had significantly decreased CMRglc in the temporal, frontal, occipital, parietal, and sensorimotor cortices and significantly decreased SUV in the temporal, frontal, occipital, and parietal cortices. The SUV would be useful as a semiquantitative index of cerebral glucose metabolism only in healthy persons or those with mild AD."}
{"id": "10676530", "title": "A comparative study in Alzheimer's and normal brains of trace element distribution using PIXE and INA analyses and glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography.", "content": "A comparative study in Alzheimer's and normal brains of trace element distribution using PIXE and INA analyses and glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography. The onset of Alzheimer's disease has been shown to affect trace element concentrations in the brain when compared to \"normal\" subjects in ex vivo samples. The techniques used to determine trace element concentrations were proton-induced X-ray emission and instrumental neutron activation analysis. With these methods, significant differences are seen between lobes within a hemisphere and between the same lobes of opposing hemispheres for \"normal\" brains. The change observed in trace element concentrations may indicate a possible alteration in the function of the blood-brain barrier, the effect of which can be investigated in vivo using the imaging technique of positron emission tomography (PET). A PET study was performed on nine female and nine male subjects to determine whether the regional metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGlu) varied between hemispheres and sex in the Alzheimer diseased brain as was seen in the trace element study. Glucose metabolism was measured using [F-18]-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG). Hemispherical differences were observed for the frontal, occipital, parietal lobes, and the temporolateral region in both males and females for rCMRGlu. Variation was also seen between sexes, where the frontal lobe had a lower rCMRGlu in females compared to that of males."}
{"id": "10672264", "title": "Discordance between traditional pathologic and energy metabolic changes in very early Alzheimer's disease. Pathophysiological implications.", "content": "Discordance between traditional pathologic and energy metabolic changes in very early Alzheimer's disease. Pathophysiological implications. These results suggest that neither the loss of entorhinal efferents nor cholinergic deficit explains all the metabolic features seen in very early AD. Given recent immunohistological evidence of massive glutamatergic synaptic alteration in early AD cortex and insights into neuronal and glial mechanisms of glucose metabolism, very early metabolic changes in AD probably reflect a significant impairment of glycolytic activities in the cortico-cortical glutamatergic systems in a preclinical stage of the disease. However, the exact mechanisms of such impairment in these neurons are yet to be determined."}
{"id": "10672235", "title": "Functional brain imaging in the resting state and during activation in Alzheimer's disease. Implications for disease mechanisms involving oxidative phosphorylation.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in the resting state and during activation in Alzheimer's disease. Implications for disease mechanisms involving oxidative phosphorylation. In vivo brain imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in resting-state brain glucose metabolism and blood flow in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. During cognitive or psychophysical stimulation, blood flow and metabolism in the affected regions can increase to the same extent in mildly demented AD patients as in age-matched controls, suggesting that energy delivery is not rate limiting. Activation declines with dementia severity, and is markedly reduced in severely demented patients. These results suggest that there is an initial \"normal\" functionally-responsive stage in AD, followed by a late less responsive stage. Studies of biopsied and postmortem brain indicate that the initial stage is accompanied by selective and potentially reversible down-regulation of the brain enzymes, including cytochrome oxidase, which mediate mitochondrial oxidative-phosphorylation."}
{"id": "10666680", "title": "Impaired brain glucose metabolism in patients with Down syndrome.", "content": "Impaired brain glucose metabolism in patients with Down syndrome. A series of impaired metabolic functions in Down Syndrome (DS) including glucose handling has been described. Recent information from positron emission tomography studies in DS patients and our finding of downregulated phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) in fetal brain with DS by gene hunting using subtractive hybridization, made us investigate PGI, a key enzyme of glucose metabolism, in brain of patients with DS, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and controls. PGI and phosphofructokinase (PFK) activities were determined in frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital lobe and cerebellum of 9 controls, 9 patients with DS and 9 patients with AD. PGI activity in DS brain was significantly decreased in frontal, temporal lobe and cerebellum, comparable to controls in parietal lobe and elevated in occipital lobe. Brain PGI activity of patients with AD was comparable to controls in all regions tested, PFK, a rate limiting enzyme of glucose metabolism, was comparable between all brain regions of all three groups. Data of this study confirm impaired glucose metabolism in DS proposed in literature and found by positron emission tomography (PET) studies. We show that changes in glucose handling in patients with AD as evaluated by PET studies are not supported by our data, although not contradictory, as determinants other than glucose metabolizing enzymes as e.g. vascular factors and glucose transport may account for these findings. Changes of downregulated PGI found by subtractive hybridization at the transcriptional level in fetal DS brain along with our findings in DS brain regions suggest a strong specific link between glucose metabolism and DS rather than AD."}
{"id": "10662962", "title": "The role of emission tomography in dementia.", "content": "The role of emission tomography in dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPET) offer the opportunity to improve a diagnosis of dementia by providing regional functional measurements, which can be used to substantiate the clinical judgement. Further progress in the differential diagnosis among degenerative dementias is expected from pathological confirmation in the follow-up of patients evaluated with neuroimaging methods. A prospective multi-center cohort study of patients with possible or probable Alzheimer's disease mostly with presenile onset, showed impairment of brain glucose metabolism in temporoparietal or frontal association areas, as measured with PET. This was associated significantly with dementia severity, clinical classification, presence of multiple cognitive deficits, and history of progression. In addition, prospective longitudinal analysis showed a significant association between initial metabolic impairment (metabolic ratio = 0.80) and subsequent clinical deterioration. In patients with mild cognitive deficits at entry, the risk of deterioration was up to 4.7-times higher if metabolism was severely impaired than with mild or absent metabolic impairment. In the future, it might be possible to use different tracers to measure neurotransmitter release or receptor function. It may also be possible to scan the patient while performing cognitive tasks to examine changes in functional brain activity during pharmacological treatments."}
{"id": "10654100", "title": "In vivo PET imaging and postmortem studies suggest potentially reversible and irreversible stages of brain metabolic failure in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "In vivo PET imaging and postmortem studies suggest potentially reversible and irreversible stages of brain metabolic failure in Alzheimer's disease. In vivo brain imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in resting-state brain glucose metabolism and blood flow (markers of synaptic activity) in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. During cognitive or psychophysical stimulation, however, blood flow and metabolism in the affected brain regions can increase to the same extent in mildly demented AD patients as in age-matched controls, despite reduced resting state values. The extent of activation declines with dementia severity and is markedly reduced in severely demented patients. Thus, there appears to be an initial functionally-responsive stage in AD, which direct brain analysis suggests is accompanied by reversible down-regulation because of reduced synaptic energy demand of enzymes mediating mitochondrial oxidative-phosphorylation. A later irreversible stage of AD is accompanied by marked synaptic loss, accumulation of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, reduced general transcriptional capacity, and death of neurons."}
{"id": "10654093", "title": "Early diagnosis of Alzheimer dementia based on clinical and biological factors.", "content": "Early diagnosis of Alzheimer dementia based on clinical and biological factors. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is common in elderly individuals; it causes distress for the patients and their relatives as well as large costs for the society. With the advent of symptomatic treatment at present and probable etiology-based cures in the future, it will be possible to relieve and put an end to these negative effects. Therefore, it is necessary to diagnose the disease as early as possible. In this review, we briefly summarize the state-of-the-art concerning various available clinical and biochemical methods for identifying AD. Increasing age, heritage, and presence of ApoE e4 allele have been confirmed as risk factors for AD as well as some putative factors (e.g., low education, hypertension, hypotension) based on epidemiological recent research. Selective impairment of episodic memory has been found to be a preclinical marker for future development of AD based on convergent data from asymptomatic AD-related mutation carriers, longitudinal studies of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and epidemiological studies of incident AD cases. Neurophysiological methods are inexpensive and useful for the identification of changes in brain dysfunction in AD and new promising methods are under development. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRT), structural measurements of brain atrophy and specific brain structures such as the hippocampus have been reported to detect dementia development early in the course of disease. Similarly, functional measurements of brain activity (e.g., blood flow) have revealed that hypometabolism in bilateral parietotemporal brain areas early in the disease course. Finally, biochemical studies have demonstrated that certain proteins (e.g., tau the A beta 1-42/43 metabolite of the amyloid precursor protein) may be associated with the disease process in AD, although the specificity of these markers remains to be established. It is concluded that still no single marker of AD exists, which makes it necessary to rely on data from multiple sources in order to arrive at the best possible diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "10637939", "title": "PET studies and cholinergic therapy in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET studies and cholinergic therapy in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most devastating brain disorders of elderly humans. The last decade has witnessed a steadily increasing effort directed at discovery of the etiology of the disease and development of pharmacological treatment stategies. Symptomatic treatment mainly focussing on cholinergic therapy has been clinical evaluated by randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group studies measuring performance based tests of cognitive function, activity of daily living and behavior. Significant progress has been made in recent years to develop and apply functional brain imaging techniques allowing early diagnosis of dementia and evaluation of treatment efficacy. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a suitable method for functional studies of pathological changes in brain which as a clinical instrument not solely reveal dysfunctional changes early in the course of the disease but also may provide a deep insight into the functional mechanisms of new potential drug treatment strategies. The advantage with PET is the capacity not only to measure changes in glucose metabolism, cerebral blood flow but also to obtain further insight into neuronal communicative processes (transmitter/receptor interactions) in brain and pharmacokinetic events and drug mechanisms. PET studies have so far revealed disturbances in some neuroreceptor systems in brain of AD patients. A significant correlation can be observed between the impairment of nicotinic receptors in the temporal cortex and the cognitive impairment of AD patients. Cholinergic drugs including cholinesterase inhibitors such as physostigmine, tacrine, velnacrine as well as the acetylcholine releaser linopiridine have been reported to increase the cerebral blood flow in AD patients both after acute and fairly short period of treatment. Increase in cerebral glucose metabolism has also been measured following fairly long periods of treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors (months). The cholinergic nicotinic and muscarinic receptors do also respond to treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors in AD patients. An improvement of the nicotinic receptors has been found in cortical regions following treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors and nerve growth factors (NGF) to AD patients. Functional PET activation studies performed simultaneously with memory tasks will provide further valuable insight into the mechanisms of action of new drug, how they interact and can improve the efficacy of memory processes in AD brains."}
{"id": "10637936", "title": "Diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease. Current criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease require that the patient also fulfils the criteria for dementia. This means inevitably that the disease is well-established. As treatments become available there is an important need for early diagnosis. There are two components to diagnosis; the recognition that cognitive performance is below that which would be anticipated for the individual and secondly to relate this to a specific disease process. Research studies need to identify the very earliest changes i.e. before symptoms commence. Such studies have focused on at risk populations either by virtue of age or a positive family history. Both groups have demonstrated that memory is the salient early feature, particularly verbal memory, impairment of which may precede overt symptoms by many years. The other major approach has been that of neuroimaging. Group studies of at risk individuals, for example for those who carry an apoE4 allele, have shown relative biparietal, bitemporal hypometabolism in the at risk group. Similarly, structural neuroimaging may show hippocampal atrophy at an early stage. Serial studies to determine rate of change, may be more valuable than single cross-sectional studies. Recent techniques of positional matching and registration allow precise quantitation of rates of cerebral atrophy which may be useful in early diagnosis."}
{"id": "10616886", "title": "Comparative evaluation of MR-based partial-volume correction schemes for PET.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of MR-based partial-volume correction schemes for PET. Because of limitations of spatial resolution, quantitative PET measurements of cerebral blood flow, glucose metabolism and neuroreceptor binding are influenced by partial-volume averaging among neighboring tissues with differing tracer concentrations. Two MR-based approaches to partial-volume correction of PET images were compared using simulations and a multicompartment phantom. The two-compartment method corrects PET data for the diluting effects of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces. The more complex three-compartment method also accounts for the effect of partial-volume averaging between gray and white matter. The effects of the most significant sources of error on MR-based partial-volume correction, including misregistration, resolution mismatch, segmentation errors and white matter heterogeneity, were evaluated. We also examined the relative usefulness of both approaches in PET studies of aging and neurodegenerative disease. Although the three-compartment method was highly accurate (with 100% gray matter recovery achieved in simulations), it was also more sensitive to all errors tested, particularly image segmentation and PET-MR registration. Based on these data, we conclude that the two-compartment approach is better suited for comparative PET studies, whereas the three-compartment algorithm is capable of greater accuracy for absolute quantitative measures."}
{"id": "10609685", "title": "Executive control function: a rational basis for the diagnosis of vascular dementia.", "content": "Executive control function: a rational basis for the diagnosis of vascular dementia. Problems with diagnostic criteria for vascular dementia (VaD) stem from the inadequacy of the current dementia concept, a paradigm based on amnestic and other cortical deficits typical of Alzheimer disease (AD). However, most cases of VaD are due to subcortical lesions such as Binswanger-type periventricular white matter ischemia, or strokes causing decreased frontal activation and diaschisis-mediated cerebral hypoperfusion. We propose a new definition of dementia based on executive dysfunction and a formal assessment of executive control functions (ECF) for the diagnosis of VaD. The instruments proposed are the rapid screening executive clock-drawing task (CLOX; Royall et al. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998;64:588-94), and the more comprehensive Executive Interview Test (EXIT25; Royall et al. J Am Geriatr Soc 1992;40:122-6). Extensive application of these tests in elderly subjects in retirement communities has shown that both are brief, simple to administer, and more sensitive case-finding tools for cognitively impaired individuals than the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). These three tests (CLOX, EXIT25, MMSE) accurately separate nondemented subjects from those with cortical or subcortical (frontal system) dementias. In addition, for controlled clinical trials of VaD, formal evaluation of motor and frontal sphincter functions--usually not considered part of the dementia syndrome--should also be included. Evaluation of gait and falls, timed-walk, manual dexterity, timed finger-tapping, and frontal bladder control (urge incontinence and nocturia) should improve determination of functional status and disability, and more accurately measure the effects of potential therapies."}
{"id": "10604746", "title": "Tau gene mutation G389R causes a tauopathy with abundant pick body-like inclusions and axonal deposits.", "content": "Tau gene mutation G389R causes a tauopathy with abundant pick body-like inclusions and axonal deposits. Exonic and intronic mutations in Tau cause familial neurodegenerative syndromes characterized by frontotemporal dementia and dysfunction of multiple cortical and subcortical circuits. Here we describe a G389R mutation in exon 13 of Tau. When 38 years old, the proband presented with progressive aphasia and memory disturbance, followed by apathy, indifference, and hyperphagia. Repeated magnetic resonance imaging showed the dramatic progression of cerebral atrophy. Positron emission tomography revealed marked glucose hypometabolism that was most severe in left frontal, temporal, and parietal cortical regions. Rigidity, pyramidal signs and profound dementia progressed until death at 43 years of age. A paternal uncle, who had died at 43 years of age, had presented with similar symptoms. The proband's brain showed numerous tau-immunoreactive Pick body-like inclusions in the neocortex and the fascia dentata of the hippocampus. In addition, large numbers of tau-positive filamentous inclusions were present in axons in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes. Immunoblot analysis of sarkosyl-insoluble tau showed 2 major bands of 60 and 64 kDa. Upon dephosphorylation, these bands resolved into 4 bands consisting of three- and four-repeat tau isoforms. Most isolated tau filaments were straight and resembled filaments found in Alzheimer disease and some frontotemporal dementias with tau mutations. A smaller number of twisted filaments was also observed. Biochemically, recombinant tau proteins with the G389R mutation showed a reduced ability to promote microtubule assembly, suggesting that this may be the primary effect of the mutation. Taken together, the present findings indicate that the G389R mutation in Tau can cause a dementing condition that closely resembles Pick's disease."}
{"id": "10599878", "title": "Diminished neuronal metabolic activity in Alzheimer's disease. Review article.", "content": "Diminished neuronal metabolic activity in Alzheimer's disease. Review article. An increasing number of studies have appeared in the literature suggesting that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a hypometabolic brain disorder. Decreased metabolism in AD has been revealed by a variety of in vivo and postmortem methods and techniques including positron emission tomography and glucose metabolism. We used the size of the Golgi apparatus (GA) and cell profile area as indicators of neuronal activity in postmortem material. Using an antibody against MG-160, a sialoglycoprotein of the medial cisternae of the GA, we were able to visualize and quantify the GA area. In a series of experiments, we tried to relate neuronal metabolism to different hallmarks of AD, i.e. plaques and tangles, and also to genetic risk factors for AD like age and (apolipoprotein E) ApoE polymorphism. Our results showed that in AD there is indeed a clear reduction in brain metabolism in several severely affected brain regions including the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM), the CA1 area of the hippocampus and the hypothalamic tuberomamillary nucleus. However, the reduction in neuronal activity did not seem to be caused by the presence of neuropathological hallmarks of AD, i.e. plaques and tangles. There was, however, a clear relationship between the presence of ApoE epsilon4 alleles and a decrease in GA size. Our data suggest that decreased neuronal activity and neuropathological hallmarks of AD, such as plaques and tangles, are basically independent phenomena. Moreover, ApoE epsilon4 may participate in the pathogenesis of AD by decreasing neuronal metabolism. The main implication of these findings is that therapeutic strategies in AD should be focussed on reactivation of neuronal metabolism."}
{"id": "10599766", "title": "Functional anatomy of neuropsychological deficits after severe traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Functional anatomy of neuropsychological deficits after severe traumatic brain injury. Neurobehavioral disorders after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) are poorly correlated with focal lesions detected by structural neuroimaging techniques such as CT scan or MRI. To explore the relationships between regional cerebral glucose metabolism at rest, as measured by PET, and neurobehavioral status after severe TBI at the subacute stage. Thirteen patients without focal structural lesion on MRI were studied. Neuropsychological assessment included tests of memory, attention and speed of information processing, and executive functions, and a global neurobehavioral assessment. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism at rest was measured with (18F)-fluorodeoxyglucose and PET. A close link was found between cognitive and behavioral disorders and decreased cortical metabolism in prefrontal and cingulate cortex. Tests of memory and executive functions significantly correlated with regional metabolism in the mesial and lateral prefrontal cortex and the cingulate gyrus. Behavioral disorders correlated significantly with mesial prefrontal and cingulate metabolisms. These results suggest a predominant role of prefrontal and cingulate dysfunction in cognitive and behavioral disorders of patients with severe traumatic brain injury, even in the absence of focal structural lesion of the brain. Further cognitive functional activation research using PET or functional MRI might help clarify the relative contributions of both areas to dysfunction."}
{"id": "10581228", "title": "Huntington's disease progression. PET and clinical observations.", "content": "Huntington's disease progression. PET and clinical observations. Using serial [(11)C]SCH 23390- and [11C]raclopride-PET, we have measured the rate of loss of striatal dopamine D1 and D2 receptor binding over a mean of 40 months in nine asymptomatic adult Huntington's disease mutation carriers, four patients with symptomatic disease, seven mutation-negative controls and three subjects at risk for the disease. Eight of the nine asymptomatic Huntington's disease mutation carriers had serial [11C]raclopride-PET and showed a mean annual loss of striatal D2 binding of 4.0%. Only five of these eight, however, showed active progression, and they had a mean annual loss of D2 binding of 6.5%. All nine asymptomatic mutation carriers had serial [11C]SCH 23390-PET and showed a mean annual loss of striatal D1 binding of 2. 0%. Four of these subjects demonstrated active progression and they had a mean annual loss of 4.5%. Our four symptomatic Huntington's disease patients showed a mean annual loss of D2 binding of 3.0% and of D1 binding of 5.0%. Loss of striatal D1 and D2 binding was significantly greater in the known mutation carriers than in the combined at-risk and gene-negative groups (P < 0.05). At follow-up PET all subjects were clinically assessed using the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale. Scores for motor function and total functional capacity correlated with PET measures of striatal dopamine receptor binding both in the asymptomatic mutation carriers (D1, P < 0.01) and across the combined asymptomatic and clinically affected Huntington's disease mutation carrier group (D1 and D2, P < 0.001). We conclude that PET measures of striatal D1 and D2 dopamine binding can be used to identify asymptomatic Huntington's disease mutation carriers who are actively progressing and who would thus be suitable for putative neuroprotective therapies. Measures of disease progression rates in Huntington's disease patients and asymptomatic mutation carriers will be of critical importance in future trials of experimental restorative treatments."}
{"id": "10559570", "title": "A follow-up study of the family with the Swedish APP 670/671 Alzheimer's disease mutation.", "content": "A follow-up study of the family with the Swedish APP 670/671 Alzheimer's disease mutation. To study the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) at a very early stage and to evaluate clinical markers of presymptomatic AD. Longitudinal study at a university hospital. A Swedish family harboring a double mutation at codons 670/671 of the APP gene on chromosome 21 was followed longitudinally for 3 years. Both mutation carriers and noncarriers participated. Results from clinical investigations, electroencephalography, neuropsychological and neuroradiological examinations including magnetic resonance imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography were assessed and compared on two or more occasions. During follow-up, 1 initially asymptomatic mutation carrier who was near the expected age of onset for this family, developed cognitive symptoms, and at the end of the follow-up fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for AD. One mutation carrier with cognitive symptoms at the first examination showed clinical deterioration and was diagnosed with AD. One demented mutation carrier died and was shown to have typical AD neuropathology at autopsy. The two remaining asymptomatic mutation carriers, as well as all the noncarriers were asymptomatic. These mutation carriers who were near the expected age of onset of AD but without clinical signs of the disease, did not show changes in either electrophysiological parameters or volumes of the temporal lobes. However, in these 2 individuals the blood flow in the temporal lobe showed intermediate values between the symptomatic mutation carriers and healthy noncarriers. Two neuropsychological tests showed a deterioration that paralleled clinical symptoms in 1 of the mutation carriers who was close to the expected age of onset and who at the end of the follow-up had clinical signs of AD. In the same subject, brain glucose metabolism was pathologically reduced in the temporal lobes before other clinical symptoms were obvious. In this familial form of AD a reduced temporal lobe glucose metabolism was indicative of AD before the expected clinical onset. Reduced glucose metabolism even preceded the development of subjective or objective cognitive dysfunction and might therefore serve as a clinical marker for AD before the onset of clinical symptoms. Reduced cerebral blood flow in the temporal lobes and cognitive deterioration paralleled the clinical decline in the early stage of the disease. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel"}
{"id": "10559569", "title": "Dementia with leukoaraiosis: clinical differentiation by temporoparietal hypometabolism on (18)FDG-PET imaging.", "content": "Dementia with leukoaraiosis: clinical differentiation by temporoparietal hypometabolism on (18)FDG-PET imaging. Patients with dementia and leukoaraiosis may have either Alzheimer's disease (AD) with cerebrovascular changes or a form of vascular dementia (VaD). The presence or absence of the characteristic AD pattern of bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism on (18)FDG-PET was used to differentiate 30 patients with progressive dementia and severe leukoaraiosis. Compared to 18 patients with the typical AD pattern (group I), the remaining 12 (group II) had better recognition memory, and greater difficulty with sustained attention and serial reversals. Better recognition memory, confluent periventricular leukoaraiosis, and poorer sustained attention distinguished all group II patients from group I. Dementia patients with severe leukoaraiosis and bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism may have predominant AD; those who lack this pattern and have confluent leukoaraiosis may have a greater contribution from VaD. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel"}
{"id": "10559566", "title": "Impairment of neocortical metabolism predicts progression in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Impairment of neocortical metabolism predicts progression in Alzheimer's disease. Progression rates of Alzheimer's disease (AD) vary considerably, and they are particularly difficult to predict in patients with mild cognitive impairment. We performed a prospective multicenter cohort study in 186 patients with possible or probable AD, mostly with presenile onset. In a cross-sectional analysis at entry, impairment of glucose metabolism in temporoparietal or frontal association areas measured with positron emission tomography was significantly associated with dementia severity, clinical classification as possible versus probable AD, presence of multiple cognitive deficits and history of progression. A prospective longitudinal analysis showed a significant association between initial metabolic impairment and subsequent clinical deterioration. In patients with mild cognitive deficits at entry, the risk of deterioration was up to 4.7 times higher if the metabolism was severely impaired than with mild or absent metabolic impairment. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG, Basel"}
{"id": "10549796", "title": "Mapping biochemistry to metabolism: FDG-PET and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Mapping biochemistry to metabolism: FDG-PET and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease. We evaluated the relationship between amyloid-beta protein (A beta) concentration and the metabolic abnormality in an Alzheimer's disease (AD) patient as measured by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). Across most regions there were significant inverse correlations among FDG-PET intensity values and both insoluble. The temporal lobe samples showed no significant correlation between FDG-PET values and A beta deposition. Findings support A beta as contributing to the hypometabolism in regions of the AD brain that are still relatively viable metabolically; those regions with chronic pathologic damage, such as temporal cortex, may have other factors that contribute to metabolic deficits."}
{"id": "10548999", "title": "[CADASIL. Clinical aspects, neuroradiology, genetics and diagnosis].", "content": "[CADASIL. Clinical aspects, neuroradiology, genetics and diagnosis]. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary cerebral vasculopathy progressing to subcortical dementia, caused by multiple lacunar infarcts and ischemic white matter degeneration. Migraine with aura, epileptic seizures and affective disorders are frequent additional symptoms of CADASIL. The causative mutations of the Notch3 gene are located on chromosome 19p13.1. There is complete penetrance of this disorder, although individual expression of symptoms may vary. Manifestation of CADASIL is usually in the 3rd decade, but some individuals remain asymptomatic close to the age of 60. MRI displays a marked leukoencephalopathy in affected individuals as early as in the age of 20. Frontal and subcortical hypoperfusion in demented individuals was demonstrated by SPECT-studies. The prevalence of CADASIL is still not known. To date there is no causative therapy."}
{"id": "10544727", "title": "Early thalamic and cortical hypometabolism in adult-onset dementia due to metachromatic leukodystrophy.", "content": "Early thalamic and cortical hypometabolism in adult-onset dementia due to metachromatic leukodystrophy. A case of early-onset adult dementia with family history of dementia is reported, characterised by neuropsychological deficits, suggesting frontal involvement, with mild non specific white matter abnormalities on CT scan. Familial Alzheimer's disease was suspected but the neuropathological diagnosis on brain biopsy was metachromatic leukodystrophy. 18FDG-PET revealed a very peculiar pattern of metabolic impairment in thalamic areas, in medial and frontopolar regions, and in occipital lobes. Neuropsychological follow-up showed relatively stable difficulties of long-term memory and signs of frontal lobe dysfunction, similar to those observed in subcortical dementias. MRI subsequently showed periventricular leukoencephalopathy. The brain metabolic pattern observed in that case of metachromatic leukodystrophy was quite different from that reported in other types of dementia."}
{"id": "10533455", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Central nervous system treatment for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) has been reported to cause changes in cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism. Little is known about the association of these functional changes with neuropsychological defects and structural changes. The aim of the present study was to assess the relationship between changes in regional cerebral blood flow and glucose utilisation in long-term survivors of ALL, and the association of these functional abnormalities with neurocognitive and structural defects. 8 survivors of childhood ALL were studied with single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using Tc99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) as tracer and with positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as tracer. 8 healthy controls also underwent FDG-PET. All subjects also underwent magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychological assessment 5 years after cessation of the therapy. Focal cerebral blood flow abnormalities were found in ECD-SPECT in 5 of the 8 survivors. Glucose utilisation appeared normal in the corresponding regions. However, glucose utilisation was decreased in thalamus and cerebellum in the survivors of ALL as compared with healthy controls. 3 patients had severe and 5 patients mild neurocognitive difficulties. The changes in cerebral blood flow and FDG uptake did not correspond neuroanatomically with the neurocognitive defects. Focal defects in cerebral blood flow in long-term survivors of ALL are not associated with changes in local cerebral glucose utilisation. Neurocognitive difficulties are not consistently associated with either changes in cerebral blood flow or with decreased glucose utilisation. Therefore, based on the present set of studies FDG-PET and ECD-SPECT cannot yet be recommended for the evaluation of long-term neurocognitive defects associated with treatment of ALL."}
{"id": "10526199", "title": "Medial temporal lobe metabolic impairment in dementia associated with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Medial temporal lobe metabolic impairment in dementia associated with motor neuron disease. In the course of their disease certain patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) develop clinical features compatible with a motor neuron disease (FTD-MND). Previous reports have suggested that the functional pattern is similar in FTD and FTD-MND. However, some neuropathological studies suggest greater involvement of medial temporal regions in FTD-MND than in FTD. Using statistical parametric mapping (SPM96), we compared the metabolic patterns obtained at rest with positron emission tomography in 10 FTD patients and three FTD-MND patients with those obtained from 46 healthy subjects (HS). Mean age, duration of illness and dementia stage did not differ statistically between the FTD and FTD-MND groups. In comparison with HS, both groups showed frontal and anterior temporal hypometabolism at P<0.001. When the FTD-MND group was compared to the FTD group, significant hypometabolism was only observed in bilateral amygdala, bilateral hippocampus, and bilateral enthorinal and parahippocampal regions (Brodmann's areas, BA 28/36) at P<0.005. We found no significant differences in regional glucose uptake when FTD patients were contrasted to FTD-MND patients. Our results suggest statistically comparable frontal and lateral temporal hypometabolism in both conditions but greater impairment of medial temporal lobe activity in FTD-MND. Our results and a review of the literature support the hypothesis that there is a functional continuum between classical motor neuron disease (cMND), FTD-MND, and FTD."}
{"id": "10521554", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia presenting as conduction aphasia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia presenting as conduction aphasia. We report a case of a woman with primary progressive aphasia (PPA) who presented with conduction aphasia. A 60-year-old, right-handed, Japanese female suffering from progressive aphasia had difficulty in repeating words and phrases. She displayed phonemic paraphasias but had preserved comprehension and had no cognitive or behavior disorder for more than 6 years after the onset of the condition. She was able to continue to work successfully and to perform all her normal daily activities. T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging revealed minute dilatation of the left inferior horn and sulci in the left hemisphere, and positron emission tomography revealed mild hypometabolism in the left supramarginal gyrus and its surrounding areas. Therefore, she was diagnosed as suffering from PPA presenting as conduction aphasia. We believe that the progressive conduction aphasia of the patient belongs to one of the fluent forms of PPA, and the ability to continue normal work along with the clinical portrayal of preserved memory and cognition skills may be features of a form of PPA presenting as conduction aphasia."}
{"id": "10515194", "title": "Cerebrospinal fluid levels of amyloid beta-peptide1-42, but not tau have positive correlation with brain glucose metabolism in humans.", "content": "Cerebrospinal fluid levels of amyloid beta-peptide1-42, but not tau have positive correlation with brain glucose metabolism in humans. To address the question of whether assay for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of amyloid beta-peptide 1-42 (A(beta)1-42) and tau allow us to monitor the neurodegenerative processes that lead to a progressive and massive death of neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and non-AD patients, cerebral glucose metabolism using 2-[18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose was quantified by positron emission tomography in fifteen AD patients and nine non-AD patients with defined levels of CSF-A(beta)1-42 and CSF-tau. The CSF-A(beta)1-42 levels, but not the CSF-tau levels, in both AD and non-AD patients consistently and significantly correlated with global and, in particular, temporal lobe glucose metabolism. Results from our study suggest that the CSF-A(beta)1-42 levels may reflect residual brain function and help monitoring progression of dementing disorders."}
{"id": "10481106", "title": "[Correlations between brain SPECT and neuropsychology assessments in mild and moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Correlations between brain SPECT and neuropsychology assessments in mild and moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease]. Thirty-four patients with a probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD) (mild AD = 16; moderate AD = 18) and 12 matched controls were evaluated using semiquantitative SPECT-99mTc-HMPAO and neuropsychological tests (CERAD). Both temporal hypoperfusion (p < 0.01) and memory tests (p < 0.001) made it possible to differentiate the controls from mild AD patients. In these patients, significant correlations (p < 0.05) were also found between: 1) delayed recall test/temporal hypoperfusion, 2) learning memory test/temporoparietal and frontal hypoperfusion and 3) visual constructive praxis/posterior temporal hypoperfusion. In contrast to mild AD, moderate AD patients showed higher temporal (p < 0.01) parietal and frontal (p < 0.05) hypoperfusion along with worsening of praxis (p < 0.001) and memory tests (p < 0.05). SPECT imaging and neuropsychology evaluation can distinguish controls from AD patients with mild an moderate grades of dementia, showing a strong correlation from the early stages of AD."}
{"id": "10460992", "title": "Mitochondrial genome lesions in the pathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Mitochondrial genome lesions in the pathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease. The recent, magnificent results of molecular biology concerning beta-amyloid (betaA) metabolism in early onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) have generated a series of new findings and, in turn, a new etiological concept. Attention on the early events in the pathogenesis of AD has been shifted from the chromosomal abnormalities in the nucleus of nerve cells onto genetic changes in the mitochondrial genome. This offers a new pathogenetic approach which also opens new pharmacological challenges particularly for the episodic forms of AD. Alterations occurring at the mitochondrial genome result in major consequences of oxidative phosphorylation and, if a specific threshold is exceeded, they may constitute important causative events in the apoptosis of selected nerve cells. The fact that the main source of mitochondrial metabolism is its glucose turnover allows monitoring brain changes in glucose metabolism by 18F-2 deoxyglucose positron emission tomography. In the demented brain, a low glucose turnover causes a cholinergic deficit by decreasing the synthetic rate of acetyl coenzyme A (AcCoA). AcCoA represents the key substrate for the acetylation of choline to acetylcholine by choline acetyltransferase. The consistent energy need for AcCoA synthesis appears obvious when considering that 1 molecule of glucose generates just 2 molecules of AcCoA, but 38 molecules of ATP. In the brain, AcCoA is exclusively synthesized in the glycolitic pathway. Generation of betaA is increased if the synthetic rate of ATP drops below a critical threshold: under these conditions, the betaA precursor protein (betaAPP) is inserted only in part into synaptic membranes which have the highest betaAPP turnover. In conditions of short ATP supply, betaAPP is not split at the beta region by an ATP-activated protease and this results in a substantial increase in uncleaved betaA molecules. Peroxidative alterations in mitochondrial DNA are of importance in degenerative diseases of postmitotic tissues, particularly in degenerative diseases. This offers a new pharmacological approach for the treatment of AD. Neurotrophic factors and estrogen seem to be the first pharmacological leads."}
{"id": "10457954", "title": "[Two cases of fronto-temporal dementia without remarkable lobar atrophy].", "content": "[Two cases of fronto-temporal dementia without remarkable lobar atrophy]. Front-temporal dementia (FTD), advocated by Lund and Manchester groups, includes Pick type corresponding to the conventional frontal Pick's disease, motor-neuron type associated with neural symptoms, and frontal lobe degeneration type. In Japan, however, there have been few case reports of the frontal lobe degeneration type. Here we examined clinical characteristics and imaging findings of 2 cases of FTD frontal lobe degeneration type. Neurological examinations were normal. CT and MRI scans revealed no obvious frontal lobar atrophy, while HMPAO-SPECT scans demonstrated remarkable hypoperfusion in anterior hemisphere. Neuropsychological examination revealed frontal symptoms, including personality change, stereotypes, and disinhibition. These symptoms can not be distinguished from the cases of FTD Pick type, because those cases of FTD Pick type have obvious lobar atrophy."}
{"id": "10449557", "title": "Progressive frontal gait disturbance with atypical Alzheimer's disease and corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Progressive frontal gait disturbance with atypical Alzheimer's disease and corticobasal degeneration. The clinical neuropsychological, neuroradiological, and neuropathological description of two patients presenting with a frontal gait disturbance. Clinical case note review, neuropsychological assessment, functional imaging with (15)O(2) and (18)F-fluorodopa PET, and neuropathology. Both patients presented with frontal gait impairment and only later developed more widespread cognitive impairment. In both cases (15)O(2) PET disclosed focal hypometabolism in the medial frontal lobes and in one patient (18)F-fluorodopa uptake into the caudate and putamen was normal. The neuropathological examination in one patient showed Alzheimer's histopathology together with large swollen eosinophilic neurons characteristic of corticobasal degeneration, which were particularly prominent in the medial frontal lobes. Focal degeneration of the medial frontal lobes may present as an isolated gait disturbance and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients who present without an obvious structural abnormality on neuroimaging."}
{"id": "10448800", "title": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a clinical-anatomic correlation.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a clinical-anatomic correlation. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare transmissible disease that typically causes a rapidly progressive dementia and leads to death in less than 1 year. Although a few anecdotal reports suggest that diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging may help substantiate premortem diagnosis of CJD, detailed correlation between radiographic data and clinical, electrophysiologic, and metabolic parameters is not available. Signal abnormalities on diffusion-weighted images in 3 consecutive patients with probable CJD were correlated with psychometric features, electroencephalographic findings, and functional images with either positron emission tomography or single photon emission computed tomography. Focality of abnormalities on diffusion-weighted image, not apparent on routine magnetic resonance images, correlated closely with clinical manifestations of CJD. The topographic distribution of signal abnormality on diffusion-weighted image corresponded with abnormal metabolism or perfusion on positron emission and single photon emission computed tomographic scans. In 2 cases, the laterality of diffusion abnormalities correlated with periodic sharp wave activity on electroencephalograms. These findings extend previous observations that suggested a diagnostic and localizing utility of diffusion-weighted imaging in CJD."}
{"id": "10433321", "title": "Bilateral contemporaneous posteroventral pallidotomy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease: neuropsychological and neurological side effects. Report of four cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Bilateral contemporaneous posteroventral pallidotomy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease: neuropsychological and neurological side effects. Report of four cases and review of the literature. The authors report the underestimated cognitive, mood, and behavioral complications in patients who have undergone bilateral contemporaneous pallidotomy, as seen in their early experience with functional neurosurgery for Parkinson's disease (PD) that is accompanied by severe motor fluctuations before pallidal stimulation. Four patients, not suffering from dementia, with advanced (Hoehn and Yahr Stages III-IV), medically untreatable PD featuring severe \"on-off\" fluctuations underwent bilateral contemporaneous posteroventral pallidotomy (PVP). All patients were evaluated according to the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations (CAPIT) protocol without positron emission tomography scans but with additional neuropsychological cognitive, mood, and behavior testing. For the first 3 to 6 months postoperatively, all patients showed a mean improvement of motor scores on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), in the best \"on\" (21%) and worst \"off\" (40%) UPDRS III motor subscale, a mean 30% improvement in the UPDRS II activities of daily living (ADL) subscore, and 60% on the UPDRS IV complications of treatment subscale. Dyskinesia disappeared almost completely, and the mean daily duration of the off time was reduced by an average of 60%. Despite these good results in the CAPIT scores, one patient experienced a partially regressive corticobulbar syndrome with dysphagia, dysarthria, and increased drooling. No emotional lability was found in this patient, but he did demonstrate severe bilateral postoperative pretarsal blepharospasm (apraxia of eyelid opening), which interfered with walking and which required treatment with high-dose subcutaneous injections of botulinum toxin. No patient showed visual field defects or hemiparesis, but postoperative depression, changes in personality, behavior, and executive functions were seen in two individuals. Postoperative abulia was reported by the family of one patient, who lost his preoperative aggressiveness and drive in terms of ADL, speech, business, family life, and hobbies, and became more sleepy and fatigued. One patient reported postoperative mental automatisms, such as compulsive mental counting, and circular thoughts and reasoning during off phases; postoperative depression was found in two patients. However, none of the patients demonstrated these symptoms during intraoperative microelectrode stimulation. These findings are compatible with previous reports on bilateral pallidal lesions. A progressive lowering of UPDRS subscores was seen after 12 months, consistent with the progression of the disease. Bilateral simultaneous pallidotomy may be followed by emotional, behavioral, and cognitive deficits such as depression, obsessive-compulsive disorders, and loss of psychic autoactivation-abulia, as well as disabling corticobulbar dysfunction and apraxia of eyelid opening, in addition to previously described motor and visual field deficits, which make this surgery undesirable even though significant improvement in motor deficits can be achieved."}
{"id": "10430835", "title": "Neocortical and hippocampal glucose hypometabolism following neurotoxic lesions of the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices in the non-human primate as shown by PET. Implications for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neocortical and hippocampal glucose hypometabolism following neurotoxic lesions of the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices in the non-human primate as shown by PET. Implications for Alzheimer's disease. Temporoparietal glucose hypometabolism, neuronal loss in the basal forebrain cholinergic structures and preferential accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles in the rhinal cortex (i.e. in the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices) are three early characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. Based on studies of the effects of neurotoxic lesions in baboons, we previously concluded that damage to the cholinergic structures plays, at best, a marginal role in the association neocortex hypometabolism of Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we have assessed the remote metabolic effects of bilateral neurotoxic lesions of both entorhinal and perirhinal cortices. Using coronal PET coregistered with MRI, the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMR(glc)) was measured before surgery and sequentially for 2-3 months afterward (around days 30, 45 and 80). Compared with sham-operated baboons, the lesioned animals showed a significant and long-lasting CMR(glc) decline in a small set of brain regions, especially in the inferior parietal, posterior temporal, posterior cingulate and associative occipital cortices, as well as in the posterior hippocampal region, all of which also exhibit glucose hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Remarkably, the degree of CMR(glc) decline in four of these regions significantly correlated with the severity of histologically determined damage in the rhinal cortex, strongly supporting the specificity of the observed metabolic effects. There were also differences between the metabolic pattern observed in the lesioned animals and that classically reported in Alzheimer's disease; for instance, the hypometabolism we found in the stratum has not been reported in early Alzheimer's disease, although this structure can be affected in late stages of the disease and has direct anatomical connections with the rhinal cortex. Nevertheless, this study shows for the first time that the temporoparietal and hippocampal hypometabolism found in Alzheimer's disease may partly result from neuroanatomical disconnection with the rhinal cortex. This, in turn, further strengthens the hypothesis that neuronal damage and dysfunction in the rhinal cortices play a major role in the expression of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "10424684", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in unilateral entorhinal cortex-lesioned rats: an animal PET study.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in unilateral entorhinal cortex-lesioned rats: an animal PET study. To evaluate the effect of entorhinal cortical lesion on cerebral cortical function, we studied cerebral glucose utilization (CMRGlc) using a high resolution PET scanner after quinolinic acid lesion of the unilateral entorhinal cortex in rats. [18F]Fluorodeoxyglucose PET was performed at 4 days and 4 weeks after surgery, and CMRGlc in the bilateral frontal, parietal and temporal regions were analyzed. At 4 days, the entorhinal lesion induced a 12-15% decrease in CMRGlc of frontal, parietal and temporal regions ipsilateral to the lesion. The hypometabolism continued at 4 weeks in the temporal region. These findings suggest that entorhinal lesion induces cerebral cortical hypometabolism, which implies a pathogenetic role of entorhinal area on the cortical hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "10417247", "title": "Comparison of impaired subcortico-frontal metabolic networks in normal aging, subcortico-frontal dementia, and cortical frontal dementia.", "content": "Comparison of impaired subcortico-frontal metabolic networks in normal aging, subcortico-frontal dementia, and cortical frontal dementia. Normal aging, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are characterized by different degrees of decline in frontal lobe functions. We used (18)FDG-PET and statistical parametric mapping (SPM96) to compare relative subcorticofrontal metabolic impairment at rest in 21 healthy elderly subjects (HES), 20 PSP patients, and 6 FTD patients. When HES were compared to 22 healthy young subjects, widespread decrease in metabolism was observed in bilateral medial prefrontal areas including anterior cingulate cortices, in dorsolateral prefrontal areas, in left lateral premotor area, in Broca's area, and in left insula. In PSP compared to the 43 healthy subjects (HS), we observed subcorticofrontal metabolic impairment including both motor and cognitive neural networks. Impairment of functional connections between midbrain tegmentum and cerebellar, temporal and pallidal regions was demonstrated in PSP as compared to HS. When comparing FTD to HS, glucose uptake was primarily reduced in dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices and in frontopolar and anterior cingulate regions. There was also bilateral anterior temporal, right inferior parietal, and bilateral striatal hypometabolism. Finally, FTD showed more severe striatofrontal metabolic impairment than PSP, while mesencephalothalamic involvement was only observed in PSP. Our data suggest that subcorticofrontal metabolic impairment is distributed in distinct subcorticocortical networks in normal aging, PSP, and FTD. Subcorticofrontal dementia in PSP is related to hypometabolism in discrete frontal areas, which are probably disconnected from certain subcortical structures. The concept of subcortical dementia is reinforced by our data, which show disrupted functional connections between mesencephalon and cerebellar cortex, inferior and medial temporal regions, and pallidum."}
{"id": "10404982", "title": "Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function.", "content": "Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function. The mechanism of dementia in subcortical cerebral infarction is incompletely understood. To determine how cognitive function is related to cortical metabolism in patients with subcortical infarction and a continuum of cognitive impairment. We used positron emission tomography (PET) and the glucose metabolic tracer fludeoxyglucose F 18 to study 8 patients with subcortical stroke and normal cognitive function (S-CN), 5 patients with subcortical stroke and cognitive impairment (S-CI) who did not have dementia, 8 patients with subcortical stroke and dementia (S-D), and 11 controls with no cognitive impairment or stroke. A subset of patients had absolute regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) determined, while in all subjects regional tracer uptake normalized to whole brain tracer uptake was calculated. PET data were analyzed by constructing volumes of interest using coregistered magnetic resonance imaging data and correcting the PET data for atrophy. Global CMRglc was significantly lower in the patients with S-D than in the control and S-CN groups, with S-CI rates intermediate to those of the S-D and S-CN groups. Absolute regional CMRs of glucose were similar in the S-D and S-CI groups and in the control and S-CN groups. The regional pattern, however, showed lower right frontal regional CMRglc ratios in all stroke groups compared with the controls. There were modest correlations between performance on the Mini-Mental State Examination and whole brain CMRglc when all 4 groups were included. These results demonstrate that subcortical infarction produces global cerebral hypometabolism, which is related to the clinical status of the patients. In addition, specific frontal lobe hypometabolism also appears to be a feature of subcortical infarction. Taken together, both global and regional effects on cortical function mediate the production of clinical symptoms in patients with subcortical strokes."}
{"id": "10386531", "title": "Idiopathic rolandic epilepsy with \"interictal\" facial myoclonia and oromotor deficit: a longitudinal EEG and PET study.", "content": "Idiopathic rolandic epilepsy with \"interictal\" facial myoclonia and oromotor deficit: a longitudinal EEG and PET study. The prognosis of benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) is always favorable as far as the epilepsy is concerned. However, some data suggest that affected children may be at risk for minor cognitive impairment. We report here the longitudinal study of a young girl demonstrating that BECTS also may be associated with severe motor disturbances. BECTS (rare left oromotor seizures, right rolandic spike-waves activated during sleep) started at the age of 3 years 6 months in a girl with normal initial psychomotor development. Her clinical, neuropsychological, and EEG status was assessed every 3-6 months. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was measured by using the [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) method. Between the age of 5 and 6 years, the girl had (a) increased seizure frequency; (b) brief perioral and palpebral myoclonic jerks, concomitant with the spike component of interictal spike-waves, and (c) persistent but fluctuating oromotor deficits (drooling, dysarthria, dysphagia). The EEG showed a marked increase in abundance and amplitude of wake and sleep interictal abnormalities, which became bilateral. Awake FDG-PET revealed a bilateral increase of glucose metabolism in opercular regions. A complete and definitive EEG and clinical remission occurred at age 5 years 11 months and has persisted since (present age, 7 years 9 months). This case confirms that during BECTS, epileptiform dysfunctions within rolandic areas may induce \"interictal\" positive or negative oromotor symptoms, independent of classic seizures."}
{"id": "10378729", "title": "EEG power changes are related to regional cerebral glucose metabolism in vascular dementia.", "content": "EEG power changes are related to regional cerebral glucose metabolism in vascular dementia. In patients with vascular dementia (VD), the relationship between the EEG power within the 4 frequency bands and the regional metabolic disturbances was investigated. Twenty-eight patients (age 69.0+/-6.54 years) with VD according to NINDS-AIREN criteria underwent quantitative EEG recording, according to the 10-20 system, and fluodeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography (PET) at resting condition within 24 h. EEG power FFT-analysis was performed for delta (2-3.5 Hz), theta (4-7.5 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz) and beta (13.5-20 Hz) frequency bands. Regional EEG power bands were related to regional glucose metabolism in anatomically defined regions corresponding to locations of the 10-20 system. Correlation between slow frequency band power and glucose metabolism was found. A widespread inverse relationship of delta power to metabolism was found between various regions; additionally, delta power was negatively correlated to cerebral glucose metabolism in individual regions. Frontal theta power correlated especially with thalamic CMRglc. Alpha power correlated directly with metabolism in the occipital lobe. No significant relationships were found between beta power and metabolism. We conclude that EEG power in VD is linked to glucose metabolism, indicating specific regional dependencies."}
{"id": "10377793", "title": "[Functional imaging for disorders of basal ganglia].", "content": "[Functional imaging for disorders of basal ganglia]. The nigrostriatal dopaminergic function and regional glucose metabolism were evaluated in patients suffering from various disorders of basal ganglia by using positron emission tomography with 18F-dopa and 18F-FDG, respectively. The 18F-dopa uptake in the striatum (the caudate head and the putamen) decreased in patients with Parkinson's disease but was relatively unaffected in the caudate. The cerebral glucose metabolism was normal in patients with Parkinson's disease. The 18F-dopa uptake in the striatum also decreased in cases of multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy, but there was no difference in the uptake between the caudate and the putamen. The glucose metabolism decreased in the cerebral cortices and the striatum: this finding was also different from those of Parkinson's disease. A normal 18F-dopa uptake with a markedly decreased striatal glucose metabolism was observed in cases of Huntington's disease. The 18F-dopa uptake increased and the glucose metabolism was normal in cases of idiopathic dystonia. Various patterns of 18F-dopa uptake and glucose metabolism were thus observed in the various disorders of basal ganglia. These results suggest that the measurements of the 18F-dopa uptake and glucose metabolism would be useful for evaluating the function of the basal ganglia in various disorders of basal ganglia."}
{"id": "10371072", "title": "Parieto-occipital glucose hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease with autonomic failure.", "content": "Parieto-occipital glucose hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease with autonomic failure. To investigate the characteristics of regional cerebral metabolism in a subgroup of patients with Parkinson's disease and autonomic failure, we studied seven patients with Parkinson's disease with autonomic failure (PA group), 11 patients with Parkinson's disease without apparent autonomic failure (PD group), and nine normal controls using fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). To determine differences in metabolic distribution among these groups, regional relative glucose metabolic rates (RGMR), which were normalized with cerebellar values, were calculated and age-adjusted covariance analyses were done. When compared with that of controls. RGMR in the cerebral cortex of the PA group was markedly reduced in the occipital cortex (P<0.001), inferior parietal cortex (P<0.005) and superior parietal cortex (P<0.005), but without a decrease in the sensory motor and medial temporal cortices, putamen and thalamus. In contrast, the PD group did not show significant focal hypometabolic distribution. Our findings raise the possibility that Parkinson's disease with autonomic failure may overlap with the features of dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "10362910", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia: a case report.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia: a case report. We report a 69-year-old male patient whose motor aphasia started at the age of 61. The language disability remained isolated and progressed over a period of eight years without any additional cognitive deficits. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed moderate cortical atrophy with frontal dominance. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) showed hypoperfusion in the frontotemporoparietal region, positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrated a global cortical reduction of glucose utilization with a lesser decrement in the occipital lobes. The clinical symptoms and the neuropsychological findings fit the diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia."}
{"id": "10347729", "title": "[Brain aging. The problem of differential diagnosis between normal and pathologic].", "content": "[Brain aging. The problem of differential diagnosis between normal and pathologic]. The author reports three cases of pseudodementia and discuss the difficulties in establishing limits between normality and illness in the elderly. The mental and neuropathological changes that accompany the normal ageing of the brain are similar to those of early Alzheimer's dementia (AD). These similarities often lead to difficulties in the differential diagnosis, hence the search for consensus criteria. The decline of working and secondary memory is greater than that of primary and tertiary memory, as is found in AD. On the other hand, tests of delayed recall of 10 to 15 unrelated words, logical memory, categorical thinking, visuo-motor-spatial skills, and Boston Naming Test have been pointed out as the most discriminative. Neuroimaging findings of atrophy or hypoperfusion in the entorhinal-hippocampal or temporo-parietal regions are suggestive of DA, but they can be lacking in the early stages of this disease. In the conclusion, the author suggests the diagnostic process should be based on a comprehensive neuropsychological and behavioral evaluation (including a survey of the subject's premorbid level of cognitive and socio-occupational functioning), supplemented by neuroimaging and laboratory tests. If inconclusive, the whole evaluation can be repeated after 4 to 6 months, to check the consistency of the findings."}
{"id": "10320212", "title": "Multimodal imaging of residual function and compensatory resource allocation in cortical atrophy: a case study of parietal lobe function in a patient with Huntington's disease.", "content": "Multimodal imaging of residual function and compensatory resource allocation in cortical atrophy: a case study of parietal lobe function in a patient with Huntington's disease. In a case of Huntington's disease (HD) with dementia and pronounced parieto-frontal atrophy, the functional state of the affected regions was investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). It was observed that although parietal areas showed extensive atrophy and reduced resting glucose metabolism, the patient performed with similar accuracy but with longer response time in a visuospatial task compared with healthy control subjects. At the same time, the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI signal in these areas, which are involved in visuospatial processing, showed a similar task-dependent modulation as in control subjects. The signal amplitude (signal percent change) of the task-dependent activation was even higher for the HD patient than in the control group. This residual functionality of parietal areas involved in visuospatial processing could account for the patient's performance in the task concerned, which contrasted with his poor performance in other cognitive tasks. The increased percent-signal change suggests that a higher neuronal effort was necessary to reach a similar degree of accuracy as in control subjects, fitting well with the longer reaction time. We propose that fMRI should be considered as a tool for the assessment of functionality of morphologically abnormal cortex and for the investigation of compensatory resource allocation in neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "10210919", "title": "Hereditary sensory neuropathy with deafness and dementia: a clinical and neuroimaging study.", "content": "Hereditary sensory neuropathy with deafness and dementia: a clinical and neuroimaging study. We describe three sibling patients with autosomal dominantly inherited sensory neuropathy, sensorineural hearing loss and dementia. The features of cognitive-behavioral deficits in the patients, including executive dysfunction, apathy, indifference and inattention, were consistent with a frontal lobe dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a diffuse brain atrophy. A fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in one patient and a single photon emission computed tomography in another demonstrated a glucose hypometabolism or a hypoperfusion in the medial frontal and thalamic regions. Primary frontal involvement or frontal dysfunction secondary to thalamic lesions may contribute to the nature of dementia in these patients."}
{"id": "10207924", "title": "Presurgical evaluation and surgical outcome of temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Presurgical evaluation and surgical outcome of temporal lobe epilepsy. The authors analyzed 22 patients younger than 18 years of age with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) treated surgically. Patients underwent a comprehensive presurgical evaluation, including video-electroencephalogram. Fifty-five percent had a history of febrile seizures. Eighty-two percent had auraes and most exhibited oroalimentary and gestural automatisms. Contralateral dystonic posturing was present in 36% and postictal dysphasia in 54% of patients with left-sided resections. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was abnormal in 59% of patients. MRI revealed changes consistent with mesial temporal sclerosis in 8 (47%) of 17 patients without lesions. Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (PET) scans revealed ipsilateral temporal hypometabolism (PET-TH) in 12 (85.7%) of 14 patients. The intracarotid amobarbital procedure revealed impaired memory of the epileptogenic side in 59% of patients. Seventeen patients underwent en-bloc resections and five lesionectomies and resection of the epileptogenic area. There was no surgical morbidity or mortality. Forty-three percent had hippocampal sclerosis, 28.5% gliosis, 14% low-grade tumors, 9.5% cavernous angiomas, and 5% had no pathologic findings. Follow-up (6 months to 12 years) was available for 21 patients; 76% became seizure free, 19% had rare seizures, and 5% had a worthwhile improvement. TLE can be safely treated surgically in younger patients with excellent results. The clinical manifestations were similar to adult patients. PET-TH was present even at a younger age, suggesting that the focal functional deficits appear early in patients with medically refractory TLE, which may help in the early identification of these patients."}
{"id": "10203099", "title": "Role of positron emission tomography in determining the extent of CNS ischemia in patients with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Role of positron emission tomography in determining the extent of CNS ischemia in patients with sickle cell disease. Nearly 25% of patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) experience central nervous system morbidity involving both large and small vessel disease. Optimal imaging methods for determining the extent of ischemia are not known. Positron emission tomography (PET) has the unique ability to show tissue function as well as structure. Reports concerning patients with non-SCD neurodegenerative disorders suggest PET may be useful in determining prognosis. We compared magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, and neuropsychological testing with PET prospectively. Six patients with SCD and a history of stroke, aged 10 to 28, were enrolled. PET studies were performed on an ECAT HR 47 scanner (Siemens/CTI, Knoxville, TN) using 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose as a tracer. PET interpretations were conducted in blinded fashion. MRI studies found two patients with only small vessel disease and four with both large and small vessel disease. In two of four subjects with large vessel disease, PET showed a corresponding metabolic abnormality and also identified an area of hypometabolism extending beyond the anatomical lesion as shown by MRI. PET did not demonstrate an abnormality corresponding with small vessel disease. Detailed neuropsychological testing demonstrated cognitive dysfunction in all cases. For some patients, PET may add sensitivity in detecting impaired metabolism in the area surrounding a major vessel infarct. However, the technique does not appear to be generally useful in characterizing small watershed or deep white matter infarcts. Larger studies, to include control subjects and carefully selected untransfused SCD patients, are needed. A combination of conventional imaging and neuropsychological testing remains the preferred evaluation for most SCD patients with neurologic symptoms."}
{"id": "10199337", "title": "Region-specific corpus callosum atrophy correlates with the regional pattern of cortical glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Region-specific corpus callosum atrophy correlates with the regional pattern of cortical glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease. Positron emission tomographic studies of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) suggest a loss of metabolic functional interactions between different cortical regions. Atrophy of the corpus callosum as the major tract of intracortical connective fibers may reflect decreased cortical functional integration in AD. To investigate whether regional atrophy of the corpus callosum is correlated with regional reductions of cortical glucose metabolism, as shown by positron emission tomography, and whether primary white matter degeneration is a possible cofactor of corpus callosum atrophy in AD. We measured total and regional cross-sectional areas of the corpus callosum on midsagittal magnetic resonance imaging scans from 12 patients with AD and 15 age-matched control subjects. Regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in cortical lobes were measured by positron emission tomography using fludeoxyglucose F 18. White matter hyperintensities were rated in T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scans. The total cross-sectional area of corpus callosum was significantly reduced in patients with AD, with the most prominent changes in the rostrum and splenium and relative sparing of the body of the corpus callosum. Frontal and parietal lobe metabolism was correlated with the truncal area of the corpus callosum in AD. The ratios of frontal to parietal and of frontal to occipital metabolism were correlated with the ratio of anterior to posterior corpus callosum area in the group with AD. White matter hyperintensities did not correlate with corpus callosum atrophy in the patients with AD. The regional pattern of corpus callosum atrophy correlated with reduced regional glucose metabolism independently of primary white matter degeneration in the patients with AD."}
{"id": "10189618", "title": "Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as a neuropsychiatric tool: present status and future potential.", "content": "Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as a neuropsychiatric tool: present status and future potential. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has emerged as a promising therapeutic intervention in the treatment of affective disorders. The differences in the type of electrical stimulation required for therapeutic efficacy by rTMS and electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) are discussed. In contrast to ECT, rTMS would not appear to require the generation of a major motor seizure to achieve therapeutic efficacy. Accordingly, it carries the potentially important clinical advantages of not requiring anesthesia and of avoiding side effects such as transient memory loss. Preclinical studies on long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in hippocampal and amygdala slices, as well as clinical data from neuroimaging studies, have provided encouraging clues for potential frequency-dependent effects of rTMS. Preliminary evidence from position emission tomography (PET) scans suggests that higher frequency (20 Hz) stimulation may increase brain glucose metabolism in a transsynaptic fashion, whereas lower frequency (1 Hz) stimulation may decrease it. Therefore, the ability of rTMS to control the frequency as well as the location of stimulation, in addition to its other advantages, has opened up new possibilities for clinical explorations and treatments of neuropsychiatric conditions."}
{"id": "10094234", "title": "Neuropsychological function and cerebral glucose utilization in isolated memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuropsychological function and cerebral glucose utilization in isolated memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease. We hypothesized that 20 patients with isolated memory impairment (IMI) would demonstrate [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose utilization and a progression of neuropsychological symptoms consistent with Alzheimer's disease (AD). IMI subjects performed similarly to AD in recall and verbal fluency, but comparable to normal subjects in other areas of cognitive functioning. A positron emission tomography (PET) diagnostic index based on parietal Z-scores categorized IMI patients into normal and abnormal metabolic patterns. Ten of the original 20 IMI patients (50%) reflected PET AD abnormalities. Clinical information was available for IMI patients at three-year follow-up. Ten (50%) had converted to AD, three were found to have pseudodementia and the seven remained IMI. Of the 10 IMI patients with an originally normal PET index, three (30%) were diagnosed with AD at three years. Of the 10 with an abnormal index originally, seven (70%) converted to AD. The finding that memory deficit in IMI was as pronounced as that in AD patients is consistent with the notion that memory is an initial symptom of AD. A substantial number of the IMI patients reflected regional hypometabolism similar to AD, suggesting that IMI is likely an early stage in progressive dementia. A large percentage of IMI patients converted clinically to AD within three years of initial study, though we observed impaired memory functioning well before a clinical diagnosis of AD could be made. In addition to potential clinical utility, IMI and PET represent an opportunity to study dementia in relation to brain chemistry at a time when brain pathology is in the process of development."}
{"id": "10080567", "title": "Association between brain functional failure and dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease: resting versus stimulation PET study.", "content": "Association between brain functional failure and dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease: resting versus stimulation PET study. This study tested the hypothesis that regional cerebral glucose metabolism during neuronal activation is a more sensitive index of neuronal dysfunction and clinical severity in Alzheimer's disease than is glucose metabolism at rest. The subjects were 15 Alzheimer's disease patients with a wide range of Mattis Dementia Rating Scale scores (23-128). By using positron emission tomography, absolute glucose metabolism was measured in the parietal, occipital (visual areas), and temporal (auditory areas) cortical regions during rest (eyes/ears covered) and audiovisual stimulation. In the parietal cortex, glucose metabolism correlated with dementia severity in both conditions. In contrast, in the relatively preserved visual and auditory cortical regions, glucose metabolism predicted dementia severity during stimulation but not at rest. These findings suggest that regional cerebral glucose metabolism during stimulation is a more sensitive index of the functional/metabolic failure of neuronal systems than is metabolism at rest."}
{"id": "10078879", "title": "Frequency-dependent changes in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen during activation of human visual cortex.", "content": "Frequency-dependent changes in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen during activation of human visual cortex. To test the hypothesis that brain oxidative metabolism is significantly increased upon adequate stimulation, we varied the presentation of a visual stimulus to determine the frequency at which the metabolic response would be at maximum. The authors measured regional CMR(O2) in 12 healthy normal volunteers with the ECAT EXACT HR+ (CTI/Siemens, Knoxville, TN, U.S.A.) three-dimensional whole-body positron emission tomograph (PET). In seven successive activating conditions, subjects viewed a yellow-blue annular checkerboard reversing its contrast at frequencies of 0, 1, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 50 Hz. Stimulation began 4 minutes before and continued throughout the 3-minute dynamic scan. In the baseline condition, the subjects began fixating a cross hair 30 seconds before the scan and continued to do so for the duration of the 3-minute scan. At the start of each scan, the subjects inhaled 20 mCi of (15)O-O2 in a single breath. The CMR(O2) value was calculated using a two-compartment, weighted integration method. Normalized PET images were averaged across subjects and coregistered with the subjects' magnetic resonance imaging in stereotaxic space. Mean subtracted image volumes (activation minus baseline) of CMR(O2) then were obtained and converted to z statistic volumes. The authors found a statistically significant focal change of CMR(O2) in the striate cortex (x = 9; y = -89; z = -1) that reached a maximum at 4 Hz and dropped off sharply at higher stimulus frequencies."}
{"id": "10078712", "title": "In vivo mapping of cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity in aging and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "In vivo mapping of cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity in aging and Alzheimer's disease. To validate an in vivo method for mapping acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in human brain, preparatory to monitoring inhibitor therapy in AD. AChE activity is decreased in postmortem AD brain. Lacking a reliable in vivo measure, little is known about central activity in early AD, when the disease is commonly targeted by AChE inhibitor drug therapy. Intravenous N-[11C]methylpiperidin-4-yl propionate ([11C]PMP) served as an in vivo AChE substrate. AChE activity was defined using cerebral PET for tracer kinetic estimates of the local rate of [11C]PMP hydrolysis in 26 normal controls and 14 patients with AD. Eleven AD patients also had concomitant in vivo cerebral measures of vesicular acetylcholine transporter (cholinergic terminal) density and glucose metabolism. Cerebral AChE activity measures 1) were independent of changes in tracer delivery to cerebral cortex; 2) agreed with reported postmortem data concerning normal relative cerebral distributions, absence of large age-effect in normal aging, and deficits in AD; 3) correlated in AD cerebral cortex with concomitant in vivo measures of cholinergic terminal deficits, but not with metabolic deficits; and 4) agreed quantitatively with predicted level of cerebral AChE inhibition induced by physostimine. This in vivo PET method provided valid measures of central AChE activity in normal subjects and AD patients. Applied in early AD, it should facilitate inhibitor treatment by confirming central inhibition, optimizing drug dosage, identifying likely responders, and testing surrogate markers of therapeutic response."}
{"id": "10066852", "title": "Neuropsychological impairment correlates with hypoperfusion and hypometabolism but not with severity of white matter lesions on MRI in patients with cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "Neuropsychological impairment correlates with hypoperfusion and hypometabolism but not with severity of white matter lesions on MRI in patients with cerebral microangiopathy. Cerebral microangiopathy, indicated on MRI by lacunar infarctions (LI) and deep white matter lesions (DWML), is said to lead to vascular dementia. Fifty-seven patients with proven cerebral microangiopathy were assessed for changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) and compared with 19 age-matched controls. The findings were correlated with results of extensive neuropsychological testing, as well as with MRI findings. A special head holder ensured reproducibility of positioning during rCBF (single-photon emission CT [SPECT]), rMRGlu (positron emission tomography [PET]), and MR imaging. White matter and cortex were quantified with regions of interest defined on MRI and superimposed to corresponding PET/SPECT slices. LI and DWML were graded by number and extent. Even with severe DWML and multiple LI, rCBF and rMRGlu values were not reduced. ANOVAs identified brain atrophy and neuropsychological deficits as the main determinants for reduced rCBF and rMRGlu values in both cortex and white matter. Neuropsychological deficits correlated well with decreased rCBF and rMRGlu, whereas MRI patterns such as LI and DWML did not. Factor analysis revealed no correlation of LI and DWML with rCBF, rMRGlu, atrophy, and neuropsychological deficits, showing instead positive correlations between rCBF, rMRGlu, and neuropsychological performance and negative correlations of the latter 3 with brain atrophy. From these data, we conclude that LI and DWML are epiphenomena that may morphologically characterize cerebral microangiopathy but do not in themselves indicate cognitive impairment. Dementia or neuropsychological deficits, by contrast, are reflected exclusively by functional imaging parameters (rCBF, rMRGlu) and cerebral atrophy."}
{"id": "10029564", "title": "Increased phosphoglycerate kinase in the brains of patients with Down's syndrome but not with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Increased phosphoglycerate kinase in the brains of patients with Down's syndrome but not with Alzheimer's disease. Impaired glucose metabolism in Down's syndrome (DS) has been well-documented in vivo, although information on the underlying biochemical defect is limited and no biochemical studies on glucose handling enzymes have been carried out in the brain. Through gene hunting in fetal DS brain we found an overexpressed sequence homologous to the phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) gene. This finding was studied further by investigating the activity levels of this key enzyme of carbohydrate metabolism in the brains of patients with DS. PGK activity was determined in five brain regions of nine patients with DS, nine patients with Alzheimer's disease and 14 controls. PGK activity was significantly elevated in the frontal, occipital and temporal lobe and in the cerebellum of patients with DS. PGK activity in corresponding brain regions of patients with Alzheimer's disease was comparable with controls. We conclude that our findings complement previously published data on impaired brain glucose metabolism in DS evaluated by positron emission tomography in clinical studies. Furthermore, we show that in DS, impaired glucose metabolism, represented by increased PGK activity, is a specific finding rather than a secondary phenomenon simply due to neurodegeneration or atrophy. These observations are also supported by data from subtractive hybridization, showing overexpressed PGK in DS brains at the transcriptional level early in life."}
{"id": "10025784", "title": "Motor correlates of occipital glucose hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia.", "content": "Motor correlates of occipital glucose hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia. To determine whether occipital reduction in regional cerebral glucose metabolism in PD reflects retinal versus nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration. We hypothesized that occipital glucose metabolic reduction should be symmetric if parkinsonian retinopathy is responsible for the reduction. PD patients without dementia (n = 29; age 63 +/- 10 years) and normal controls (n = 27; age 60 +/- 12 years) underwent [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging. Regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates were assessed quantitatively. When compared with normal controls, PD patients showed most severe glucose metabolic reduction in the primary visual cortex (mean -15%, p < 0.001). Occipital glucose metabolic reduction was greater in the hemisphere contralateral to the side of the body affected initially or more severely in PD. There was an inverse correlation between side-to-side asymmetries in finger-tapping performance and occipital glucose metabolic reduction (r = -0.45, p < 0.05; n = 28). The correlation was strongest in patients with a relatively early stage of PD with more unilateral motor impairment (Hoehn and Yahr stage I, r = -0.74, p < 0.01; n = 10). The results indicate a pathophysiologic association between nigrostriatal dysfunction and occipital glucose metabolic reduction in PD."}
{"id": "10025719", "title": "Increased glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase levels in the brain of patients with Down's syndrome.", "content": "Increased glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase levels in the brain of patients with Down's syndrome. Impaired glucose metabolism in Down's syndrome (DS) has been well-documented in vivo, although information on the underlying biochemical defect is limited and no biochemical studies on glucose handling enzymes have been carried out in the brain. In a previous study, we found by gene hunting in DS brain an overexpressed sequence homologous to the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD) gene. Here we studied G3PD activity and expression levels, using two-dimensional gel analysis, in five brain regions of patients with DS and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The protein expression levels in four brain areas were approximately 1.5-fold higher in patients with DS in comparison with the controls. G3PD activity was significantly elevated in the frontal, parietal, occipital and temporal lobe of DS as well, but not in the corresponding AD brain regions. We conclude that our biochemical findings complement previously published data of impaired brain glucose metabolism in DS evaluated by positron emission tomography in clinical studies."}
{"id": "9933347", "title": "Human cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity measured with positron emission tomography: procedure, normal values and effect of age.", "content": "Human cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity measured with positron emission tomography: procedure, normal values and effect of age. The regional cerebral metabolic rate of [11C]N-methyl-4-piperidyl acetate, which is nearly proportional to regional cerebral acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, was measured by dynamic positron emission tomography in 20 healthy subjects with a wide age range (24-89 years). Quantitative measurement was achieved using a kinetic model which consisted of arterial plasma and cerebral tissue compartments. The plasma input function was obtained using thin-layer chromatography and an imaging phosphor plate system at frequent sampling intervals to catch the rapid metabolism of the tracer in the blood. The distribution of the rate constant k3, an index of AChE activity, agreed well with reported post-mortem AChE distribution in the cerebral cortex (0.067-0.097 min-1) and thalamus (0.268 min-1), where AChE activity was low to moderate. The k3 values in the striatum and cerebellum, where AChE activity was very high, did not respond linearly to AChE activity because of increased flow dependency. No significant effect of age was found on AChE activity of the cerebral cortex, suggesting that the ascending central cholinergic system is preserved in normal aging. This study has shown that quantitative measurement of enzyme activity in the living brain is possible through appropriate modelling of tracer kinetics and accurate measurement of the input function. The method should be applicable to patients with Alzheimer's disease and those with other kinds of dementia whose central cholinergic system has been reported to be disturbed."}
{"id": "10785837", "title": "Imaging of nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson syndromes.", "content": "Imaging of nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson syndromes. Neuroimaging modalities in Parkinson's Disease (PD) are primarily used for the differential diagnosis of Parkinson syndromes and to understand pathophysiological mechanisms in PD. Neuroimaging of nonmotor dysfunctions in PD mostly consist of functional studies in neuropsychologically impaired PD patients using PET or SPECT techniques. Various studies controversially discuss the probable frontal versus temporal hypometabolism in demented PD patients. Functional studies of PD patients with depression are limited to case reports showing an involvement of left frontal regions. To investigate the pathophysiology of hallucinations with functional imaging may be a promising field of future research."}
{"id": "9876966", "title": "Lack of association of apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele dose with cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Lack of association of apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele dose with cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease. Parietal cerebral glucose metabolism is reduced before substantial impairments appeared in subjects carrying the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele, but the effect of the APOE epsilon4 allele on cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer disease (AD) is still undetermined. To investigate the effect of the APOE epsilon4 allele on cerebral metabolism in AD, we examined regional cerebral glucose metabolism in 83 patients with AD by using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. Cerebral glucose metabolism in the fronto-parieto-temporal association and limbic cortices was significantly decreased in the AD patients compared with 26 age- and sex-matched normal controls. Regional cerebral glucose metabolic rate was not correlated significantly with the number of APOE epsilon4 alleles in any region, which was consistent even after controlling the effects of age, sex, and severity of dementia, and in a subgroup analysis of those aged between 60 and 75. These results supported the view that the APOE epsilon4 allele is not associated with specific deficits in brain metabolism in AD despite evidence of preclinical alterations."}
{"id": "9870415", "title": "Multimodal imaging of residual function and compensatory resource allocation in cortical atrophy: a case study of parietal lobe function in a patient with Huntington's disease.", "content": "Multimodal imaging of residual function and compensatory resource allocation in cortical atrophy: a case study of parietal lobe function in a patient with Huntington's disease. In a case of Huntington's disease (HD) with dementia and pronounced parieto-frontal atrophy, the functional state of the affected regions was investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). It was observed that although parietal areas showed extensive atrophy and reduced resting glucose metabolism, the patient performed with similar accuracy but with longer response time in a visuospatial task compared with healthy control subjects. At the same time, the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI signal in these areas, which are involved in visuospatial processing, showed a similar task-dependent modulation as in control subjects. The signal amplitude (signal percent change) of the task-dependent activation was even higher for the HD patient than in the control group. This residual functionality of parietal areas involved in visuospatial processing could account for the patient's performance in the task concerned, which contrasted with his poor performance in other cognitive tasks. The increased percent-signal change suggests that a higher neuronal effort was necessary to reach a similar degree of accuracy as in control subjects, fitting well with the longer reaction time. We propose that fMRI should be considered as a tool for the assessment of functionality of morphologically abnormal cortex and for the investigation of compensatory resource allocation in neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "9869321", "title": "Normal and pathological aging--findings of positron-emission-tomography.", "content": "Normal and pathological aging--findings of positron-emission-tomography. Normal aging of the brain is predominantly characterized by metabolic changes in the prefrontal cortex. While in middle age there is a trend to hyperfrontality, PET demonstrates in old age a decline of regional cerebral glucose metabolism in frontal areas. In progeric diseases, clinically apparent as premature aging, the metabolic pattern is similar like in normal aging but qualitatively more severe. In patients with the diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) hypometabolism in early dementia is typically present in heteromodal association areas. Hypometabolism then spreads to other cortical and subcortical regions suggesting a characteristic pattern of degeneration that reflects selective vulnerability within limbic-cortical networks. Synaptic plasticity, clinically apparent as cognitive reserve capacity, can be assessed by PET under specific cognitive activation. In AD it is reduced in comparison to age-matched normals and may be influenced by drugs giving trophic support to neurochemical systems."}
{"id": "9866823", "title": "Advances in the understanding of early Huntington's disease using the functional imaging techniques of PET and SPET.", "content": "Advances in the understanding of early Huntington's disease using the functional imaging techniques of PET and SPET. The functional imaging techniques of positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPET) have been used to study regional brain function in Huntington's disease (HD) in vivo. Reduced striatal glucose metabolism and dopamine receptor binding are evident in all symptomatic HD patients and in approximately 50% of asymptomatic adult mutation carriers. These characteristics correlate with clinical measures of disease severity. Reduced cortical glucose metabolism and dopamine receptor binding, together with reduced striatal and cortical opioid receptor binding, have also been demonstrated in symptomatic patients with HD. Repeat PET measures of striatal function have been used to monitor the progression of this disease objectively. In the future, functional imaging will provide a valuable way of assessing the efficacy of both fetal striatal cell implants and putative neuroprotective agents, such as nerve growth factors."}
{"id": "9859121", "title": "[Copying and free drawing by patients with Alzheimer disease of different dementia stages].", "content": "[Copying and free drawing by patients with Alzheimer disease of different dementia stages]. In this study we assessed the drawing abilities in 37 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Drawing abilities (drawing: house, flower, clock; Rey-Osterrieth figure; copying: MMST-figure; Rey-Osterrieth figure) were quantified with different rating schemes and related to other neuropsychological assessments. All patients underwent a positron emission tomography with 18-FDG. Drawing performance was highly correlated with severity of dementia--expressed in MMST scores (r = 0.78; p < 0.0001)--with visuo-spatial short-term memory (r = -0.69; p = 0.001), and writing abilities (r = -0.77; p < 0.0001). The summarized drawing score showed a statistically significant correlation with the rate of temporoparietal glucose metabolism measured with positron emission tomography and 18-FDG (r = 0.39; p = 0.017). In the drawings of AD patients omittings and simplifications were typical, whereas perseverations rarely occurred. In severely demented patients closing-in phenomenons could be described, too. A subgroup of AD patients with visuo-constructive impairment as the leading symptom could not be identified."}
{"id": "9855541", "title": "Hereditary spastic paraplegia with a thin corpus callosum and thalamic involvement in Japan.", "content": "Hereditary spastic paraplegia with a thin corpus callosum and thalamic involvement in Japan. The authors examined two Japanese siblings with a recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) with dementia and a thin corpus callosum. Both showed thalamic glucose hypometabolism on PET. Recessive HSP with a thin corpus callosum is a rare disorder, with less than 20 reported patients, that may be a Japanese subtype of HSP."}
{"id": "9854970", "title": "Regional metabolism: associations with dyscalculia in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional metabolism: associations with dyscalculia in Alzheimer's disease. The ability to calculate, which is an important aspect of social daily living, is commonly impaired in patients with Alzheimer's disease even early in the course of the disease. Dyscalculia is often accompanied by focal brain damage, and has been argued to be an independent sign localised around the left temporoparietal region. However, the region most responsible for dyscalculia in Alzheimer's disease has not been determined. The relation between calculation ability and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease was therefore examined. The calculation ability, In 91 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease of minimal to moderate severity, was assessed using the arithmetic subtest of the Wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised and the performance correlated with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by \"F-fluorodeoxyglucose and PET. Regional glucose metabolism in the left inferior parietal lobule and in the left inferior temporal gyrus was significantly correlated with the calculation performance irrespective of age, sex, education, and severity of disease. The results suggest that dysfunction of the left inferior parietal lobule and the left inferior temporal gyrus plays an important part in producing dyscalculia in patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9847667", "title": "[Long-term follow-up study with PET in a case of superficial siderosis].", "content": "[Long-term follow-up study with PET in a case of superficial siderosis]. Long-term follow-up study with positron emission tomography (PET) has been conducted in a patient with superficial siderosis for ten years. A 63-year-old right-handed woman began to exhibit a cerebellar ataxia when she was 52 years old. Thereafter she has been exhibiting a slowly progressive course of pyramidal signs, hearing loss, anosmia, bilateral sciatica and memory disturbance in addition to the cerebellar ataxia. Series of x-ray CT and MRI disclosed a progressive atrophy of the cerebellum, specifically in the superior vermis, and a mild diffuse atrophy in the cerebral hemispheres, whereas no significant atrophy was seen in the brainstem. A marked hypointensity was seen along the rim of the brain structures including brainstem, cerebellum, sylvian fissures and the medial temporal lobes on MR T 2-weighted images. This hypointensity was also found at the edges of the third and fourth ventricles. These findings were regarded as haemosiderin deposit. By using oxygen-15, PET was carried out repeatedly with ten-year interval. In the initial PET study, both cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) were mildly decreased in the cerebellar hemispheres and the occipital cortices. The follow-up PET study revealed a progressive reduction of CMRO2 in the brainstem, cerebellar hemispheres and temporal cortices including the hippocampus in which the haemosiderin deposition was marked on MRI, whereas the reduction of CBF was not advanced as compared with CMRO2. It was suggested that the progressive reduction of CMRO2 in the brain sites where the haemosiderin deposition was observed on MRI reflected the clinical course of neurological deterioration."}
{"id": "9829574", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a dementia syndrome characterized by peculiar behavioral changes arising from frontotemporal involvement and distinct from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study was to elucidate the specific patterns in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with FTD and to compare them with the patterns in patients with AD and normal elderly subjects using fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET. Twenty-one patients with a clinical diagnosis of FTD [mean age 67.0 +/- 7.0 yr, Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score 18.7 +/- 5.7], 21 age-, sex- and dementia-severity-matched patients with probable AD (mean age 66.9 +/- 7.1 yr, MMSE score 20.2 +/- 5.5) and 21 age- and sex-matched normal control subjects (mean age 66.8 +/- 5.7 yr) were studied. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) was measured with FDG and PET. Absolute measures of regional CMRglc were compared among the three groups. One-way ANOVA and the posthoc Tukey HSD test were used for statistical analyses. In the FTD group, CMRglc was preserved only in the left cerebellum, right sensorimotor area and occipital lobes. The CMRglc was significantly lower in the FTD group as opposed to the AD group in the hippocampi, orbital gyri, anterior temporal lobes, anterior cingulate gyri, basal ganglia, thalami, middle and superior frontal gyri and left inferior frontal gyrus. Although metabolic abnormality in FTD is predominant in the frontal and anterior temporal lobes and the subcortical structures, it is more widespread than has been previously stressed. These findings document an FTD-specific cerebral involvement and facilitate differential diagnosis of degenerative dementias."}
{"id": "9813789", "title": "Alteration of regional cerebral glucose utilization with delusions in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Alteration of regional cerebral glucose utilization with delusions in Alzheimer's disease. The authors examined 65 patients with Alzheimer's disease for delusions and explored the relationship of delusions with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET. In patients with delusions (n = 26), normalized glucose metabolism was significantly increased in the left inferior temporal gyrus and significantly decreased in the left medial occipital region as compared with those without delusions (n = 39). The two groups were similar in age, sex, and dementia severity. These results suggest that delusions in Alzheimer's disease are attributable to a dysfunction in specific brain areas rather than a simple reaction to intellectual deficits."}
{"id": "9796365", "title": "Neurochemical imaging of Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative dementias.", "content": "Neurochemical imaging of Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative dementias. A wide variety of neurochemical and functional imaging approaches have been applied to the study of progressive dementias, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders. Despite considerable progress in the past decade, the cause(s) of most cases of AD remain undetermined and preventive or protective therapies are lacking. Specifically-designed imaging procedures have permitted the testing of pathophysiological hypotheses of the etiology and progression of AD, and have yielded important insights in several areas including the potential roles of cerebral cortical cholinergic lesions, cellular inflammation, and losses of cortical synapses. From the perspective of clinical diagnosis, PET glucose metabolism imaging with use of [18F]2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is the most sensitive and specific imaging modality yet identified. The overall performance of PET FDG is favorable for routine clinical evaluation of suspected AD, and will likely gain increasing utilization in the near future. Assessments of glucose metabolism and other, specific aspects of neurochemistry in AD will provide direct measures of therapeutic drug actions and may permit distinction of symptomatic versus disease-modifying therapies as they are developed and introduced in clinical trials."}
{"id": "9785148", "title": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and Apo E4 in medial temporal lobe dementias. Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging.", "content": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and Apo E4 in medial temporal lobe dementias. Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging. In a prospective study of more than 200 cases of dementia and 119 controls, annual technetium-99m-hexamethyl-propylene amineoxime (99mTC-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and annual medial temporal lobe (MTL) oriented X-ray computed tomography (CT) have been used to evaluate the diagnostic potential of functional and structural neuroimaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Some subjects have had up to 7 annual evaluations. So far, of 151 who have died, 143 (95%) have come to necropsy. Histology is known for 118, of whom 80 had Alzheimer's disease (AD), 24 had other \"non-AD\" dementias, and 14 controls with no cognitive deficit in life also had no significant central nervous system pathology. To compare the findings in the dementias with the profile of structural and functional imaging in the cognitively normal elderly, scan data from 105 living, elderly controls without cognitive deficit have also been included in the analysis. All clinical diagnoses were according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd ed., rev.; DSM-III-R) criteria, and all histopathological diagnoses according to the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) criteria. Early data from this cohort have suggested that the combination of both MTL atrophy seen on CT with parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT may predict the pathology of AD. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of the NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria could be assessed in this cohort against the gold standard of histopathology. The diagnostic potential of CT evidence of MTL atrophy alone, SPECT evidence of parietotemporal hypoperfusion alone, and the combination of both of these scan changes in the same individual could then be compared against the diagnostic accuracy of clinical operational criteria in the pathologically confirmed cases. Furthermore, all of these modalities could be compared with the diagnostic accuracy of apolipoprotein E4 (Apo E4) genotyping to predict AD in the histopathologically confirmed cohort. In this population, NINCDS \"probable-AD\" was 100% specific, 49% sensitive, and 66% accurate; \"possible-AD\" was only 61% specific, but 93% sensitive and 77% accurate; and the combination of both \"probable-AD\" and \"possible-AD\" was 61% specific, 96% sensitive, and 85% accurate. DSM-III-R criteria were 51% sensitive, 97% specific, and 66% accurate. In the same cases and including the 105 living, elderly controls, the diagnostic accuracy of the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging (OPTIMA) scanning criteria showed CT alone to be 85% sensitive, 78% specific, and 80% accurate; SPECT alone had 89% sensitivity, 80% specificity, and 83% accuracy; and the combination of the two was 80% sensitive, 93% specific, and 88% accurate. The Apo E4 genotype was 74% sensitive but yielded 40% false positives in the histologically confirmed series. The diagnostic accuracy afforded by this method of CT and SPECT used alone is better than that of any established clinical criteria and reveals that the combination of MTL atrophy and parietotemporal hypoperfusion is common in AD, much less common in other dementias, and rare in normal controls. In the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria \"possible-AD\" cases, the combination of CT and SPECT findings alone were better in all diagnostic indices than the presence of Apo E4 alone in predicting AD. The frequent occurrence of MTL atrophy in AD and also in other \"non-AD\" dementias later in the course of the disease suggests the concept of medial temporal lobe dementia. This could explain some of the overlap of clinical profiles in the dementias, particularly as the dementia progresses, making clinical differential diagnosis difficult. In this context, the use of SPECT can significantl"}
{"id": "9780089", "title": "Apolipoprotein E polymorphism influences the cerebral metabolic pattern in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E polymorphism influences the cerebral metabolic pattern in Alzheimer's disease. In 49 patients with the clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) apoE genotyping as well as regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGI) using positron emission tomography (PET) of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) were studied. The metabolic pattern was condensed to a ratio by dividing the rCMRGI of typically affected regions (temporo-parietal and frontal association cortex) by the rCMRGI of the least affected regions (primary cortical areas, basal ganglia, cerebellum and brainstem). Epsilon4-heterozygotes and epsilon4-homozygotes were grouped together, and also those lacking the epsilon4-allele (non-epsilon4). For the metabolic pattern we found a significant correlation to severity of dementia in both groups (epsilon4: r = 0.49, P = 0.05; non-epsilon4: r = 0.59, P = 0.006). On ANCOVA severity of dementia and epsilon4 status were independent predictors of the cerebral metabolic pattern (P = 0.01). These differences may be attributed to epsilon4 dependent histopathologic changes."}
{"id": "9772028", "title": "Long-term tacrine treatment in three mild Alzheimer patients: effects on nicotinic receptors, cerebral blood flow, glucose metabolism, EEG, and cognitive abilities.", "content": "Long-term tacrine treatment in three mild Alzheimer patients: effects on nicotinic receptors, cerebral blood flow, glucose metabolism, EEG, and cognitive abilities. The effect of long-term treatment with tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine) was studied in three Alzheimer patients (aged 57, 64, and 68 years) with mild dementia. All three patients had a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 24/30 and carried at least one apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele. Tacrine was given in doses between 80 and to 160 mg daily for 13-31 months. A lower tacrine concentration was observed generally in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compared with plasma. The acetylcholinesterase activity in CSF tended to be increased following longer periods of tacrine treatment, whereas the butyrylcholinesterase activity was decreased. The three patients repeatedly underwent positron emission tomography investigation of cerebral blood flow, nicotinic receptors, cerebral glucose metabolism, and electroencephalogram (EEG) and cognitive tests. Positive influences on these parameters were observed following both short-term and long-term treatment with tacrine. Improvement of nicotinic receptors (measured as 11C-nicotine binding), cerebral blood flow, EEG, and some cognitive tests (trail making test, block design test) occurred earlier after initiation of tacrine treatment compared with the glucose metabolism, which was increased after several months of tacrine treatment. An improvement in attention (trail making test) was observed following tacrine as sign for frontal lobe activation (EEG). The functional effects of tacrine in Alzheimer patients appeared to be related to both dose and length of cholinesterase inhibitor treatment."}
{"id": "9769444", "title": "Relatively preserved hippocampal glucose metabolism in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relatively preserved hippocampal glucose metabolism in mild Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study was to clarify the changes in hippocampal glucose metabolism in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET) and 2-(18F)fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Forty-one patients with probable mild AD (age: 69.0 +/- 8.0 years; MMSE: 22.6 +/- 2.1) and 22 normal volunteers (age: 67.7 +/- 7.1 years) were studied. The regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) was measured using FDG and PET. Although the mean CMRglc in the parietal region was significantly lower in the AD group (right: 6.35 +/- 1.26 mg/100 g/min; left: 6.37 +/- 1.21 mg/100 g/min) than in the control group (right: 7.73 +/- 1.02 mg/100 g/min; left: 7.63 +/- 0.95 mg/100 g/min), the mean CMRglc in the hippocampus did not show a significant difference between the AD group (right: 4.58 +/- 0.70 mg/100 g/min; left: 4.63 +/- 0.67 mg/100 g/min) and the control group (right: 5.22 +/- 0.65 mg/100 g/min; left: 5.22 +/- 0.67 mg/100 g/min) by analysis of variance and post-hoc Tukey's test. The magnitude of the hippocampal CMRglc reduction was not as large as that of parietal CMRglc reduction. Statistical parametric maps (SPM) analysis also did not significantly demonstrate reduced hippocampal CMRglc in AD patients, although it did show a significant reduction in parietal CMRglc in AD patients. Hippocampal CMRglc was not significantly decreased in mild AD. This was unexpected in view of previous studies that have shown atrophy and clinical dysfunction concerning hippocampus in AD, and suggests that the pathophysiology of the hippocampus in AD may be more complex than was previously thought."}
{"id": "9769027", "title": "Propentofylline in the treatment of vascular dementia and Alzheimer-type dementia: overview of phase I and phase II clinical trials.", "content": "Propentofylline in the treatment of vascular dementia and Alzheimer-type dementia: overview of phase I and phase II clinical trials. Pathophysiologic processes common to both vascular (multi-infarct) dementia and dementia of the Alzheimer type may include microglial activation with resultant generation of inflammatory cytokines and neurotoxic free radicals, decreased secretion of nerve growth factor by astrocytes, excess release of glutamate with associated neurotoxicity, and loss of cholinergic neurons. The functional benefits and neuroprotective effects of propentofylline (PPF) stem from its interference with these overlapping pathways of neurodegeneration. The clinical pharmacology and safety of PPF were studied in a number of phase I studies in healthy young and elderly adults and in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. These studies have shown that PPF 300 mg t.i.d. is safe and well tolerated when taken on an empty stomach 1 h before meals. In a randomized, double-blind phase II study involving 190 elderly subjects with clinically and psychometrically documented mild to moderate dementia, 12 weeks of PPF therapy produced significantly greater improvements than placebo in Gottfries-Br\u00e5ne-Steen (GBS) scores, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) ratings. A subsequent phase II study using positron emission tomography (PET) revealed that cortical glucose metabolism improved significantly in patients with vascular dementia after 12 weeks of PPF treatment but deteriorated significantly with placebo. A third phase II study, which enrolled patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, demonstrated that PPF significantly enhanced functional reserve, as reflected by increases in regional cerebral glucose metabolism after stimulation with a verbal memory task. In contrast, patients randomized to placebo exhibited a significant decline in functional activation and significant worsening in their MMSE scores over the course of this 12-week study. Propentofylline proved to be safe, well tolerated, and free of severe side effects in all three of these phase II trials. Phase I trial results suggest that significant food interactions occur with PPF, indicating that the drug should be taken on an empty stomach 1 h before meals. Phase II trial results indicate that PPF yields clinically measurable improvements in the symptoms of dementia and prevents loss of stimulation-related increases in glucose metabolism over a treatment period of 3 months. Whether these results indicate that PPF can slow the progression of dementia can be determined only by long-term trials specifically designed to determine the drug's effect on disease progression."}
{"id": "9749568", "title": "The natural history of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The natural history of Parkinson's disease. There are still insufficient data on the natural course of Parkinson's disease (PD) owing to lack of standardized longitudinal follow-up studies. Reported progression rates in early PD vary considerably by a factor of 2 to 3. Similarly, data from sequential [18F]dopa PET studies in PD patients have produced variable decline rates of PET indices ranging between 7 and 70% per decade. Risk factors for rapid progression include old age at onset, concomitant major depression, dementia, and akinetic-rigid symptom presentation. The introduction of levodopa into the routine treatment of PD patients had a dramatic impact on symptomatic control without affecting the underlying rate of disease progression. By contrast, monoamine oxidase (MAO) B inhibition by deprenyl monotherapy in early PD was shown to delay the need for levodopa by around 9 months. However, the neuroprotective action disappeared after 2 years of follow-up. Furthermore, deprenyl also failed to influence the subsequent development of levodopa-induced motor complications. Available studies on mortality in PD provide heterogeneous mortality rates, probably because of discrepancies between patient populations with respect to co-morbidity, disease stage at study entry, and diagnostic accuracy. However, the most recent follow-up from the DATATOP cohort suggests normal life expectancy in carefully selected patients without significant co-morbidity and with adequate treatment and expert follow-up."}
{"id": "9708558", "title": "Hippocampal volumes in cognitively normal persons at genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hippocampal volumes in cognitively normal persons at genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease. Brain imaging techniques have the potential to characterize neurobiological changes that precede the onset of cognitive impairment in persons at risk for Alzheimer's disease. As previously described, positron emission tomography (PET) was used to compare 11 cognitively normal persons 50 to 62 years of age who were homozygous for the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E and 22 persons without the epsilon4 allele with a reported family history of Alzheimer's dementia who were matched for sex, age, and level of education. The epsilon4 homozygotes had significantly reduced glucose metabolism in the same brain regions as patients with Alzheimer's dementia; the largest reduction was in the posterior cingulate cortex. As described here, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to compare hippocampal volumes in the same subject groups. The epsilon4 homozygotes showed nonsignificant trends for smaller left and right hippocampal volumes; overall, smaller hippocampal volumes were associated with reduced performance on a long-term memory test. Whereas PET measurements of cerebral glucose metabolism begin to decrease before the onset of memory decline, MRI measurements of hippocampal volume begin to decrease in conjunction with memory decline in cognitively normal persons at risk for Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9700661", "title": "Positron emission tomography for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. In mild or atypical cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD) the differential diagnosis to other dementing diseases, such as vascular dementia (VD), may pose a difficult problem. Beside computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional neuroimaging by positron emission tomography (PET) support the clinical diagnosis by visualizing cerebral function. PET of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) for measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGl) has shown a typical metabolic pattern in patients with probable AD: hypometabolism in temporoparietal and frontal association areas, but relative recessing of primary cortical areas, basal ganglia and cerebellum. In VD a different pattern is seen. It consists of scattered areas with reduction of rCMRGl typically extending over cortical and subcortical structures. Severity of dementia is correlated with rCMRGl reduction in the temporoparietal association cortex, irrespective of the cause of dementia. Also the total volume of hypometabolic regions is related to severity of dementia but did not differ between AD and VD, even in patients with small lacunar infarction. This indicates that the total volume of functional tissue loss is more important since it also includes the effects of incompletely infarcted tissue and morphologically intact but deafferented cortex. The characteristic metabolic pattern has a high diagnostic accuracy for the discrimination between probable AD, normals and VD, even in patients with mild cognitive impairment. Under clinical and therapeutic aspects the analysis of longitudinal changes of rCMRGl has shown that neuropsychological and metabolic changes are closely related in both, AD and VD."}
{"id": "9686785", "title": "Early-onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA) with retained reflexes: reduced cerebellar benzodiazepine-receptor binding, progressive metabolic and cognitive impairment.", "content": "Early-onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA) with retained reflexes: reduced cerebellar benzodiazepine-receptor binding, progressive metabolic and cognitive impairment. A family with two members who had early-onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA) with retained tendon reflexes had, in addition to their motor deficits, a progressive impairment of cognitive and visuospatial abilities. We used positron emission tomography (PET) with 11C-flumazenil to study gamma-aminobutyric type A/benzodiazepine receptor binding (BZR) and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose to analyze longitudinally regional cerebral glucose metabolism. Flumazenil-PET demonstrated loss of BZR binding that has not been shown in Friedreich's ataxia and olivopontocerebellar atrophy. These findings may be useful for differentiation of EOCA from other types of cerebellar ataxia. In comparison to age-matched control subjects, these patients showed a global metabolic decline and predominant hypometabolism in the thalamus and cerebellum. The progressive metabolic derangement may be explainable by a disturbed integrity of cognition-related networks resulting from secondary degeneration of cerebello-thalamo-cortical projections."}
{"id": "9682940", "title": "Latent cerebral artery stenoses on magnetic resonance angiography in a patient diagnosed as probable Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Latent cerebral artery stenoses on magnetic resonance angiography in a patient diagnosed as probable Alzheimer disease. A 65-year-old woman with hypertension developed slowly progressive memory disturbance and disorientation. She was diagnosed as having Alzheimer-type dementia according to clinical criteria. Later her cognitive deterioration was noted to fluctuate in parallel to her blood pressure. Magnetic resonance angiography and single photon emission computed tomography showed bilateral middle cerebral artery stenoses and middle cerebral artery watershed dominant hypoperfusion. It is postulated that the patient's cognitive disturbance may have originated from vascular lesions."}
{"id": "9674793", "title": "Clinicometabolic dissociation of cognitive functions and social behavior in frontal lobe lesions.", "content": "Clinicometabolic dissociation of cognitive functions and social behavior in frontal lobe lesions. Case studies suggest a dissociation between cognitive functions that have been impaired after damage to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and social skills disturbed when the ventromedial prefrontal areas are affected. Because this dissociation had not been confirmed in a clinical setting, clinicometabolic correlations were sought in 13 patients with various lesions of the prefrontal cortex. The clinical assessment included extensive testing of executive functions and evaluation of behavioral abnormalities based on an informant questionnaire. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) was measured with [l8F] fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F] FDG) and 31-slide high-resolution PET. Executive-function test performance was significantly correlated with rCMRGlu in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's areas 8, 9, 45, 46, and 47) and anterior cingulate cortex (Brodmann's areas 24 and 32). Behavioral scores were significantly correlated with rCMRGlu in the frontopolar (Brodmann's area 10) and orbitofrontal cortex (Brodmann's areas 11, 12, 13, and 14). These results show that impaired executive functions and serial skill deficits are associated with distinct metabolic patterns in patients with frontal lobe pathology. In agreement with activation studies in normal subjects, our data suggest the existence of a modular organization of the frontal cortex in humans, as previously reported in nonhuman primates."}
{"id": "9674792", "title": "Altered glucose metabolism in the hippocampal head in memory impairment.", "content": "Altered glucose metabolism in the hippocampal head in memory impairment. To evaluate the relevance of hypometabolism in the hippocampal head to the pathophysiology of memory impairment. Neurofunctional imaging studies with an image reslicing technique provided by using software suggest that dysfunction of the amygdalohippocampal system causes memory impairment. However, metabolic and morphologic profiles of the whole hippocampal formation have not been evaluated in detail. By tilting the gantry of a high-resolution PET scanner in a plane parallel to the hippocampal longitudinal axis determined beforehand by MRI, we performed quantitative measurement of glucose metabolism in the subdivisions of the hippocampal formation (head, body, tail) in 10 patients of normal intelligence with pure amnesia, in eight patients with AD, and in eight normal subjects. Although the volumes of the amygdala and hippocampal formation in pure amnesics were not different significantly from those of normal subjects, glucose metabolism in the head of the hippocampus was significantly lower in pure amnesics. In patients with AD, marked hypometabolism was found extending to the amygdala, the hippocampal head, and the parietotemporal cortex, along with amygdalohippocampal atrophy. Hippocampal head dysfunction plays an important role in memory impairment in amnesic patients. Further metabolic impairment over the amygdalohippocampal system and the surrounding association cortex reflects the pathophysiology of AD."}
{"id": "9674790", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease. To delineate the features of regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We compared absolute CMRglc in 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB, 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 12 normal volunteers (NC), using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET. The three groups were matched for age and sex, and there were no differences in disease duration or severity of cognitive disturbances between the DLB and AD groups. CMRglc was significantly lower in patients with DLB than in that of NC in most parts of the brain, except the sensorimotor cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus, and pons. Between the DLB and AD groups, there were significant regional CMRglc differences in the medial and lateral occipital lobes. In DLB and AD, the CMRglc reduction patterns were similar, though the global metabolic reduction was larger in DLB, and the occipital CMRglc reduction in DLB could differentiate DLB from AD. The relative occipital CMRglc (normalized to the sensorimotor CMRglc) was a useful measure for the differential diagnosis of DLB from AD. The sensitivity and the specificity were 92% when using the minimal value of the normalized occipital CMRglc in the NC group as the cut-off point. These different regional CMRglc reductions substantiate the pathologic, neurochemical, and clinical differences between DLB and AD."}
{"id": "9647302", "title": "Longitudinal SPECT study in Alzheimer's disease: relation to apolipoprotein E polymorphism.", "content": "Longitudinal SPECT study in Alzheimer's disease: relation to apolipoprotein E polymorphism. In mild Alzheimer's disease, SPECT imaging of regional cerebral blood flow has highlighted deficits in the posterior association cortex, and later in the disease process, the deficit spreads to involve the frontal cortex. The sigma4 allele of apolipoprotein E is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The effect of apolipoprotein E polymorphism on cerebral perfusion was studied. The hypothesis was that those patients with Alzheimer's disease who carry the sigma4 allele would have more severe cerebral hypoperfusion. Thirty one patients with Alzheimer's disease and eight age and sex matched control subjects were examined in a three year longitudinal study. Patients with Alzheimer's disease were divided into subgroups according to their number of sigma4 alleles. Regional cerebral blood flow ratios referred to the cerebellum were examined by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT. Apolipoprotein E genotypes were determined by digestion of polymerase chain reaction products with the restriction enzyme Hha1. All patients with Alzheimer's disease had bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion compared with control subjects. The two sigma4 allele subgroups had the lowest ratios at the baseline assessment in the parietal and occipital cortices, and at the follow up in the temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices. They had the highest reduction in percentage terms in the temporal and occipital cortices compared with the other subgroups. However, the global clinical severity did not differ at the baseline or follow up examinations between the subgroups. Apolipoprotein E polymorphism is involved in the pathogenesis and heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease as the most severe cerebral hypoperfusion was found in the sigma4 allele subgroups. This might have implications for therapeutic approaches in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9637279", "title": "Clinical significance of reduced cerebral metabolism in multiple sclerosis: a combined PET and MRI study.", "content": "Clinical significance of reduced cerebral metabolism in multiple sclerosis: a combined PET and MRI study. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) has provided major insights into the disease's natural history, and many studies have focussed on possible correlations between MRI findings and the clinical manifestations of MS. In contrast, there are few reports on possible relationships between functional imaging data and cognitive function. The present study assessed the relationship between clinical presentation and combined anatomical and functional imaging data in MS. Twenty patients with definite MS underwent MRI and positron emission tomography (PET) to evaluate cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and oxygen metabolism (rCMRO2). The relationships between these neuroimaging findings and clinical data, including the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), Mini-mental status scale, Hasegawa Dementia Scale and relapse time, were evaluated with Spearman's rank correlation coefficients. A general reduction in rCBF and rCMRO2 in the gray and white matter were found in the MS patients. EDSS was correlated with the number and size of the lesions on MRI and was negatively correlated with rCMRO2. A correlation between the decrease in rCMRO2 and the level of cognitive impairment was also found. The severity of cerebral hypometabolism was also related to the number of relapses. Morphological and functional findings obtained by MRI and PET are closely related to the clinical status in MS. Our results suggest that measurement of cerebral metabolism in MS has the potential to be an objective marker for monitoring disease activity and to provide prognostic information."}
{"id": "9633698", "title": "Regional glucose metabolic abnormalities are not the result of atrophy in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional glucose metabolic abnormalities are not the result of atrophy in Alzheimer's disease. To determine whether the hypometabolism observed in PET images of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is due entirely to brain atrophy. Reduced brain glucose metabolism in AD patients measured using PET has been reported by numerous authors. Actual glucose metabolic values in AD may be reduced artificially because of brain atrophy, which accentuates the partial volume effect (PVE) on data collected by PET. Using segmented MR images, we corrected regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose for PVEs to evaluate the effect of atrophy on uncorrected values for brain metabolism in AD patients and healthy control subjects. Global glucose metabolism was reduced significantly before and after correction in AD patients compared with controls. Before PVE correction, glucose metabolic values in patients were lower than in control subjects in the inferior parietal, frontal, and lateral temporal cortex; in the posterior cingulate; and in the precuneus. These reductions remained significantly lower after PVE correction, although in the posterior cingulate the difference in metabolism between AD patients and control subjects lessened. Regional glucose metabolism of these areas with PVE correction was lower in moderately-severely demented patients than in mildly demented patients. Reduced glucose metabolism measured by PET in AD is not simply an artifact due to an increase in CSF space induced by atrophy, but reflects a true metabolic reduction per gram of tissue."}
{"id": "9605717", "title": "Atrophy of the corpus callosum, cortical hypometabolism, and cognitive impairment in corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Atrophy of the corpus callosum, cortical hypometabolism, and cognitive impairment in corticobasal degeneration. To investigate whether atrophy of the corpus callosum is associated with cognitive impairment and cerebral cortical hypometabolism in corticobasal degeneration. Prospective clinicoradiological correlation with magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography. A university hospital. Eight right-handed patients with clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (mean+/-SD age, 64+/-8 years). Midsagittal corpus callosum area-skull area ratio (on T1-weighted magnetic resonance images), the sum of the scaled scores of the 6 subtests on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (Digit Span, Arithmetic, Picture Arrangement, Object Assembly, Block Design, and Digit Symbol), and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (measured with positron emission tomography by using fludeoxyglucose F 18 as a tracer). Compared with 36 age-matched right-handed control subjects, the patients had significantly decreased callosal area-skull area ratio. The reduction in this ratio was greatest in the middle half of the corpus callosum. The atrophy of the corpus callosum was accompanied by a decreased mean cortical glucose metabolic rate with hemispheric asymmetry and a decrease in the sum of the scaled subtest scores of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised. Atrophy of the corpus callosum with middle predominance is present in corticobasal degeneration, and this atrophy is associated with cognitive impairment and cerebral cortical hypometabolism with hemispheric asymmetry. Atrophy of the corpus callosum might reflect the severity of the disconnection between cortical regions, and this may be an important factor in the development of cerebral cortical dysfunction in corticobasal degeneration."}
{"id": "9597659", "title": "Effects of healthy aging on the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose assessed with statistical parametric mapping.", "content": "Effects of healthy aging on the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose assessed with statistical parametric mapping. The aging process is thought to result in changes in synaptic activity reflecting both functional and structural cell derangement. However, previous PET reports on age-related changes in resting brain glucose utilization (CMRglc) have been discrepant, presumably because of methodological as well as subject screening differences. In contrast to other studies, which used a region of interest approach, the objective of the present work was to determine, by means of the SPM software, the changes in regional CMRglc as a function of age in 24 optimally healthy, unmedicated volunteers of ages from 20 to 67 years. Global CMRglc showed a significant decline with age (approximately 6% per decade, P < 0.05), which concerned all the voxels studied save for most of the occipital cortex and part of the cerebellum. The most significant effects (P < 0.001) concerned the association neocortex in perisylvian temporoparietal and anterior temporal areas, the insula, the inferior and posterior-lateral frontal regions, the anterior cingulate cortex, the head of caudate nucleus, and the anterior thalamus, in a bilateral and essentially symmetrical fashion. The high posterior parietal cortex was not sampled in this study. This distribution of changes in CMRglc with age may differ from that seen in Alzheimer' disease, where the earliest metabolic reduction has been shown to affect the posterior cingulate cortex."}
{"id": "9591840", "title": "Effects of damage to the basal forebrain on brain glucose utilization: a reevaluation using positron emission tomography in baboons with extensive unilateral excitotoxic lesion.", "content": "Effects of damage to the basal forebrain on brain glucose utilization: a reevaluation using positron emission tomography in baboons with extensive unilateral excitotoxic lesion. Neuronal loss in the basal forebrain cholinergic structures and frontotemporal hypometabolism are two characteristics of Alzheimer's disease, but their interrelations still are unsettled. We previously reported that unilateral electrolytic lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert in baboons were associated with marked but transient cortical hypometabolism. The current study reevaluates this issue using improved methodology. Baboons with unilateral ibotenic acid lesion of all three basal forebrain cholinergic structures (IBO group) were compared with sham-operated animals. The CMRglc was measured with high-resolution coronal positron emission tomography scanning coregistered with magnetic resonance imaging, before surgery and serially between 4 and 72 days afterward. Severe histologic basal forebrain damage and a decrease of more than 50% in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity were found postmortem in the IBO group. Transient and nonspecific hypometabolism was found in the needle track area in both groups. Compared with the sham-operated group, only marginally significant decreases in ipsilateral-contralateral CMRglc ratios were observed in the IBO group, affecting only 1 of 14 neocortical areas investigated (the anterior temporal cortex) at a single postsurgical time (day 14), and the posterior hippocampal region at days 14 and 38. Furthermore, there was no consistently significant correlation between ipsilateral-contralateral CMRglc ratios and cortical choline acetyltransferase activity values in any of the four regions analyzed. These results suggest that cholinergic deafferentation play at best a marginal role in the brain hypometabolism observed in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9585919", "title": "Neurobiology of cocaine-induced organic brain impairment: contributions from functional neuroimaging.", "content": "Neurobiology of cocaine-induced organic brain impairment: contributions from functional neuroimaging. The present review is directed at imparting the current knowledge regarding functional neuroimaging as a tool for enhancing the understanding of cerebrophysiologic and neurobehavioral consequences of stimulant abuse. Stimulants like cocaine are capable of inducing clinically significant neurocognitive impairment through direct action on the brain, and indirectly through other organs that influence cerebral physiology. Neurochemical dysregulation including profound effects on the serotonergic and dopaminergic systems have substantial physiological and neurobehavioral consequences. Brain hemorrhages, transient ischemic attacks, strokes,and seizures frequently follow cocaine use. The residual cerebropathologic consequences of cocaine are seen only in significant or pronounced brain events when structural neuroimaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are employed. However, recent research with newer functional neuroimaging techniques such as single photon emission, positron emission tomography, and quantitative electroencephalography have revealed high rates of significant alteration in brain function among cocaine users, with negative structural imaging studies. These findings are often associated with impairment on neuropsychological evaluation, also in the absence of positive findings on CT and MRI. Both cerebral metabolic and hypoperfusion anomalies are seen, especially in anterior and temporal brain regions. Observed changes can persist for months, and for some patients, may represent a permanent change in brain functioning."}
{"id": "9576017", "title": "[Toxicity and radiation dosage of 2-(18F)-2-desoxy-D-glucose in positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Toxicity and radiation dosage of 2-(18F)-2-desoxy-D-glucose in positron emission tomography]. 2-[18F]-FDG, a non-physiological glucose analogue, is the most important positron-emission- tomography (PET) radiopharmaceutical. As an example we refer to the production of 2-[18F]-FDG at the research center in Karlsruhe. 2-[18F]-FDG is synthesized in a \"no carrier added\" process. It is delivered at a maximal filling volume of 10 ml from a 14.5 ml batch with a batch-to-batch yield fluctuation from 5075 to 50,750 MBq and a specific activity from 1 to 10 GBq/mumol. The residual remaining synthesis reagents like solvents or catalysts have no toxicological relevance. The applicated dose per patient is in a range from 185 to 370 MBq and 1000 times lower than the correlating concentrations of stable FDG which can be regarded harmless in animals. 2-[18F]-FDG does not interfere with normal glucose metabolism. It is taken up by cells and phosphorylated to 2-[18F]-FDG-6-phosphate. The following dephosphorylation step is slow and the labeled compound is retained over several hours within the cells. Non-metabolized 2-[18F]-FDG is excreted rapidly in the urine to an extent of about 16% after 60 min, and 50% after 135 min, respectively. Fluorine-18F decays by emission of 511 KeV gamma photons. The whole body effective dose is reported to be 21 to 27 microSv/MBq. In case of an intravenous injection of 370 MBq this leads to a total dose of 7.8 to 10 mSv. The critical organ is the bladder wall (radiation dose 120 to 170 microSv/MBq or 80 to 100 mrem/mCi). The risk of a radiation induced late malignoma at 10 mSv can be estimated to be 1:2000. The genetical risk as a consequence of FDG-PET diagnostics would be 1:100,000 to 2:100,000 for dominant, and 5 times higher for recessive mutations."}
{"id": "9565989", "title": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in myotonic dystrophy: a triplet-size dependent phenomenon.", "content": "Impaired cerebral glucose metabolism in myotonic dystrophy: a triplet-size dependent phenomenon. Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by an expansion of a CTG triplet repeat sequence in the 3'-noncoding region of a protein kinase gene, yet the mechanism by which the triplet repeat expansion causes disease remains unknown. Impaired glucose penetration into brain tissues has been described in DM patients and is a phenomenon that remains unexplained. The present study shows that altered brain glucose metabolism is triplet repeat dependent. We studied brain glucose metabolism (CMRGlu, mumol/100 g/min) by the use of positron emission tomography and 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in 11 ambulatory non-obese DM patients and in 11 age and sex matched healthy subjects. All subjects underwent a glucose tolerance test with plasma insulin determinations. The expansion of CTG triplet repeats was analyzed in patients with the probe cDNA25 after EcoRI digestion. As compared to controls, in DM patients, the CMRGlu was significantly decreased (26.26 +/- 5.05 vs. 33.43 +/- 2.18, mumol/100 g/min, P = 0.004), and after oral glucose loading, plasma insulin levels were significantly higher and plasma glucose levels remained unchanged (respectively, F = 11.21, P = 0.004 and F = 0.20, P = 0.66). Subsequently, the glucose/insulin ratio was significantly lower in DM patients (F = 6.25, P = 0.02). The length of the expansion of the CTG repeats correlated negatively with the CMRGlu (r2 = 0.63, P = 0.003) and positively with the area under the curve for insulin changes over time after oral glucose (r2 = 0.49, P = 0.016). We conclude that, in DM patients, the brain metabolism of glucose is impaired in a repeat dependent manner."}
{"id": "9561514", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type and vascular dementia with deep white matter changes.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type and vascular dementia with deep white matter changes. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (rCMRO2), oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF), and cerebral blood volume (rCBV) were investigated using positron emission tomography (PET) in 16 patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT), and compared with those of 6 nondemented and 3 demented patients with deep white matter high signal (DWMH) on T2-weighted MRI and 6 controls. rCBF, rCMRO2 and rCBV were determined using C15O2, 15O2 and C15O, respectively. rCBF and CMRO2 were significantly decreased in the frontal, parietal and temporal cortex (P < 0.05) in patients with SDAT, and showed a significant correlation with the severity of dementia (P < 0.05). In patients with DWMH rCBF was significantly decreased in the parietal cortex and in the frontal white matter in nondemented patients, and in the cerebral cortex and white matter of most regions studied in demented patients (P < 0.05), whereas rCMRO2 was significantly reduced in only the frontal and temporal cortex of demented patients (P < 0.05). rOEF was significantly increased in the parietal cortex of patients with SDAT and in the white matter of patients with SDAT or DWMH (P < 0.05), and the increase in the frontal white matter significantly paralleled the progression of dementia in patients with SDAT (P < 0.05). rCBV was significantly decreased in the parietal and temporal cortex of patients with SDAT (P < 0.05), but not in any areas of those with DWMH. These results suggest that rOEF is increased in both SDAT and patients with DWMH. The increase in rOEF in patients with SDAT may be accounted for by reduction in rCBV resulting from decreased activity in the vasodilatory cholinergic system, impairment of glucose metabolism and white matter changes; the rOEF increase in patients with DWMH suggests relative preservation of oxidative metabolism compared to disturbed perfusion."}
{"id": "9559960", "title": "Cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor measurement in Alzheimer's disease patients on 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate--comparison with cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor measurement in Alzheimer's disease patients on 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate--comparison with cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism. We studied the cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor (mACh-R) by means of 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate (11C-NMPB) and positron emission tomography (PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases, and the findings were compared with the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the glucose metabolism (CMRGlc) to evaluate the relationship between the mACh-R and the CBF or the CMRGlc. The subjects consisted of 18 patients with AD and 18 age and sex matched normal volunteers. The patients were clinically diagnosed according to the criteria of the NINDS-ADRDA as having \"probable AD\" and were thus classified into two groups (mild and moderate AD) according to the severity of dementia determined by DSM-III-R. The CBF was measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT, and the CMRGlc was measured by 18FDG PET. The 11C-NMPB uptake was evaluated by the graphical method and the ratio method (ROIs/Cerebellum). A significant mACh-R decrease and more severe CMRGlc decrease in the cortical region was seen in mild and moderate AD. The decrease in the CBF was not as obvious as that in the mACh-R and the CMRGlc. Our study thus suggested that the mACh-R decreased in patients with AD, and that the 18FDG PET was the most sensitive method for detecting the degenerative regions in patients with AD."}
{"id": "9557154", "title": "Cerebello-thalamo-cerebral diaschisis: a case report.", "content": "Cerebello-thalamo-cerebral diaschisis: a case report. This reports positron emission tomography and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (PET-FDG) in a 69-year-old woman who underwent resection of the left cerebellar hemisphere for an acoustic neurinoma 17 years earlier. Functional impairment in cerebral cortical and subcortical structures was evaluated by studying the level of glucose metabolic activity at rest. Relative glucose metabolism was reduced in the prefrontal cortex contralateral to the cerebellar lesion. Contralateral thalamic metabolism was reduced significantly. The results suggest that this phenomenon of \"crossed cerebello-thalamo-cerebral diaschisis\" is related to a functional depression of the cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathway."}
{"id": "9551493", "title": "Chemical and physiologic brain imaging in schizophrenia.", "content": "Chemical and physiologic brain imaging in schizophrenia. Technologic advances in functional brain imaging have provided exciting and informative insights into the functional neuroanatomy and neurochemistry of schizophrenia. Using MR spectroscopy, it has been possible to examine in vivo brain metabolism and to relate observed changes to physiological processes occurring at a cellular level. Positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography have revealed disturbances of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in patients with schizophrenia. More recently, these tools have also proved most useful in studying the relative receptor occupancy of typical and atypical antipsychotic medications."}
{"id": "9543322", "title": "Positron emission tomography in vascular dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in vascular dementia. Vascular dementia (VaD) is an ill-defined entity. It is not known how acute brain failure related to stroke becomes chronic leading to dementia. The present study investigates whether positron emission tomography (PET) can detect different metabolic patterns in VaD. Four groups of stroke patients were selected. The PET findings of 14 stroke patients with multiple large infarcts and dementia (MID) and 14 without dementia (MS) were compared. Sixteen stroke patients with lacunes, leukoaraiosis and dementia (LD) were assessed against nine without dementia (LS). The PET examination utilised the 15-O-steady-state technique in order to determine regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), regional oxygen extraction rate (rOER) and regional cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (rCMRO2) in different pre-established cortical, subcortical and cerebellar regions. Decreased coupled mean rCBF and rCMRO2 with comparable rOER values were observed in all cerebral regions except in the cerebellum of the MID compared to the MS group. In the LD group mean rCBF and rCMRO2 were decreased with increased rOER in all cerebral regions except in the cerebellum compared to the LS group. The PET findings in demented patients with multiple large infarcts are in agreement with the concept of multi-infarct dementia. In demented patients with lacunes and leukoaraiosis, the PET pattern suggests a state of misery perfusion not only in the deep structures but also in the whole cerebral cortex. The present PET study argues that there are at least two possible mechanisms that can explain the occurrence of VaD in stroke patients."}
{"id": "9524796", "title": "Regional hypometabolism related to language disturbance in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional hypometabolism related to language disturbance in Alzheimer's disease. To elucidate the nature of language disturbance in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the cerebral area involved in it, we studied 65 AD patients with the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) and with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. Partial correlations were evaluated between the Aphasia Quotient of WAB and regional cerebral glucose metabolism normalized by the mean metabolic rate in the bilateral primary sensorimotor areas after controlling age, sex, education and severity of illness. Language disturbance in AD is accounted for by deficits in the semantic processing of language and is related to glucose hypometabolism in the inferior temporal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule, especially in the dominant side. These results offer further evidence suggesting that the lexico-semantic processing system is mediated in these regions."}
{"id": "9524795", "title": "Age at onset and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Age at onset and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. This study assessed 46 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 21 aged controls using positron emission tomography. Repeated analyses using a general linear model examined the effect of age at onset on the pattern of the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc). The results showed significant age effects on the rCMRglc in the fronto-temporo-parietal association cortices and retrosplenial areas. Disease duration, overall cognitive severity or normal aging could not account for the effects. The age effects were delineated as a double dissociation, that is, early-onset patients have a more severe reduction of regional glucose metabolism in the association cortices, while late-onset patients show a more prominent metabolic deficit in the paralimbic area."}
{"id": "9493152", "title": "Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus before and after immunosuppressive treatment: a FDG PET study.", "content": "Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus before and after immunosuppressive treatment: a FDG PET study. At its inception, morphological imaging, like magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), is often not useful in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE), although the disease clinically shows cerebral symptoms. Functional imaging, like positron emission tomography (PET), may be a method that offers some advantages. We report a 53-year-old white man with decreased memory and visual disturbances who met four of the American Rheumatism Association (ARA) criteria for the classification of SLE. He was investigated before and after 3 months of therapy using PET and F-18-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Treatment consisted of prednisone (25 mg/day, tapered to 10 mg/day) and cyclophosphamide (daily 100 mg for 3 weeks followed by a drug-free interval of 1 week). For the control group, 15 clinically and neurologically healthy volunteers (5 male, 10 female, aged 48 +/- 7 years) were investigated. All study participants additionally had a cranial MRI. In both controls and the SLE patient, cranial MRI was negative. However, the patient showed a significant hypometabolism in the region parieto-occipital on both sides and the parietal region on the right side before treatment. After treatment metabolism in these regions was within normal limits. Hence, FDG-PET could help to verify brain-onset of SLE earlier and may be a powerful tool for controlling SLE treatment."}
{"id": "9485067", "title": "[11C]raclopride-PET studies of the Huntington's disease rate of progression: relevance of the trinucleotide repeat length.", "content": "[11C]raclopride-PET studies of the Huntington's disease rate of progression: relevance of the trinucleotide repeat length. We used [11C]raclopride and positron emission tomography (PET) to assess the relationship between striatal dopamine D2 receptor binding, trinucleotide repeat number (CAG), and subject age in 10 asymptomatic and 8 symptomatic carriers of the Huntington's disease (HD) mutation. In both preclinical and symptomatic gene carriers, we found significant correlations between CAG repeat length and the ratio of percent loss in striatal D2 receptor binding divided by age. In accord with neuropathological studies, we obtained an intercept at 35.5 CAG repeats in the symptomatic HD patients. Nonetheless, we noted that the slopes of the correlation lines differed significantly for the presymptomatic and symptomatic cohorts. These PET results support the notion that the HD disease process is a function of trinucleotide length and age, and that the development of clinical signs and symptoms is associated with CAG repeat lengths greater than 35.5. However, our analysis also suggests that striatal degeneration may proceed in a nonlinear fashion. These findings have implications for the design of neuroprotective strategies for the treatment of HD."}
{"id": "9484357", "title": "Frontal lobe hypometabolism and depression in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe hypometabolism and depression in Alzheimer's disease. Depression is common in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinicoanatomic studies in focal brain injuries and functional imaging studies both in primary depression and in depression secondary to neurologic diseases have demonstrated involvement of the frontal lobe. Frontal involvement has not been established in the depression of AD. We studied the correlation between focal brain metabolic abnormalities and depression in AD. In 53 patients with probable AD of minimal to moderate disability, we assessed the severity of depression using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and correlated the depression score with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and PET. Depression was present in 19 patients (36%). The depression score correlated significantly with normalized glucose metabolic rates in the bilateral superior frontal and left anterior cingulate cortices. These results indicated an association between depression and decreased activity in the frontal lobe in AD and support frontal involvement, especially in the left side, in depression, irrespective of disease etiology."}
{"id": "9454619", "title": "Safety of intrastriatal neurotransplantation for Huntington's disease patients.", "content": "Safety of intrastriatal neurotransplantation for Huntington's disease patients. Fetal neural transplantation has been shown to be a feasible, safe, and according to a number of recent reports, effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Fetal striatal transplantation may be as feasible, safe, and effective a treatment for Huntington's disease (HD), a disorder for which there is currently no effective treatment. This report describes our experience with fetal striatal transplantation to adult striatum in three HD patients. Three moderately advanced, nondemented HD patients received transplantation of fetal striatal tissue. The striatal precursor was selectively obtained from the lateral ganglionic eminence. Each patient received bilateral grafts from five to eight donors, placed into the caudate nucleus (one graft on each side) and the putamen (four grafts on each side). All three patients had HD as documented by family history, DNA heterozygosity (17-20 and 48-51 repeats), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealing striatal atrophy, and 2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealing striatal hypometabolism. All patients had been evaluated using the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale and appropriate neuropsychological tests for at least 3 months prior to transplantation. One year following transplantation, MRI of all three patients revealed that the grafts survived and grew within the striatum without displacing the surrounding tissue. No patients demonstrated adverse effects of the surgery or the associated cyclosporin immunosuppression, nor did any patient exhibit deterioration following the procedure. The limited experience provided by these three patients indicates that fetal tissue transplantation can be performed in HD patients without unexpected complications."}
{"id": "9443761", "title": "Changes in cerebral blood flow and postsynaptic muscarinic cholinergic activity in rats with bilateral carotid artery ligation.", "content": "Changes in cerebral blood flow and postsynaptic muscarinic cholinergic activity in rats with bilateral carotid artery ligation. Changes in both regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and postsynaptic muscarinic cholinergic activity in the rat brain were investigated after ligation of the common carotid arteries (CCAs) bilaterally with (15)O-labeled water (H2(15)O) and [11C]N-methyl-4-piperidylbenzilate, a potent muscarinic receptor antagonist. PET was performed in the same Wistar rat, 7 days and 1 mo after the CCA ligation. Regional cerebral blood flow and the transfer coefficient k3, the rate of binding of 11C-NMPB, were measured, based on the autoradiographic method and the graphical plotting analysis, respectively. The levels of rCBF in the frontal cortex of the ligated group were significantly lower than those in the cerebellum and those in sham group, after 7 days and 1 mo postoperation. Although the level of k3 in the frontal cortex 7 days after operation was not altered, it decreased significantly after 1 mo in the ligated group. Neither cortical infarct nor cortical neuronal loss was observed histologically. Common carotid artery ligation in Wistar rats caused a prolonged cerebral hypoperfusion without degeneration of the cortical neurons and a later decline of postsynaptic cholinergic receptor activity. These findings suggest that the decline in the postsynaptic cholinergic activity that is associated with the prolonged reduction in the cerebral blood supply may reflect pathophysiology that is equivalent to the deterioration of cognitive function in patients with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency."}
{"id": "10096415", "title": "Functional anatomy of verbal and visuospatial span tasks in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Functional anatomy of verbal and visuospatial span tasks in Alzheimer's disease. The aim of the study was to emphasize cerebral regions which subserve the performance of short-term memory tasks in patients with Alzheimer's disease. We correlated scores obtained on span tasks with cerebral metabolism measured at rest with positron emission tomography. Scores obtained on the digit span task correlated with glucose metabolism in a brain area centered on the premotor cortex and extending to the adjacent motor and parietal gyri. There exists some evidence suggesting that this area may subserve the sequential organization of material stored in short-term memory. In a secondary analysis, we also observed significant interregional correlations between left-sided brain areas which are part of the neural network subserving verbal working memory processes in healthy controls. These data suggest that individual performance on verbal span tasks in AD patients may essentially depend on the preservation of their ordination processing capacity. The absence of correlation with prefrontal regions suggests that AD patients might not spontaneously engage central executive resources to reach their maximal span score. For simultaneous visuospatial span task, the performance of patients correlated with posterior brain regions, and not with prefrontal cortices."}
{"id": "9549589", "title": "Can neuroimaging techniques identify individuals at risk of developing Alzheimer's disease?", "content": "Can neuroimaging techniques identify individuals at risk of developing Alzheimer's disease? Recent studies indicate that neuroimaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computed tomography can accurately differentiate patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) from elderly controls. This report reviews the results of neuroimaging studies of two at-risk populations: subjects with the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E and those with mild cognitive impairment. The results of the work published to date indicate that the presence of the epsilon 4 allele is a risk factor for AD and that its predictive validity can be enhanced by neuropsychological and/or neuroimaging evaluation. The results also show that patients with mild cognitive impairment display a number of structural and functional imaging abnormalities that are more pronounced in the temporal and parietal lobes. We suggest that the use of neuroimaging techniques can improve the detection of subjects early in the course of AD, although the sensitivity and the specificity of this approach still await a more detailed prospective evaluation."}
{"id": "9522398", "title": "Mood state and cerebral metabolism in persons with age-associated memory impairment.", "content": "Mood state and cerebral metabolism in persons with age-associated memory impairment. People undergoing medical procedures sometimes experience feelings that may influence the results. In this study, we explore the relationship between changes in mood state self-ratings and cerebral glucose metabolism during positron emission tomography (PET) in persons with age-associated memory impairment (mean age 59.4 +/- 9.8 years). Brain regions of interest involved in both mood and memory were examined. Mood ratings of increased boredom correlated significantly with mesial temporal and parietal asymmetry and decreased parietal metabolism. Mood ratings of increased fatigue correlated with basal ganglia asymmetry and the right basal ganglia and left mesial temporal metabolism. These findings suggest that subjective mood state changes during PET may influence metabolism in brain regions implicated in emotion and memory function in people with age-related memory complaints."}
{"id": "9503973", "title": "[Hippocampal hypoperfusion underlying dementia due to chronic toluene intoxication].", "content": "[Hippocampal hypoperfusion underlying dementia due to chronic toluene intoxication]. To elucidate the pathophysiology underlying the dementia due to chronic intoxication of toluene, a positron emission tomography was carried out in a 24-year-old right-handed man who had been sniffing thinner which contains toluene for 6 years. In addition to the cerebellar ataxia and pyramidal signs, this patient exhibited a mental deterioration including recent memory disturbance: verbal IQ was 52, performance IQ was 52 and total score was 51 on WAIS-R. MRI revealed a mild diffuse cortical atrophy, symmetrical hyperintensity lesions in the corticospinal tracts including corona radiata posterior limb of the internal capsule and ventral part of the pons, and hypointensity lesions in the both thalami on T2-weighted images, whereas the changes in the deep white matter was relatively mild on T2-weighted images. In PET, both cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) were diffusely decreased bilaterally, and specifically in both hippocampi, they were reduced as low as 61% of the normal values as obtained from 12 young normal volunteers. Additionally, in the frontal cortex, CBF and CMRO2 were 60% and 71% of the normal values, respectively. Although the dementia due to chronic toluene intoxication has been assumed to be closely related to the degree of the cerebral white matter lesions based on the MR findings, the present results suggest that the mental deterioration including recent memory disturbance seen in the early stage of chronic toluene intoxication is associated with the hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in the hippocampus and frontal limbic system."}
{"id": "9470127", "title": "PET and the investigation of dementia in the parkinsonian patient.", "content": "PET and the investigation of dementia in the parkinsonian patient. Parkinsonism and dementia are present in a number of neurodegenerative conditions. They may be a manifestation of isolated brain stem (Parkinson's disease) or diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), or be secondary to combined Lewy body and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathologies. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies show a resting pattern of fronto-temporo-parietal hypometabolism in both, AD and in parkinsonism-dementia (PD-dementia) patients, even when only isolated brain stem Lewy body disease is found at pathology. We have studied three patients fulfilling clinical criteria for diagnosis of DLBD. Their 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET results showed an AD pattern of fronto-temporo-parietal hypometabolism, though these patients had only mild cognitive dysfunction. Parkinsonism associated with apraxia is observed in corticobasal degeneration (CBD) while impairment of frontal functions, such as planning and sorting, is seen in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). PET studies in CBD patients have shown an asymmetric hypometabolism of cortex and thalamus contralateral to the affected limbs, while in PSP patients there is a global metabolic reduction most pronounced in frontal areas and the basal ganglia. These results suggest that metabolic PET studies can help to distinguish PD-dementia, PSP and CBD, but are unable to distinguish PD-dementia from AD. Further studies with post-mortem confirmation are required to establish if DLBD is associated with a distinctive pattern of resting hypometabolism."}
{"id": "9453681", "title": "Compulsive behaviors as presenting symptoms of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Compulsive behaviors as presenting symptoms of frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a common neurodegenerative dementia syndrome. Compulsive behaviors frequently occur in FTD and may be presenting symptoms of this disorder. This study evaluated compulsive behaviors as presenting symptoms in 29 patients with FTD compared to 48 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) enrolled in the UCLA Alzheimer's Disease Center. The FTD patients met the Lund and Manchester criteria for FTD and had predominant frontal hypoperfusion on single-photon emission computer tomography neuroimaging. The AD patients met National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders criteria for clinically probable AD. Compulsive behaviors occurred in 11 FTD patients (38%) versus 5 AD patients (10%) (chi2 = 6.73, P < .01). This difference persisted after controlling for the younger age of the FTD group. There was a range of compulsive behaviors, with the most frequent being repetitive checking activities. Compulsive behaviors are common presenting symptoms among FTD patients and may result from an inability to inhibit urges to perform compulsive movements from damage to frontal-striatal circuits."}
{"id": "9448582", "title": "Prefrontal asymmetric interictal glucose hypometabolism and cognitive impairment in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Prefrontal asymmetric interictal glucose hypometabolism and cognitive impairment in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Depressions of regional cerebral metabolism beyond the epileptogenic zone have been demonstrated in patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. However, their clinical relevance, and the causes of prefrontal metabolic asymmetries are less well understood. We investigated 96 temporal lobe epilepsy patients by FDG-PET and neuropsychological assessment who had a corresponding unilateral temporal hypometabolism, left hemisphere speech dominance, full scale IQ of > 70 and no extratemporal lesion in MRIs. The regional glucose metabolism was determined in each patient in homologous regions including prefrontal cortex, and normalized to whole brain metabolism. Regional differences of > 10% were regarded as asymmetrical. Prefrontal metabolic asymmetries were more frequent in patients with left temporal lobe epilepsy (21 left, six right) and a history of secondarily generalized seizures. A multivariate analysis of variance revealed a main effect for prefrontal metabolic asymmetry on neuropsychological 'frontal lobe measures', including verbal and performance intelligence measures. Prefrontal metabolic asymmetry was not related to 'measures of episodic memory', presence of psychiatric symptoms or frontal interictal epileptiform discharges. We conclude that prefrontal metabolic asymmetry is associated with cognitive impairment. Patients with temporal lobe epilepsy of the left speech dominant hemisphere and a history of secondarily generalized seizures are at considerable risk of developing prefrontal metabolic asymmetry."}
{"id": "9447442", "title": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and APO E4 medial temporal lobe dementias. The Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging.", "content": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and APO E4 medial temporal lobe dementias. The Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging. In a prospective study of more than 200 cases of dementia and 119 controls, annual technetium-99m-hexamethyl-propylene amineoxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and annual medial temporal lobe (MTL) oriented X-ray computed tomography (CT) have been used to evaluate the diagnostic potential of functional and structural neuroimaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Some subjects have had up to 7 annual evaluations. So far, of 151 who have died, 143 (95%) have come to necropsy. Histology is known for 118, of whom 80 had Alzheimer's disease (AD), 24 had other \"non-AD\" dementias, and 14 controls with no cognitive deficit in life also had no significant central nervous system pathology. To compare the findings in the dementias with the profile of structural and functional imaging in the cognitively normal elderly, scan data from 105 living, elderly controls without cognitive deficit have also been included in the analysis. All clinical diagnoses were according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicable Disease and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd ed., rev.; DSM-III-R) criteria, and all histopathological diagnoses according to the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) criteria. Early data from this cohort have suggested that the combination of both MTL atrophy seen on CT with parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT may predict the pathology of AD. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of the NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria could be assessed in this cohort against the gold standard of histopathology. The diagnostic potential of CT evidence of MTL atrophy alone, SPECT evidence of parietotemporal hypoperfusion alone, and the combination of both of these scan changes in the same individual could then be compared against the diagnostic accuracy of clinical operational criteria in the pathologically confirmed cases. Furthermore, all of these modalities could be compared with the diagnostic accuracy of apolipoprotein E4 (Apo E4) genotyping to predict AD in the histopathologically confirmed cohort. In this population, NINCDS \"probable-AD\" was 100% specific, 49% sensitive, and 66% accurate; \"possible-AD\" was only 61% specific, but 93% sensitive and 77% accurate; and the combination of both \"probable-AD\" and \"possible-AD\" was 61% specific, 96% sensitive, and 85% accurate. DSM-III-R criteria were 51% sensitive, 97% specific, and 66% accurate. In the same cases and including the 105 living, elderly controls, the diagnostic accuracy of the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging (OPTIMA) scanning criteria showed CT alone to be 85% sensitive, 78% specific, and 80% accurate; SPECT alone had 89% sensitivity, 80% specificity, and 83% accuracy; and the combination of the two was 80% sensitive, 93% specific, and 88% accurate. The Apo E4 genotype was 74% sensitive but yielded 40% false positives in the histologically confirmed series. The diagnostic accuracy afforded by this method of CT and SPECT used alone is better than that of any established clinical criteria and reveals that the combination of MTL atrophy and parietotemporal hypoperfusion is common in AD, much less common in other dementias, and rare in normal controls. In the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria \"possible-AD\" cases, the combination of CT and SPECT findings alone were better in all diagnostic indices than the presence of Apo E4 alone in predicting AD. The frequent occurrence of MTL atrophy in AD and also in other \"non-AD\" dementias later in the course of the disease suggests the concept of medial temporal lobe dementia. This could explain some of the overlap of clinical profiles in the dementias, particularly as the dementia progresses, making clinical differential diagnosis difficult. In this context, the use of SPECT can significantly e"}
{"id": "9430315", "title": "Positron emission tomography in children with neurofibromatosis-1.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in children with neurofibromatosis-1. Neurofibromatosis-1 is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder commonly associated with neuropsychological complications. Focal areas of high signal intensity on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans occur commonly but have shown inconsistent correlation with neuropsychological problems. Positron emission tomography (PET) scans utilizing [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and MRI studies were performed on 10 children with neurofibromatosis-1 and multiple focal areas of high signal intensity to evaluate the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose of these lesions and other central nervous system structures. Co-registered PET and MRI studies confirmed reduced glucose metabolism of large focal areas of high signal intensity. Visual inspection and semiquantitative analysis of PET images demonstrated thalamic hypometabolism and varying degrees of cortical inhomogeneity in all cases of neurofibromatosis-1 compared to normal controls. Although a primary defect of the thalamus or cerebral cortex has not been defined, the metabolic abnormalities of this study suggest a potential relationship between these structures and the neuropsychological dysfunctions noted in neurofibromatosis-1."}
{"id": "9417975", "title": "Cholinergic neurotransmission has different effects on cerebral glucose consumption and blood flow in young normals, aged normals, and Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Cholinergic neurotransmission has different effects on cerebral glucose consumption and blood flow in young normals, aged normals, and Alzheimer's disease patients. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose consumption (GC) are both tracers of brain metabolic activity used to image the human brain in vivo. To know if both tracers reacted in the same manner when brain cholinergic neurotransmission was activated, CBF and GC were measured in young normals (YN), aged normals (AN), and Alzheimer's Disease patients (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET), H2 15O, and 18F-FDG. Each subject was studied twice, under placebo and physostigmine, in randomized order and blind fashion using the maximal tolerated dose of physostigmine individually determined. Under physostigmine CBF increased significantly (P = 0.0007) in posterior regions of the cerebral cortex and in the subcortical structures. Inversely, GC was decreased significantly in most regions. The largest decrease was seen in the prefrontal region of the cerebral cortex (P < 0.0001). Significant regional decreases were registered in all three groups of subjects, but were larger in AD than in controls. Looking at the absolute values of prefrontal cortex metabolism we found no correlation (r = 0.04) between the responses of CBF and GC. After normalization of the regional values for the mean we found a significant positive correlation between the responses of CBF and GC (r = 0.71, P < 0.0001). These findings suggest two components in the CBF response to physostigmine: one metabolic, depressive, and regional which follows the GC response; and one vascular, larger, diffuse, and opposite in direction to the metabolic component. These results have implications for the interpretation of CBF values as tracer of brain metabolic activity when brain cholinergic neurotransmission is manipulated."}
{"id": "9389593", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease: a comparative study using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease: a comparative study using positron emission tomography. Regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) was studied in 19 patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 19 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET). The two groups were matched with age, gender, disease duration and severity of cognitive disturbances. In 'dementia with Lewy bodies' (DLB) patients, when compared with AD patients, significant rCMRglc decreases were distributed in the temporo-parieto-occipital association cortices and the cerebellar hemispheres. In contrast, the medial temporal and cingulate rCMRglc were significantly lower in AD patients than those in DLB patients. These different regional emphases of glucose hypometabolism are consistent with the pathological and neurochemical differences between DLB and AD and explain the different clinical features of the two diseases."}
{"id": "9376968", "title": "Subtle neuropsychological impairment and minor cognitive-motor disorder in HIV-1 infection. Neuroradiological, neurophysiological, neuroimmunological, and virological correlates.", "content": "Subtle neuropsychological impairment and minor cognitive-motor disorder in HIV-1 infection. Neuroradiological, neurophysiological, neuroimmunological, and virological correlates. HIV-1 infection of brain may be associated with multiple treatment targets, only the most severe of which is represented by HAD. Focusing on earlier treatment targets such as MCMD and cognitive-motor impairment in the absence of any clinical disorder (as well as neuroprotection) may prove to be of greater clinical utility in the treatment and prevention of such impairment than a focus on later-stage cognitive-motor disease, when neuronal cell death is already extensive. This may be especially important now that improvements using the protease inhibitors in triple-drug combination regimens have reduced plasma viral load to unmeasurable levels, while these drugs do not penetrate the CSF well. Currently, peripheral blood markers do not appear to be highly sensitive for central nervous system impairment, and specific CSF laboratory markers have some limited value at present-while requiring a lumbar puncture to obtain. Hence, a role for noninvasive techniques using neuroimaging exists in the clinical management of HIV-1-infected patients. To date, structural imaging techniques have proven limited in value for HIV-1-specific impairment. Several functional techniques (PET, SPECT, and MR spectroscopy) have now provided promising results for the purposes of identifying clinically significant dysfunction, relating such dysfunction to clinical neuropsychiatric symptom status, and for treatment response monitoring. Further studies are needed to examine the extent to which such imaging modalities not only parallel clinically relevant aspects of HIV-1 disease progression, but also match specific types of neuropsychologic performance deficits with potential significance for neuroanatomical localization. It is particularly important to include neurophysiological, neuroimmunological, and virological measures in studies that examine clinical neuropsychiatric status with neuroimaging techniques. In addition, the inclusion of neuropathology data, where possible, is important because demonstration of HIV-1 encephalitis cannot be equated with clinical disorder and because specific HIV-1-associated pathological changes have not yet been proven to be assessed well with neuroimaging techniques (e.g., the extent of microglial cell and macrophage activation). Also, treatment response studies are needed in conjunction with primary antiretroviral therapy regimens specifically aimed at central nervous system penetration (e.g., GW1592, GW141, and nevirapine). The results of such work will provide the data required to determine whether these promising functional neuroimaging techniques will aid in meeting the expected, imminent increase in clinical burden of this frequent complication of HIV-1 infection."}
{"id": "9368195", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in borderline personality disorder.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in borderline personality disorder. We searched for regional cerebral metabolic disturbances in patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD). Ten inpatients with BPD, no current DSM-IIIR Axis I diagnosis and free of any psychotropic substances, were compared with 15 age-matched control subjects using positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose and semiquantitative analysis of regional glucose metabolic activity. We found relative hypometabolism in patients with borderline personality disorder at the level of the premotor and prefrontal cortical areas, the anterior part of the cingulate cortex and the thalamic, caudate and lenticular nuclei. This study shows significant cerebral metabolic disturbances in patients with borderline personality disorder. These metabolic disturbances, which are similar to some of those described in other psychiatric entities, may help to understand the characteristic clinical aspects of this disorder."}
{"id": "9345544", "title": "Mapping histology to metabolism: coregistration of stained whole-brain sections to premortem PET in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Mapping histology to metabolism: coregistration of stained whole-brain sections to premortem PET in Alzheimer's disease. The association between [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) counts obtained 8 h before death and neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) staining density in a patient with Alzheimer's disease (AD) was evaluated. In our patient FDG-PET counts were globally decreased with a greater focal deficit in the left medial temporal region independent of volume loss. After death, whole-brain sections derived from cryomacrotome sectioning were stained for NFTs by the Gallyas method and elastically warped into their native space enabling registration with premortem FDG-PET data. Gallyas staining density was localized to the paralimbic cortex of the basal forebrain, medial temporal, and orbital frontal regions. The poor correlation between NFT staining density and hypometabolism on FDG-PET implicates alternate mechanisms underlying the metabolic defect in AD."}
{"id": "9344051", "title": "Adaptive and maladaptive behaviour in children with epileptic encephalopathies: correlation with cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Adaptive and maladaptive behaviour in children with epileptic encephalopathies: correlation with cerebral glucose metabolism. In the childhood epileptic encephalopathies mental impairment is common and severe. Traditional cognitive assessment is difficult because of the low level of performance, autistic features, and the unpredictable effect of seizures. An alternative is to measure adaptive and maladaptive behaviour using instruments administered to the caregivers. Adults with different types of dementia have characteristic patterns of cortical glucose hypometabolism. Thirty-two children were studied using visual and semiquantitative analysis of 18fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic (PET) scans. The Vineland Scales and the Conners' Questionnaires were used to assess adaptive and maladaptive behaviour. The mean adaptive behaviour composite score was 37.3+/-15.6; all but one subject had a low adaptive level. A profile of relative strength in socialisation and weakness in daily living skills emerged. Up to two-thirds of children had abnormal behaviour patterns, particularly attention-deficit disorders and hyperactivity. Adaptive and maladaptive behaviour was not related to the presence or absence of focal cortical PET abnormalities. However, adaptive behaviour scores showed an inverse correlation with the degree of metabolic abnormality in the frontal lobes."}
{"id": "9329699", "title": "Misery perfusion with preserved vascular reactivity in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Misery perfusion with preserved vascular reactivity in Alzheimer's disease. To elucidate the hemodynamic pathophysiology underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD), cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) were measured with positron emission tomography in 10 patients with probable AD and in 20 age-matched normal volunteers. By the 15O intravenous bolus injection method, CBF was measured during resting state, CO2 inhalation (hypercapnia) and hyperventilation (hypocapnia), and the vascular reactivity (VR) was estimated by comparing the CBF changes (delta CBF%/PaCO2 mmHg) in the hyper- or hypocapnic to the resting state. By the 15O2 single-breath method or 15O steady-state method, CMRO2 and OEF were measured during resting state. Based on 26 regions of interest, local CBF, CMRO2 and OEF were compared statistically between the two groups. As compared with the control group, the mean CBF and CMRO2 decreased to as low as 77.0% and 88.4% of the normal values, respectively, while the mean OEF increased by 12.1% (p < 0.05) in AD patients. These changes were most pronounced in the supramarginal and superior temporal gyri. There was no focal change in VR in the AD group, and no significant difference was seen in VR to either hyper- or hypocapnia between AD and control groups. The results may suggest a vascular involvement, possibly at the capillary level, that might cause a relative misery perfusion syndrome accompanied by preserved vascular reactivity in AD."}
{"id": "9329697", "title": "Clinical studies of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical studies of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease. Studies of Alzheimer's disease using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) have found reductions in blood flow and glucose metabolism in temporal and parietal cortex. In 50 AD patients who underwent neuropsychological testing and SPECT perfusion imaging, we found significant correlations between perfusion and performance on the Mini-Mental Status Examination in the frontal and parietal lobes. In addition, specific correlations between perfusion in the frontal lobes and performance on tests of frontal lobe ability were noted. These findings, while suggesting the importance of perfusion measures in determining clinical features of the disease, do not clearly define perfusion changes as primary, since similar findings have been seen when metabolism is studied. In a separate group of 5 AD patients and 16 controls, we used PET with the perfusion tracer HIPDM and examined cerebrovascular reactivity to carbon dioxide inhalation. We found that in multiple brain regions, including the temporal lobes, AD patients showed robust and significant increases in perfusion in response to carbon dioxide that did not differ from the response seen in the controls. Taken together, these results show that while perfusion changes are important in AD, they are not clearly either primary or limiting."}
{"id": "9329696", "title": "Decreased brain glucose metabolism in microvessels from patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Decreased brain glucose metabolism in microvessels from patients with Alzheimer's disease. We studied brain glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease and age-matched controls in vivo by PET and assessed brain glucose utilization and the phosphorylation constant K3 for hexokinase. In addition we determined in vitro the binding of 2DG and measured its phosphorylation to 2DG-phosphate in cerebral microvessels obtained at autopsy from subjects with Alzheimer's disease and age-matched controls. In patients with Alzheimer's disease we found a marked decrease in the kinetic constant K3 for the hexokinase, and a marked decrease in the overall metabolism of glucose in our PET studies; in microvessels there was a marked decrease in the affinity of 2DG and a decrease in hexokinase activity. Alzheimer's disease may be related to a complex alteration in brain glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "9329693", "title": "Brain energy metabolizing enzymes in Alzheimer's disease: alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex and cytochrome oxidase.", "content": "Brain energy metabolizing enzymes in Alzheimer's disease: alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex and cytochrome oxidase. PET observations of reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in AD could be explained by a defect in key energy metabolizing enzymes. In particular, levels of two enzymes, cytochrome oxidase (CO) and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (alpha KGDHC) are generally assumed to be reliably reduced in postmortem brain of patients with AD. How strong is the evidence that brain CO and alpha KGDHC are reduced in AD? In our study CO activity and alpha KGDHC activity and protein subunit levels were measured in cerebral cortex of 19-29 AD patients and 29 control subjects. We found that mean CO activity in cerebral cortex was reduced by 16-26% in the AD group but with almost complete overlap between control and patient ranges. Since our publication in 1992, mean brain CO activity in AD was modestly reduced in 9 independent studies (p < 0.05 in 5). Activity of alpha KGDHC varied widely in control/AD subjects and is not useful as an enzyme marker. Cerebral cortical protein levels of E1-3 subunits, which showed much less variance, were reduced by 23-41% but with large overlap between control/patient groups. We concluded that decreased (i.e., below normal) brain CO and alpha KGDHC is a feature of some, but not all patients with AD. The possible causes and significance of the enzyme changes are discussed."}
{"id": "9329691", "title": "ApoE, Alzheimer's disease, and recovery from brain stress.", "content": "ApoE, Alzheimer's disease, and recovery from brain stress. Apolipoprotein E (APOE, gene; ApoE, protein) is the major genetic susceptibility locus for the common forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There are three common polymorphisms in the population: epsilon 2, epsilon 3, and epsilon 4. The inheritance of each dose of epsilon 4 increases the risk and lowers the age of onset distribution for AD; epsilon 2 lowers the risk and increases the age of onset distribution. APOE-epsilon 4 has a high positive predictive value for AD, and is clinically useful as an adjunct in the early diagnosis of cognitively impaired patients. The APOE alleles have also been associated with risk of AD with head injury, intraneuronal localization of ApoE in animal stroke models, recovery of function after intracerebral hemorrhage, and recovery of psychological parameters after general cardiac anesthesia. A multifunctional role of ApoE in the brain implicates isoform-specific differences in interactions with several brain proteins including A beta, tau, and MAP-2. Intraneuronal ApoE is increased temporally and in relevant neurons in AD as a function of APOE genotype. Decreased glucose metabolism can be demonstrated by PET imaging in subjects two decades before the median age of onset as a function of APOE genotype. ApoE isoforms may also have different effects as antioxidants. The risk of stroke and vascular dementia has not been confirmed in neuropathological series to be related to specific APOE genotypes."}
{"id": "9329348", "title": "Cortisol reduces hippocampal glucose metabolism in normal elderly, but not in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cortisol reduces hippocampal glucose metabolism in normal elderly, but not in Alzheimer's disease. Glucocorticoids are known to play a role in the regulation of peripheral glucose mobilization and metabolism. Although several animal studies have shown that hippocampal glucose metabolism is reduced acutely and chronically by the action of corticosterone and that excess glucocorticoids are harmful to hippocampal neurons, little is known about the central effects of glucocorticoids in the human. In this study we examined the brain glucose utilization (CMRglu) response to hydrocortisone (cortisol) in seven normal elderly and eight Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. On 2 separate days, immediately after the administration of a bolus of either 35 mg hydrocortisone or placebo, we administered 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose. After a 35-min radiotracer uptake period, positron emission tomography (PET) images were collected. PET CMRglu images were analyzed using two methods: an image transformation that allowed analyses across cases on a voxel by voxel basis, and an anatomically based region of interest method that used coregistered magnetic resonance imaging scans. Both image analysis methods yielded similar results, identifying relative to placebo, a specific hippocampal CMRglu reduction in response to the hydrocortisone challenge that was restricted to the normal group. The region of interest technique showed CMRglu reductions of 16% and 12% in the right and left hippocampi, respectively. Blood collected during the PET scans showed, for the normal group, a rise in plasma glucose levels, starting approximately 25 min after hydrocortisone administration. The AD group did not show this effect. Baseline cortisol was elevated in the AD group, but the clearance of hydrocortisone was not different between the groups. In conclusion, these data show that among normal individuals in the presence of a pharmacological dose of cortisol, the glucose utilization of the hippocampus is specifically reduced, and serum glucose levels increase. Based in part on other studies, we offer the interpretation that glucocorticoid-mediated regulation of glucose transport is altered in AD, and this may underlie both the hippocampal insensitivity to cortisol and the failure in these patients to mount a peripheral glucose response. As our findings could reflect an altered state of the AD patients, we interpret our results as preliminary with respect to evidence for metabolic abnormalities in AD. The results suggest the continued study of the hydrocortisone challenge as a test of hippocampal responsivity."}
{"id": "9328254", "title": "Transient global amnesia: implicit/explicit memory dissociation and PET assessment of brain perfusion and oxygen metabolism in the acute stage.", "content": "Transient global amnesia: implicit/explicit memory dissociation and PET assessment of brain perfusion and oxygen metabolism in the acute stage. To assess explicit memory and two components of implicit memory--that is, perceptual-verbal skill learning and lexical-semantic priming effects--as well as resting cerebral blood flow (CBF) and oxygen metabolism (CMRO2) during the acute phase of transient global amnesia. In a 59 year old woman, whose amnestic episode fulfilled all current criteria for transient global amnesia, a neuropsychological protocol was administered, including word learning, story recall, categorical fluency, mirror reading, and word stem completion tasks. PET was performed using the (15)O steady state inhalation method, while the patient still exhibited severe anterograde amnesia and was interleaved with the cognitive tests. There was a clear cut dissociation between impaired long term episodic memory and preserved implicit memory for its two components. Categorical fluency was significantly altered, suggesting word retrieval strategy--rather than semantic memory--impairment. The PET study disclosed a reduced CMRO2 with relatively or fully preserved CBF in the left prefrontotemporal cortex and lentiform nucleus, and the reverse pattern over the left occipital cortex. The PET alterations with patchy CBF-CMRO2 uncoupling would be compatible with a migraine-like phenomenon and indicate that the isolated assessment of perfusion in transient global amnesia may be misleading. The pattern of metabolic depression, with sparing of the hippocampal area, is one among the distinct patterns of brain dysfunction that underlie the (apparently) uniform clinical presentation of transient global amnesia. The finding of a left prefrontal hypometabolism in the face of impaired episodic memory and altered verbal fluency would fit present day concepts from PET activation studies about the role of this area in episodic and semantic memory encoding/retrieval. Likewise, the changes affecting the lenticular nucleus but sparing the caudate would be consistent with the normal performance in perceptual-verbal skill learning. Finally, unaltered lexical-semantic priming effects, despite left temporal cortex hypometabolism, suggest that these processes are subserved by a more distributed neocortical network."}
{"id": "9305290", "title": "Regional correlations between the EEG and oxygen metabolism in dementia of Alzheimer's type.", "content": "Regional correlations between the EEG and oxygen metabolism in dementia of Alzheimer's type. To determine the relationship between EEG slowing and cerebral hypometabolism in dementia, 10 patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) were evaluated with quantitative topographic EEG and positron emission tomography (PET). Power in each 1-Hz frequency band from 2-20 Hz, power ratio index, and normalised PET data from corresponding cortical sites were compared to data obtained from 20 normal volunteers. PET revealed significant parieto-temporal hypometabolism, and topographic EEG mapping and power spectrum analysis revealed a slowing of the background EEG that was most pronounced in the parietal-temporal areas. Correlation analysis between EEG power spectrum data and CMRO2 revealed significant negative correlations for frequencies below 8 Hz and significant positive correlations above 8 Hz in the parieto-temporal regions, which have previously been identified as the areas most severely affected by pathological changes associated with DAT. Correlation coefficients plotted as functions of frequency illustrated the relationships between EEG changes and reduced CMRO2, supporting previous views that EEG slowing in DAT may be related to hypometabolism in cortical regions most affected by the disease."}
{"id": "9297714", "title": "Hemispatial neglect on visual search tasks in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hemispatial neglect on visual search tasks in Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal visual attention may underlie certain visuospatial difficulties in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). These patients have hypometabolism and neuropathology in parietal cortex. Given the role of parietal function for visuospatial attention, patients with AD may have relative hemispatial neglect masked by other cognitive disturbances. Fifteen patients with-to-moderate AD and 15 healthy elderly controls matched for age, sex, and education were compared on four measures of neglect the visual search of a complex picture, a letter cancellation task, the Schenkenberg line bisection test, and a computerized line bisection task. Compared with controls, the group with AD was significantly impaired overall in attending to left hemispace on both picture search (F[1,56] = 11.27, p < 0.05) and cancellation tasks (F[1,112] = 12.68, p < 0.01); however, a subgroup of patients with AD had disproportionate difficulty in attending to right hemispace. The performance of the groups did not differ on either of the line bisection tasks regardless of the hand used. In AD, hemispatial neglect on visual search tasks may relate to difficulty in disengaging attention or in visual exploration, as well as to the severity of the disease. Future investigations may implicate neglect in visually related deficits in AD, for example, the prominent difficulty with left turns on driving a car."}
{"id": "9295092", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose utilization is modulated by the dosage of apolipoprotein E type 4 allele and alpha1-antichymotrypsin type A allele in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose utilization is modulated by the dosage of apolipoprotein E type 4 allele and alpha1-antichymotrypsin type A allele in Alzheimer's disease. Twenty Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with defined apolipoprotein E (APOE), alpha1-antichymotrypsin (ACT) and presenilin-1 (PS-1) intronic genotypes were examined to quantify the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) using positron emission tomography (PET) and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). The frontal rCMRglc was significantly increased in patients with the APOE epsilon4 allele in a dose-dependent fashion. In contrast, the temporo-parietal rCMRglc was significantly reduced in ACT type A allele (ACT*A) carriers compared with those in non-ACT*A carriers. The PS-1 type 1 intronic allele had no significant effects on rCMRglc in any cerebral region. These results suggest that both the APOE and ACT genes may play a distinct role in the progression of AD as monitored by imaging studies of cerebral glucose utilization."}
{"id": "9270613", "title": "Autoimmune thyroiditis and a rapidly progressive dementia: global hypoperfusion on SPECT scanning suggests a possible mechanism.", "content": "Autoimmune thyroiditis and a rapidly progressive dementia: global hypoperfusion on SPECT scanning suggests a possible mechanism. We report the clinical, laboratory, EEG, and SPECT findings in a 59-year-old euthyroid woman with previously undiagnosed autoimmune thyroiditis, subclinical hypothyroidism, and rapidly progressive dementia. We made a diagnosis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy based on elevated thyrotropin, abnormal EEG, and clinical improvement after thyroid hormone replacement. SPECT demonstrated global hypoperfusion with normalization on clinical recovery, suggesting a possible mechanism for the pathogenesis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy."}
{"id": "9268812", "title": "Effects of abstinence and relapse upon neuropsychological function and cerebral glucose metabolism in severe chronic alcoholism.", "content": "Effects of abstinence and relapse upon neuropsychological function and cerebral glucose metabolism in severe chronic alcoholism. Prolonged excessive consumption of alcohol has been associated with a variety of cognitive disorders accompanied by neuropathological and neurochemical abnormalities of the brain, particularly in the frontal lobes. Studies with positron emission tomography (PET) have shown decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (lCMRglc) in frontal regions, with correlated abnormalities on neuropsychological tests sensitive to executive functioning. This investigation was designed as a pilot study to examine the effects of abstinence and relapse in patients with severe chronic alcoholism studied longitudinally with PET and with neuropsychological evaluation to assess both general and executive functioning. Six patients, including 4 who remained relatively abstinent and 2 who relapsed following their initial evaluation, were studied twice, with inter-evaluation intervals ranging from 10 to 32 months. The patients who remained abstinent or who had minimal alcohol use showed partial recovery of lCMRglc in two of three divisions of the frontal lobes and improvement on neuropsychological tests of general cognitive and executive functioning, whereas the patients who relapsed had further declines in these areas. These results, although based upon a relatively small number of subjects, provide preliminary support for at least partial recovery of metabolic and cognitive functioning in individual patients who abstain from alcohol."}
{"id": "9247390", "title": "Low glucose metabolism during brain stimulation in older Down's syndrome subjects at risk for Alzheimer's disease prior to dementia.", "content": "Low glucose metabolism during brain stimulation in older Down's syndrome subjects at risk for Alzheimer's disease prior to dementia. Down's syndrome is characterized by the genetically programmed accumulation of substantial Alzheimer's disease neuropathology after age 40 and the development of early dementia years later, providing a unique human model to investigate the preclinical phases of Alzheimer's disease. Older nondemented adults with Down's syndrome show normal rates of regional cerebral glucose metabolism at rest before the onset of dementia, indicating that their neurons maintain function at rest. The authors hypothesized that an audiovisual stimulation paradigm, acting as a stress test, would reveal abnormalities in cerebral glucose metabolism before dementia in the neocortical parietal and temporal areas most vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was assessed by means of positron emission tomography (PET) with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in eight younger (mean age = 35 years, SD = 2) and eight older (mean age = 50, SD = 7) healthy, nondemented adults with trisomy 21 Down's syndrome. PET scans were performed at rest and during audiovisual stimulation in the same scanning session. Levels of general intellectual functioning and compliance were similar in the two groups. At rest the two groups showed no difference in glucose metabolism in any cerebral region. In contrast, during audiovisual stimulation the older subjects with Down's syndrome had significantly lower glucose metabolic rates in the parietal and temporal cortical areas. Abnormalities in cerebral metabolism during stimulation appeared in the first cortical regions typically affected in Alzheimer's disease. These results indicate that a stress test paradigm can detect metabolic abnormalities in the preclinical stages of Alzheimer's disease despite normal cerebral metabolism at rest."}
{"id": "9225689", "title": "Metabolic reduction in the posterior cingulate cortex in very early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Metabolic reduction in the posterior cingulate cortex in very early Alzheimer's disease. This study investigated cerebral glucose metabolism in very early Alzheimer's disease, before a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease is possible, using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. First, 66 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease with a spectrum of dementia severity (Mini-Mental State Examination score, 0-23) were recruited and studied. Cortical metabolic activity was analyzed topographically using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections. Regression analysis was performed for each brain pixel to predict metabolic patterns of very early disease. Predictions were tested prospectively in a group of 8 patients who complained only of memory impairment without general cognitive decline (Mini-Mental State Examination score, 25 +/- 1) at the time of scanning but whose condition later progressed to probable Alzheimer's disease. Both results were compared to cerebral metabolic activity in 22 age-similar normal control subjects. Prediction and analysis of actual patients consistently indicated marked metabolic reduction (21-22%) in the posterior cingulate cortex and cinguloparietal transitional area in patients with very early Alzheimer's disease. Mean metabolic reduction in the posterior cingulate cortex was significantly greater than that in the lateral neocortices or parahippocampal cortex. The result suggests a functional importance for the posterior cingulate cortex in impairment of learning and memory, which is a feature of very early Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9219745", "title": "Decreased cortical glucose metabolism correlates with hippocampal atrophy in Alzheimer's disease as shown by MRI and PET.", "content": "Decreased cortical glucose metabolism correlates with hippocampal atrophy in Alzheimer's disease as shown by MRI and PET. To investigate the relation between atrophy of the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus (the % hippocampal area) and cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRGlc) in Alzheimer's disease. 13 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease by NINCDS-ADRDA criteria (six men; seven women, mean age 71 years, mini mental state 13.8 (SD 4.6)) and age matched controls were studied. T1 weighted MRI (0.5T) images were used for evaluation of the hippocampal area. With a digitiser system, a percentage of the hippocampal area to the brain (the % hippocampal area) was calculated. Eight patients received another T1 weighted MRI (1.5T) for further evaluation of the minimum thickness of the hippocampus. Regional CMRGlc (rCMRGlc) was measured using PET and the FDG technique. The hippocampal area in patients with Alzheimer's disease was significantly lower than that of controls (P < 0.01). All the cortical rCMRGlc values in patients with Alzheimer's disease were lower than those of controls (P < 0.01). A significant correlation (P < 0.05) was found between the % hippocampal area and rCMRGlc in the temporal lobe, temporoparieto-occipital (TPO) region, and frontal lobe in Alzheimer's disease. There was a significant correlation between minimal hippocampal thickness and ipsilateral TPO metabolism on both sides. The ipsilateral correlation between hippocampal atrophy and decreased TPO metabolism in Alzheimer's disease suggests a functional relation and the asymmetries show that Alzheimer's disease is an asymmetric disease in its early stages."}
{"id": "9208375", "title": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence for the involvement of the frontal lobes in depression.", "content": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence for the involvement of the frontal lobes in depression. The onset and reversibility of major depression is likely to be explained by diffuse neuromodulatory mechanisms rather than permanent abnormalities of connectivity and neurotransmission. However, the expression of mood state appears to involve fronto-striatal mechanisms. Lesions of the ventral frontal cortex give rise to profound modification of affect and behaviour not explained by effects on current intellectual function. These may represent the most extreme possible disturbances of emotional experience. Neuropsychological testing in major depression shows evidence of slowing in motor and cognitive domains with additional prominent effects on mnemonic function most marked in the elderly. Structural imaging with X-ray computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging in older patients with major depression shows evidence of structural abnormality compared with controls. These findings are not highly localizing but they tend to confirm the role of cognitive impairment as an important age-related risk factor for major depression. Perfusion or metabolic imaging reflects both reversible changes in function and permanent loss of active neurones. The usual finding has been reductions in anterior brain structures in major depression. Hypoperfusion tends to be greatest in frontal, temporal and parietal areas and most extensive in older (male) patients; high Hamilton scores tend to be associated with reduced uptake. There have also been correlations in the cingulate cortex between increased perfusion and other aspects of the mental state. In general, reductions in frontal areas may be more likely in patients with impoverished mental states. The more prominent impairments of memory are likely to be associated with the finding of impaired temporal function or with a more diffuse failure of neuromodulation."}
{"id": "9193383", "title": "Hypofrontality in schizophrenia: distributed dysfunctional circuits in neuroleptic-na\u00efve patients.", "content": "Hypofrontality in schizophrenia: distributed dysfunctional circuits in neuroleptic-na\u00efve patients. There have been reports that patients with schizophrenia have decreased metabolic activity in prefrontal cortex. However, findings have been confounded by medication effects, chronic illness, and difficulties of measurement. We aimed to address these problems by examination of cerebral blood flow with positron emission tomography (PET). We studied 17 neuroleptic-na\u00efve patients at the early stages of illness by means of image analysis and statistical methods that can detect abnormalities at the gyral level. An initial omnibus test with a randomisation analysis indicated that patients differed from normal controls at the 0.06 level. In the follow-up analysis, three separate prefrontal regions had decreased perfusion (lateral, orbital, medial), as well as regions in inferior temporal and parietal cortex that are known to be anatomically connected. Regions with increased perfusion were also identified (eg, thalamus, cerebellum, retrosplenial cingulate), which suggests an imbalance in distributed cortical and subcortical circuits. These distributed dysfunctional circuits may form the neural basis of schizophrenia through cognitive impairment of the brain, which prevents it from processing input efficiently and producing output effectively, thereby leading to symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions, and loss of volition."}
{"id": "9189143", "title": "Reduction of cerebellar glucose metabolism in advanced Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Reduction of cerebellar glucose metabolism in advanced Alzheimer's disease. Although regional cerebral metabolism and blood flow in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been studied extensively with PET and SPECT, few reports have been concerned with cerebellar metabolism or perfusion in Alzheimer's disease. To evaluate cerebellar glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease patients, we studied the cerebellar and cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) using 2[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18F-FDG) and PET. Sixty-eight patients with Alzheimer's disease and 13 age-matched normal control subjects were examined. According to scores obtained on the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer's disease patients were classified into three groups: severe (n = 9), moderate (n = 33) and mild (n = 26). The cerebellar glucose metabolism in the severe Alzheimer's disease group was significantly lower (cerebellar glucose metabolism: 5.71 +/- 0.62 mg/100 g/min) than that of the control group (6.85 +/- 0.66 mg/100 g/min), while temporal and parietal CMRglc were much more decreased. The cerebellar glucose metabolism in the mild and moderate Alzheimer's disease groups also showed lower levels than that of the control group, but the differences did not reach significant levels. Like other cortical CMRglc, the cerebellar glucose metabolism correlated with cognitive impairments. In severe Alzheimer's disease, cerebellar glucose metabolism is significantly reduced. The method of analysis using normalization of regional metabolic data to cerebellar values may be liable to err in severe Alzheimer's disease patients."}
{"id": "9188018", "title": "Normal-pressure hydrocephalus with misleading features of irreversible dementias: a case report.", "content": "Normal-pressure hydrocephalus with misleading features of irreversible dementias: a case report. An 85-year-old man presented with the clinical triad (gait instability, dementia, and bladder and bowel incontinence), the ventriculomegaly, and the normal CSF pressure that characterize normal-pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). Diagnostic uncertainty was raised by an unusually rapid onset and a lack of initial response to CSF tap tests. Additionally, periodic sharp waves on EEG suggested the possibility of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrated a pattern of cerebral hypometabolism typical of Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, the diagnosis of NPH was supported by delayed improvement following CSF tap tests, and it was confirmed by a dramatic clinical recovery after CSF shunting, resolution of the EEG and PET abnormalities, and a normal brain biopsy. NPH remains one of the few reversible causes of dementia, and the presence of its core features, regardless of rate of onset or ancillary test results, warrants careful consideration of therapeutic intervention."}
{"id": "9186804", "title": "Brain hypometabolism of glucose in low-weight depressed patients and in anorectic patients: a consequence of starvation?", "content": "Brain hypometabolism of glucose in low-weight depressed patients and in anorectic patients: a consequence of starvation? As low-weight anorectic patients presented a global as well as a regional absolute hypometabolism of glucose, we investigated a population of ten age- and sex-matched low-weight depressed patients without anorexia nervosa to evaluate the impact of weight loss on cerebral glucose metabolism evaluated by positron emission tomography and [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose. Ten age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers were used as controls. Absolute global and regional glucose activity was significantly lower in anorectic and low weight depressed patients than in control subjects. Anorectic patients compared with normal control subjects also showed lower relative metabolism of glucose in the parietal cortex. Within patients, absolute hypometabolism of glucose seems to be a consequence of low-weight while there is a positive correlation between absolute metabolism of glucose and body mass index."}
{"id": "9170449", "title": "Cerebral metabolic differences in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases matched for dementia severity.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic differences in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases matched for dementia severity. Despite controversial clinicopathological distinctions between Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), similar patterns of metabolic reduction in the posterior brain were reported previously using PET with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose. The current study was designed to examine more specific regional differences in cerebral glucose metabolism between PDD and AD using accurate and objective brain mapping techniques. This study included nine normal subjects, nine PDD patients and nine AD patients. PDD and AD groups were matched carefully for age, sex and general dementia severity as measured by Mini-Mental State Examination and Clinical Dementia Rating scales. Each subject underwent [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-PET and neuropsychological testing. After anatomic standardization of PET image sets and stereotactic data extraction, absolute and normalized cerebral metabolic rates were assessed by region of interest and pixel-by-pixel analyses. PDD and AD showed global glucose metabolic reduction with similar regional accentuation involving the lateral parietal, lateral temporal and lateral frontal association cortices and posterior cingulate cortex in comparison to normal controls. When comparing between PDD and AD, however, PDD showed greater metabolic reduction in the visual cortex and relatively preserved metabolism in the medial temporal cortex. Although a common feature of metabolic abnormalities in the posterior brain exists in PDD and AD, the presence of regional metabolic differences suggests different degrees and combinations of disease specific underlying pathological and neurochemical processes."}
{"id": "9161470", "title": "Blood pressure and dementia in the elderly: epidemiologic perspectives.", "content": "Blood pressure and dementia in the elderly: epidemiologic perspectives. High blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of vascular dementia as a result of ischemic stroke and other cerebrovascular events or lesions. However, there is insufficient epidemiologic evidence indicating that blood pressure is involved in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Clinical studies suggest that episodes of hypotension may cause cerebral hypoperfusion and play a role in the development of dementia. Lowering of blood pressure in dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease, may be due to the dementia process itself or to the characteristics of the disease. Recent large clinical trials have shown that antihypertensive drugs may not significantly affect cognitive performance, but no data are available regarding their potential effects in decreasing the risk of dementia by lowering the incidence of cerebrovascular events. Some data suggest that the blood pressure-dementia relationship may be age-dependent."}
{"id": "9153522", "title": "Atrophy of the corpus callosum, cognitive impairment, and cortical hypometabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Atrophy of the corpus callosum, cognitive impairment, and cortical hypometabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy. Recent studies disclosed neurofibrillary degeneration in layer 3 of the association cortex in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. This lesion may be associated with corpus callosum atrophy and may impair the function of cortical regions indispensable for complex cognitive activity. To investigate whether corpus callosum atrophy is associated with cognitive impairment and cerebral cortical hypometabolism, we studied 10 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy using magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose as a tracer. Compared with 23 age-matched control subjects, the patients had significantly decreased callosal area-skull area ratios, with anterior predominance of the degree of atrophy. The corpus callosum atrophy was accompanied by a decreased mean cortical glucose metabolic rate, predominantly in the frontal region of the cortex, and poor performance on the picture arrangement subtest of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and the verbal fluency task. We conclude that corpus callosum atrophy with anterior predominance is present in progressive supranuclear palsy, and that this atrophy is associated with cognitive impairment and cerebral cortical hypometabolism, especially in the frontal cortical region. Corpus callosum atrophy may reflect the pathological changes in the cerebral cortex, accentuated in the frontal region, that contribute to the development of frontal lobe dysfunction in this disease."}
{"id": "9143472", "title": "Brain perfusion scintigraphy with 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT single-photon emission tomography in dementia of the Alzheimer-type and diffuse Lewy body disease.", "content": "Brain perfusion scintigraphy with 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT single-photon emission tomography in dementia of the Alzheimer-type and diffuse Lewy body disease. Dementia of the Alzheimer-type (DAT) is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, variably combined with frontal lobe release signs, parkinsonian symptoms and myoclonus. The features of diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), the second most common cause of degenerative dementia, include progressive cognitive deterioration, often associated with levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, fluctuations of cognitive and motor functions, psychotic symptoms (visual and auditory hallucinations, depression), hypersensitivity to neuroleptics and orthostatic hypotension. A recent report suggests that positron emission tomography studies in patients with degenerative dementia may be useful in the differential diagnosis of DAT and DLBD. However, the diagnostic role of single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies remains to be established. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate regional cerebral perfusion [with either technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) or 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) SPET] and striatal dopamine transporter density [using iodine-123 2 beta-carboxymethoxy-3 beta-[4-iodophenyl]tropane (123I-beta-CIT) SPET] in patients with DAT and DLBD. Six patients with probable DAT and seven patients with probable DLBD were studied. Blinded qualitative assessment by four independent raters of 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD SPET studies revealed bilateral temporal and/or parietal hypoperfusion in all DAT patients. There was additional frontal hypoperfusion in two patients and occipital hypoperfusion in one patient. In the DLBD group, regional cerebral perfusion had a different pattern. In addition to temporoparietal hypoperfusion there was occipital hypoperfusion resembling a horseshoe defect in six of seven patients. In the DAT group, the mean 3-h striatal/cerebellar ratio of 123I-beta-CIT binding was 2.5 +/- 0.4, with an increase to 5.5 +/- 1.1 18 h after tracer injection. In comparison, in the DLBD patients the mean 3-h striatal/cerebellar ratio of 123I-beta-CIT binding was significantly reduced to 1.7 +/- 0.3, with a modest increase to 2.1 +/- 0.4 18 h after tracer injection (P < 0.05, Scheffe test, ANOVA). These results suggest that 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT SPET may contribute to the differential diagnosis between DAT and DLBD, showing different perfusion patterns and more severe impairment of dopamine transporter function in DLBD than in DAT."}
{"id": "9126060", "title": "Clinicopathological features of familial Alzheimer's disease associated with the M139V mutation in the presenilin 1 gene. Pedigree but not mutation specific age at onset provides evidence for a further genetic factor.", "content": "Clinicopathological features of familial Alzheimer's disease associated with the M139V mutation in the presenilin 1 gene. Pedigree but not mutation specific age at onset provides evidence for a further genetic factor. Sixteen affected individuals are described from two families with early onset autosomal dominant familial Alzheimer's disease. A mutation at codon 139 in the presenilin 1 gene on chromosome 14 results in a methionine to valine substitution which cosegregates with the disease in these families. Onset of dementia was before the age of 50 years in all individuals. The ages at onset within each family were tightly clustered but were significantly different between the families; this difference could not be accounted for by apolipoprotein E status and suggests the existence of a further genetic factor that modifies age at disease onset. The pattern of cognitive decline was similar in both families: early memory loss (initially selective for verbal memory in some individuals) was followed soon after by loss of arithmetic skills while naming and object perception skills were relatively preserved. A speech production deficit was observed in three members of one family but not in the other. Seizures were common and usually predated by myoclonic jerks by a number of years. Serial MRIs showed progressive cortical atrophy with periventricular white matter change appearing 3-4 years into the disease. PET revealed parieto-temporal hypometabolism in all individuals scanned. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease was confirmed with typical histopathology in one individual from each family."}
{"id": "9117380", "title": "Imaging and epilepsy.", "content": "Imaging and epilepsy. MRI has been applied to the investigation of epilepsy for 12 years. The principle role of MRI is in the definition of structural abnormalities that underly seizure disorders. Hippocampal sclerosis may be reliably identified, quantitative studies are useful for research and, in equivocal cases, for clinical purposes. A range of malformations of cortical development (MCD) may be determined. In patients with refractory partial seizures who are candidates for surgical treatment, a relevant abnormality is identifiable using MRI in 85%, it is likely that subtle MCD or gliosis accounts for the majority of the remainder. The proportion of cryptogenic cases will decrease with improvements in MRI hardware, signal acquisition techniques and post-processing methodologies. Functional MRI is used to identify the cerebral areas that are responsible for specific cognitive processes, and is of importance in planning resections close to eloquent cortical areas. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provides a means of investigating cerebral metabolites and some neurotransmitters, non-invasively. The concentrations of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA), creatine and choline-containing compounds may be estimated using proton MRS. Reduction of the ratio of NAA/(creatine+choline) is a feature of cerebral regions that include epileptic foci. Cerebral concentrations of GABA and glutamate, and the effects of antiepileptic drugs on these, may be estimated. Concentrations of high energy phosphate compounds, inorganic phosphate and pH may be assessed using 31P-MRS. In general, epileptic foci are associated with an increase in pH, increased inorganic phosphate and decreased phosphate monoesters. Carbon-13 spectroscopy promises to be a useful method for investigating cerebral metabolism in vivo. PET may provide data on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), glucose metabolism and the binding of specific ligands to receptors. Correlation of functional and structural imaging data is necessary for adequate interpretation. The hallmark of an epileptic focus is an area of reduced glucose metabolism, identified using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG), that is commonly more extensive than the underlying anatomical abnormality. The clinical role of 18FDG-PET requires re-evaluation in the light of the advances in structural imaging with MRI. Specific ligands are used to investigate specific receptors. Benzodiazepine and opioid receptors have been studied most. Reduced benzodiazepine receptor binding is commonly seen at an epileptic focus, in a more restricted distribution than an area of hypometabolism. Focal increases and decreases in benzodiazepine receptor binding have been demonstrated in MCD in areas that appear normal on MRI, indicating the widespread nature of the abnormalities. It has been found that mu-opioid receptors are increased in temporal neocortex overlying mesial temporal epileptic foci. Dynamic studies of ligand-receptor binding are possible using PET, for example the release of cerebral endogenous opioids has been implied at the time of serial absences. The main use of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is to produce images reflecting rCBF. Interictal studies alone are not reliable. A strength of SPECT is the ability to obtain images related to rCBF at the time of seizures. Concomitant video-EEG recording is necessary. Ictal scans need to be considered in comparison with an interictal scan and an MRI. Interpretation must be cautious, but may yield data that is useful in the investigation of patients for possible surgical treatment."}
{"id": "9096096", "title": "Rapid rise in FDG uptake in an irradiated human tumour xenograft.", "content": "Rapid rise in FDG uptake in an irradiated human tumour xenograft. In order to investigate early changes in the glucose metabolism of irradiated tumours, tumour uptake of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (18FDG) was studied in human tumour xenografts. Three human tumour lines [ependymoblastoma (NNE), small cell lung cancer (GLS), and glioblastoma (KYG)] showing different radiosensitivities and incidences of radiation-induced apoptosis were subcutaneously transplanted into nude mice, and were irradiated at a single dose of 10 Gy. Then 0.5 mCi of 18FDG was intravenously administered 1 h before sacrifice. The animals were sacrificed at 2, 4 and 6 h following irradiation, and 18FDG accumulation in the tumours was examined. Before irradiation, GLS and KYG tumours showed significantly higher rates of 18FDG accumulation compared with NNE tumours (P <0.004 and P <0.001, respectively). NNE (the most radiosensitive tumour with the highest incidence of radiation-induced apoptosis), however, displayed a 2.3-fold higher rate of 18FDG accumulation at 2 h following irradiation compared with a non-irradiated group (P <0.01), and thereafter showed a plateau up to 6 h. The accumulation did not increase significantly in the other tumours with lower radiosensitivity and much less radiation-induced apoptosis. The rapidity of the increase in 18FDG accumulation in the most radiosensitive tumour line, occurring as early as 2 h following irradiation, suggests that the increase was independent of recovery phenomena following radiation damage."}
{"id": "9074396", "title": "No difference in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer disease and differing apolipoprotein E genotypes.", "content": "No difference in cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer disease and differing apolipoprotein E genotypes. Recent findings of a reduced cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRGlu) in at-risk relatives of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) who carry the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 allele suggest a causative role for the E4 isoform in cognitive changes that lead to AD. It is not known whether epsilon 4 allele-associated deficits exist in patients with clinical AD. To determine whether distinct patterns of cerebral hypometabolism exist in patients who carry the epsilon 4 allele. Information on the CMRGlu and APOE genotype was available for 46 patients at a memory disorders clinic: 31 patients were diagnosed as having probable AD, 3 demented patients did not meet criteria for AD, and 12 patients had mild memory complaints. Positron emission tomography with the use of 18F-fludeoxyglucose was used to calculate the CMRGlu in the frontal and temporoparietal regions of the cortex. Estimates were standardized to the sensorimotor area of the cortex. Linear regression models were constructed to relate the APOE genotype to the CMRGlu, adjusting for cognitive status (ie, the Mini-Mental State Examination score). Distinct patterns of the CMRGlu did not emerge for patients with different APOE genotypes. Bilateral deficits in the CMRGlu were found in the patients with AD. Left-right asymmetry was found in 8 of 12 patients with mild memory complaints: 7 of 8 had CMRGlu ratio less than 0.85 in the left side of the temporoparietal region of the cortex. The APOE epsilon 4 allele does not appear to be associated with specific deficits in brain metabolism in patients with AD despite evidence that the epsilon 4 allele is associated with preclinical alterations. This finding is consistent with previous epidemiologic results that have demonstrated a higher risk for AD in carriers of the epsilon 4 allele, but no change in the rate of progression of AD."}
{"id": "9065319", "title": "Imaging of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in Alzheimer's disease: effect of tacrine treatment.", "content": "Imaging of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in Alzheimer's disease: effect of tacrine treatment. Functional imaging techniques offer new possibilities for further understanding of changes in functional correlates of structural and biological changes in dementia disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). Regional disturbances in glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow are known to occur in AD brains and probably roughly correlate to changes in neurotransmitter activities. A proper estimate would be to visualize the neuroreceptors themselves. In this study the cholinergic nicotinic and muscarinic receptors were studied in brain by positron emission tomography (PET). The rate constant k2* (s) (-)11C-nicotine was significantly higher (+43%) in temporal cortex of AD patients compared to controls (p < 0.017) indicating a lower binding of 11C-nicotine in AD brains compared to controls. Treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (80 mg daily) during 3 months to AD patients resulted in a mean plasma concentration of 7.7 +/- 0.8 ng/ml and a corresponding inhibition of the cholinesterase activity in plasma by 34 +/- 5%. A significantly lower k2* (increased binding) for 11C-nicotine binding (-15%; p < 0.006) was obtained in the temporal cortex after 3 months of treatment compared to prior treatment. The muscarinic antagonist 11C-benztropine was used to visualize muscarinic receptors and the binding capacity of 11C-benztropine (KR) was found to be decreased in the temporal cortex after 3 months of tacrine treatment."}
{"id": "9055273", "title": "Persistent global amnesia following right thalamic stroke: an 11-year longitudinal study.", "content": "Persistent global amnesia following right thalamic stroke: an 11-year longitudinal study. The 11-year longitudinal study of a right-handed male patient, L. C., who suffered from a severe amnesic syndrome following a softening in the right thalamus, is reported. Memory impairment involving retrograde and long-term anterograde memory, both verbal and spatial, persisted without modification. Investigation revealed some residual implicit learning ability. Positron emission tomography studies in the resting state displayed a bilateral hypometabolism of the mesial frontal lobes. Evidence suggests that a lesion confined to the thalamus may not on its own account for severe amnesia; that involvement of other structures is necessary for severe amnesia to appear; and that a functional investigation should always be included in cases of small thalamic lesions before drawing conclusions about the structures responsible for a given deficit."}
{"id": "9041855", "title": "Functional effects of striatal dysfunction in Parkinson disease.", "content": "Functional effects of striatal dysfunction in Parkinson disease. Concepts of basal ganglia organization suggest structually and functionally segregated pathways that link putamen and caudate function to motor and cognitive performance, respectively. To investigate whether motor and cognitive impairment in Parkinson disease is attributable to selective disturbance in nigrostriatal, dopaminergic function and regional cerebral glucose metabolism. Twenty patients with probable Parkinson disease underwent positron emission tomographic measurements of dopaminergic, nigrostriatal function (positron emission tomography with fluorodopa F 18), regional glucose metabolism (positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18), memory testing, and evaluation of locomotor disability. Memory performance in the patient cohort strongly correlated with the individual disease duration and degree of locomotor disability (P < .05). Striatal uptake rates of fluorodopa F 18 were significantly reduced in all patients (P < .05) compared with those in normal control subjects, and putaminal rates correlated significantly with the patients' degree of locomotor disability (P < .01) but not with memory performance. In the patients with an advanced stage of disease, there was a significant correlation between reduced caudate uptake rates of fluorodopa F 18 and the patients' impairment in delayed recall performance of the memory task (P < .05) but not with the individual degree of locomotor disability. No changes were found for regional glucose metabolic rates in the patients compared with the controls. The present study provides evidence for the hypothesis that on the level of the striatum, motor impairment in Parkinson disease may be assigned to altered dopamine neuronal integrity in the putamen but not in the caudate, whereas memory impairment in the more advanced cases may be attributed to caudate but not putaminal dysfunction."}
{"id": "9016263", "title": "Association of premorbid intellectual function with cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease: implications for the cognitive reserve hypothesis.", "content": "Association of premorbid intellectual function with cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease: implications for the cognitive reserve hypothesis. Clinical heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease has been widely observed. One factor that may influence the expression of dementia in Alzheimer's disease is premorbid intellectual ability. It has been hypothesized that premorbid ability, as measured by educational experience, reflects a cognitive reserve that can affect the clinical expression of Alzheimer's disease. The authors investigated the relation between estimates of premorbid intellectual function and cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease to test the effect of differing levels of premorbid ability on neurophysiological dysfunction. In a resting state with eyes closed and ears occluded, 46 patients with Alzheimer's disease were evaluated with positron emission tomography and [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose to determine cerebral metabolism. Premorbid intellectual ability was assessed by a demographics-based IQ estimate and performance on a measure of word-reading ability. After the authors controlled for demographic characteristics and dementia severity, both estimates of premorbid intellectual ability were inversely correlated with cerebral metabolism in the prefrontal, pre-motor, and left superior parietal association regions. In addition, the performance-based estimate (i.e., reading ability) was inversely correlated with metabolism in the anterior cingulate, paracentral, right orbitofrontal, and left thalamic regions, after demographic and clinical variables were controlled for. The results suggest that higher levels of premorbid ability are associated with greater pathophysiological effects of Alzheimer's disease among patients of similar dementia severity levels. These findings provide support for a cognitive reserve that can alter the clinical expression of dementia and influence the neurophysiological heterogeneity observed in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9014454", "title": "[18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Parkinson's disease].", "content": "[18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Parkinson's disease]. Positron emission topographic studies on local cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease (PD) including our own data were reviewed. In our 18F-FDG PET studies, local or global metabolic change was not found in 9 patients with non-demented PD, with respect to 5 normal controls. Moreover, there was not an apparent difference between severe PD group (Hoehn-Yahr III-IV) and mild PD group (Hoehn-Yahr I-II). In other PD patients with dementia or autonomic failure, parietal dominant hypometabolism was found likely to those of Alzheimer disease, but lenticular nucleus was well preserved. Furthermore 18F-FDG PET findings of atypical parkinsonian syndromes, such as SND and PSP were reviewed. They showed relative hypometabolism in the basal ganglia in PET images. PET study with FDG provides a clue to differential diagnosis of parkinsonian patients."}
{"id": "9345500", "title": "Functional basis of memory impairment in multiple sclerosis: a[18F]FDG PET study.", "content": "Functional basis of memory impairment in multiple sclerosis: a[18F]FDG PET study. Structural neuroimaging has been used to correlate lesional patterns with the cognitive profile of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), especially for \"frontal\" dysfunction. However, a clear-cut anatomical explanation has yet to be found for the long-term memory deficit which is a hallmark of MS cognitive impairment. We have used PET to measure regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) in a group of 15 MS patients with involvement of verbal and/or spatial long-term memory. These patients were compared with 10 normal controls and 13 MS patients unimpaired on all neuropsychological tests. Relative to the controls, MS patients with memory deficits showed a significant bilateral reduction of rCMRglc in the hippocampus, cingulate gyrus, thalamus, associative occipital cortex, and cerebellum. Direct comparisons between patients with memory deficits and the group of unimpaired MS patients showed a metabolic reduction in the left thalamus and in both hippocampi. Seven of the memory-impaired patients also had neuropsychological signs of frontal dysfunction. These patients were compared with patients who had isolated memory deficit. Here we observed a further metabolic reduction in a number of brain regions including bilateral prefrontal cortex, inferior parietal cortex, and basal ganglia. Our findings indicate that hypometabolism of thalamic and deep cortical gray structures of the temporal lobe is associated with episodic memory dysfunction in MS. On the other hand, pathological performance on tests designed to assess frontal functions was associated with widespread reduction of glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "9116213", "title": "Brain cognition and metabolism in Down syndrome adults in association with development of dementia.", "content": "Brain cognition and metabolism in Down syndrome adults in association with development of dementia. To identify changes in brain functions associated with the development of dementia, brain metabolism and cognition were assessed repeatedly in 12 adults with Down syndrome (DS) using positron emission tomography and neuropsychological tests. Ten subjects remained non-demented (ND) and showed no significant changes over time in cognitive measures or in cerebral metabolism. Two subjects developed dementia after 7 years. Brain functions were relatively stable prior to the onset of dementia; after the onset of dementia, both cognitive function and glucose metabolism in parietal and temporal brain regions known to be vulnerable to Alzheimer disease (AD) showed a rapid linear decline. These findings support the concept that brain functions are stable over time in ND individuals with DS and that decline of brain functions in DS subjects with dementia follows two distinct phases that correspond to the clinical progression of AD. This may have implications for timing of new therapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "9081560", "title": "Gender differences in cortical glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease and normal aging.", "content": "Gender differences in cortical glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease and normal aging. Male Alzheimer's disease patients, studied with 18-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography while performing a verbal memory test, showed a right-greater-than-left asymmetry of cortical metabolism that tended to be greater than that in healthy, age-matched control subjects. This asymmetry was absent in female patients, preliminarily suggesting a propensity for left hemispheric involvement in the Alzheimer's disease process in males."}
{"id": "9010012", "title": "Striatal glucose metabolism and dopamine D2 receptor binding in asymptomatic gene carriers and patients with Huntington's disease.", "content": "Striatal glucose metabolism and dopamine D2 receptor binding in asymptomatic gene carriers and patients with Huntington's disease. We used PET scans with the tracers [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and [11C]raclopride (RACLO) to study glucose metabolism and dopamine D2 receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and putamen of 18 carriers of the Huntington's disease gene mutation (10 asymptomatic subjects and eight untreated symptomatic Huntington's disease patients in an early disease stage). We also performed MRI scans and measured the bicaudate ratio (BCR) in the same subjects. Data were compared with those from nine mutation-negative members of Huntington's disease families and separate groups of age matched controls. The PET scans were repeated 1.5-3 years later in six of the asymptomatic gene carriers. Symptomatic Huntington's disease patients showed a marked reduction of FDG and RACLO uptake in the caudate nucleus and putamen and a significant increase of BCR. Asymptomatic mutation carriers revealed significant hypometabolism in the caudate nucleus and putamen. The RACLO binding was significantly decreased in the putamen. Decrements of caudate nucleus tracer uptake, particularly RACLO, correlated significantly with BCR increases in both symptomatic and asymptomatic gene carriers. In asymptomatic carriers, metabolic and receptor binding decreases were also significantly associated with the CAG repeat number but not with the individual's age. Discriminant function analysis correctly classified clinical and genetic status in 24 of 27 subjects on the basis of their striatal PET values (83% sensitivity and 100% specificity). Three asymptomatic mutation carriers were classified/grouped together with mutation-negative subjects, indicating that these individuals had normal striatal RACLO and FDG uptake. Follow-up PET data from gene-positive subjects showed a significant reduction in the mean striatal RACLO binding of 6.3% per year. Striatal glucose metabolism revealed an overall non significant 2.3% decrease per year. These data indicate that asymptomatic Huntington's disease mutation carriers may show normal neuronal function for a long period of life. These findings also suggest that it may be possible to predict when an asymptomatic gene carrier will develop clinical symptoms from serial PET measurements of striatal function."}
{"id": "8997424", "title": "Application of PET in dementia disorders.", "content": "Application of PET in dementia disorders. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a valuable tool for understanding of functional correlates of biological and structural changes in brain of patients with various dementia diseases. As such it can provide valuable physiological correlates important for diagnosis, management and research of dementia disorders. A crucial question is whether PET is capable of early or preclinical detection of dementia. Longitudinal PET studies in Alzheimer families with chromosomal aberrations will be important for. Impairment of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism is a common feature in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The pattern of changes is distinct from other forms of dementia and correlates with neuropsychological impairments. Neuroreceptor studies have to be further applied as well as monitoring of drug treatment effects."}
{"id": "8994103", "title": "Slowly progressive anarthria with late anterior opercular syndrome: a variant form of frontal cortical atrophy syndromes.", "content": "Slowly progressive anarthria with late anterior opercular syndrome: a variant form of frontal cortical atrophy syndromes. We describe eight patients with slowly progressive speech production deficit combining speech apraxia, dysarthria, dysprosody and orofacial apraxia, and initially no other deficit in other language and non-language neuropsychological domains. Long-term follow-up (6-10 years) in 4 cases showed an evolution to muteness, bilateral suprabulbar paresis with automatic-voluntary dissociation and frontal lobe cognitive slowing without generalised intellectual deterioration. Most disabled patients presented with an anterior opercular syndrome (Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome), and pyramidal or extrapyramidal signs. CT and MRI findings disclosed asymmetric (left > right) progressive cortical atrophy of the frontal lobes predominating in the posterior inferior frontal region, notably the operculum. SPECT and PET revealed a decreased cerebral blood flow and metabolism, prominent in the left posterior-inferior frontal gyrus and premotor cortex, extending bilaterally in the most advanced cases. Pathological study of two cases showed non-specific neuronal loss, gliosis, and spongiosis of superficial cortical layers, mainly confined to the frontal lobes, with no significant abnormalities in the basal ganglia, thalamus, cerebellum, brain stem (except severe neuronal loss in the substantia nigra in one case), and spinal cord. We propose to call this peculiar syndrome Slowly Progressive Anarthria (SPA), based on its specific clinical presentation, and its metabolic and pathological correlates. SPA represents another clinical expression of focal cortical degeneration syndromes, that may overlap with other similar syndromes, specially primary progressive aphasia and the various frontal lobe dementias."}
{"id": "8976498", "title": "Increased regional cerebral glucose metabolism and semantic memory performance in Alzheimer's disease: a pilot double blind transdermal nicotine positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Increased regional cerebral glucose metabolism and semantic memory performance in Alzheimer's disease: a pilot double blind transdermal nicotine positron emission tomography study. Nicotinic receptor dysfunction and impaired semantic memory occur early in Alzheimer's disease patients (AD). Previous research implied that nicotine's ability to enhance alertness, arousal, and cognition in a number of nonclinical populations was a function of its ability to stimulate CNS nicotinic cholinergic receptors. In this study it was hypothesized that transdermal administration of nicotine would increase both regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) and semantic memory (as assessed by verbal fluency). Two mild AD and two elderly controls underwent positron emission tomography scanning during a double blind nicotinic agonist verbal fluency challenge procedure. rCMRglc increases occurred in both AD patients, but not controls. In the two AD patients, verbal fluency scores increased by an average of 17%. One elderly control's verbal fluency increased, and the other decreased. These findings suggest that nicotine's effect on metabolism and verbal fluency is due to its ability to stimulate the cholinergic system."}
{"id": "8966268", "title": "[Clinical and instrumental diagnosis of Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia].", "content": "[Clinical and instrumental diagnosis of Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia]. We investigated the possible correlation between functional and anatomical imaging techniques and clinical exams in patients with Alzheimer's and vascular dementia. We examined 24 patients affected with dementia, 16 of them with Alzheimer's disease. 7 with multiinfarct and 1 with mixed dementia. All patients were submitted to clinical, morphological (MRI, CT) and functional (SPECT, cerebral flowmetry) studies. The severity of hypoperfusion revealed by SPECT was highly correlated with cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's dementia patients. The abnormal perfusion was mostly bilateral, in the temporal-parietal region, and involved the frontal regions only in the most severe cases. CT and especially MRI showed aspecific cortical and subcortical atrophy, most evident in the medial temporal region. In the patients with multiinfarct dementia, the hypoperfused cortical regions revealed by SPECT were sometimes related to vascular lesions proved at MRI and CT. In the patients with multiinfarct dementia, MRI showed more or less apparent white matter lesions referrable to ischemic insult, besides cortical and subcortical atrophy. MRI allows a differential diagnosis between these two cerebral pathologic conditions of aging. Cerebral flowmetry by Xenon 133 inhalation showed reduced cerebral blood flow in both dementia types. In Alzheimer patients, regional flow was reduced especially in the posterior parietal regions. In multiinfarct dementia patients, flow was more diffusely reduced and asymmetrical. Brain function imaging appears to yield useful information for the differential diagnosis in the most common dementia syndromes. Since the neuropathologic data from brain biopsy are rarely available, clinical and instrumental findings must be integrated for diagnostic and pathogenetic insights of the diseases causing cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "8965193", "title": "Peptide T and glucose metabolism in AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "Peptide T and glucose metabolism in AIDS dementia complex. AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is the most common presenting neurologic manifestation of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection. We report FDG-PET studies in a 39-year-old man who had ADC and completed a 12-wk treatment protocol with 1.2 mg/day of intranasal peptide T, one before and one after 12 wk of treatment with peptide T. Peptide T is an octapeptide under investigation for treatment of ADC patients. Values of rCMRglc were converted to Z scores using the mean and standard deviation of values of rCMRglc in three HIV-seronegative matched controls, each of which was studied twice, at the beginning and end of a 12-wk interval. Thirty-five of 60 regions assayed showed Z scores with absolute values > or = 3 (considered abnormal) in the baseline study. Regions with high absolute values of Z scores were located in subcortical areas and in the limbic system, and to a lesser degree in the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes. Thirty-four of these 35 regions showed remission (decrease in the absolute values of Z scores) after treatment. Only one region showed no improvement in the second study. Three regions with absolute values of Z scores < 3 in the baseline study manifested Z scores with magnitudes > or = 3 in the second study. These preliminary observations suggest that functional neuroimaging techniques provide a useful tool in the evaluation of the response to treatment in ADC patients."}
{"id": "8965184", "title": "Abnormal cerebral glucose metabolism in HIV-1 seropositive subjects with and without dementia.", "content": "Abnormal cerebral glucose metabolism in HIV-1 seropositive subjects with and without dementia. This study was undertaken in order to extend our previous finding of relative basal ganglia hypermetabolism in AIDS dementia complex (ADC) and to develop clinically useful metabolic indices of CNS involvement in HIV-seropositive (HIV+) subjects. Twenty-one HIV+ subjects (11 with AIDS) underwent FDG-PET scanning; 12 had a follow-up scan at 6 mo and 4 had a third scan at 12 mo. Forty-three age-matched heterosexual volunteers served as controls. FDG-PET scanning was performed with arterial blood sampling, and scan data were analyzed using the Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM) with principal component analysis. SSM/principal component analysis of the combined (HIV+ and controls) FDG-PET dataset extracted two major disease-related metabolic components: (a) a nonspecific indicator of cerebral dysfunction, which was significantly correlated with age, cerebral atrophy and ADC stage and (b) the striatum, which was heavily weighted (relatively hypermetabolic) and appeared to provide a disease-specific measure of early CNS involvement. FDG-PET scans provide quantitative measures of abnormal functional connectivity in HIV-seropositives-with or without AIDS or ADC. These measures, which are robust across centers with respect to instrumentation, scanning technique and disease severity, appear to track the progression of CNS involvement in patients with subclinical neurologic or neuropsychologic dysfunction."}
{"id": "8947281", "title": "Cerebral metabolism in a case of multiple sclerosis with acute mental disorder.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism in a case of multiple sclerosis with acute mental disorder. Acute mental disorder in early Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is rare and little is known about the structural and metabolic changes in this relation. We present an MS patient with discrete motor and sensory deficits, who developed severe behavioral changes over a period of nine months during the initial course of the disease. The cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) was measured using positron emission tomography (PET), and the patient underwent MRI as well as a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests. Significantly reduced values of CMRglc were found bilaterally in the frontal and temporal cortex, the putamen, the thalamus and the hippocampus. The MRI revealed progression of MS lesions in the frontal lobes during the development of mental symptoms. Neuropsychological examination showed wide spread cognitive dysfunction, and a pronounced frontal lobe syndrome. The study demonstrates the remote metabolic effects of lesions affecting subcortical neural connections in an MS patient with severe cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "8912900", "title": "Evidence for physiological down-regulation of brain oxidative phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Evidence for physiological down-regulation of brain oxidative phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease. In vivo imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in brain glucose metabolism and blood flow in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. These reductions likely follow regional synaptic loss or dysfunction and reflect physiological down-regulation of gene expression for glucose delivery, oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), and energy consumption in brain. Indeed, the pattern of down-regulation of expression for both mitochondrial and nuclear genes coding for subunits of OXPHOS enzymes in the Alzheimer brain resembles the pattern of down-regulation in normal brain caused by chronic sensory deprivation. In both cases, down-regulation likely is mediated by changes in transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulatory factors. Physiological down-regulation of OXPHOS gene expression in Alzheimer's is consistent with PET evidence that cognitive or psychophysical activation of mildly to moderately demented Alzheimer's patients can augment brain-blood flow and glucose metabolism to the same extent as in control subjects. If the primary neuronal defect that leads to reduced brain energy demand in Alzheimer's disease could be prevented or treated, brain glucose transport and OXPHOS enzyme activities might recover to normal levels."}
{"id": "8890778", "title": "Progressive biparietal atrophy: an atypical presentation of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Progressive biparietal atrophy: an atypical presentation of Alzheimer's disease. To define the clinical, neuropsychological, and radiological features of bilateral parietal lobe atrophy. Four patients underwent a comprehensive longitudinal neuropsychological assessment, as well as MRI and HMPAO-SPECT. The consistent findings in the patients were early visuospatial problems, agraphia of a predominantly peripheral (or apraxic) type, and difficulty with bimanual tasks, all of which outweighted deficits in memory and language until later in the course of the illness. As the disease progressed, impairments in the phonological aspects of language and in auditory-verbal short term memory were often striking, perhaps reflecting spread from the parietal lobe to perisylvian language areas. Three patients went on to develop a global dementia and fulfilled the criteria for a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease; the fourth patient has only recently been identified. Neuroimaging disclosed bilateral parietal lobe atrophy (MRI) and hypoperfusion (SPECT), which was out of proportion to that seen elsewhere in the brain. One patient has died and had pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease with particular concentration in both superior parietal lobes. Bilateral biparietal atrophy is a recognisable clinical syndrome which can be the presenting feature of Alzheimer's disease. Although the label \"posterior cortical atrophy\" has been applied to such cases, review of the medical literature suggests that this broad rubric actually consists of two main clinical syndromes with features reflecting involvement of the occipitotemporal (ventral) and biparietal (dorsal) cortical areas respectively."}
{"id": "8880694", "title": "Propentofylline improves regional cerebral glucose metabolism and neuropsychologic performance in vascular dementia.", "content": "Propentofylline improves regional cerebral glucose metabolism and neuropsychologic performance in vascular dementia. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in thirty patients with mild to moderate vascular dementia (VD) according to DSM-III-R criteria, the effects of the adenosine uptake blocker propentofylline (HWA 285) on regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGl) was studied using positron emission tomography of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). 25 subjects completed the 3-months study. Propentofylline significantly improved relative rCMRGl in the motor cortex, while relative rCMRGl in the placebo treated group worsened significantly. Neuropsychologically, visual information processing was improved in the propentofylline group and we observed a trend towards a slowing of the progression of cognitive deterioration in patients with VD. The results of the longitudinal analysis showed further that neuropsychological and metabolic changes are closely related. These findings justify a large-scale clinical trial to prove therapeutic efficacy."}
{"id": "8876777", "title": "Positron emission tomography metabolic data corrected for cortical atrophy using magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Positron emission tomography metabolic data corrected for cortical atrophy using magnetic resonance imaging. The correct interpretation of clinical positron emission tomography (PET) data depends largely on the physical limits of the PET scanner. The partial volume effect (PVE) is related to the size of the studied object compared to the spatial resolution. It represents one of the most important limiting factors in quantitative data analysis. This effect is increased in the case of atrophy, as in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), and it influences measurement of the metabolic reduction generally seen in cerebral degeneration. In this case, interpretation can be biased, because cortical activity will be underestimated due to the atrophy. In general, anatomical images of AD patients have shown diffuse atrophy, while PET studies have found widespread hypometabolism affecting the parietal and temporal lobes. Although hypometabolic areas usually correspond to atrophic regions, they also occur without such changes. Thus, the aim is to differentiate authentic hypometabolism (decrease of glucose consumption per unit volume of gray matter) from that due to PVE from atrophy (cell loss). Consequently, we are using a method for three-dimensional (3D) correction of human PET data with 3D magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We measured atrophy and metabolism by using both T1-weighted MR images and high and medium resolution PET scans. We injected 12 patients and controls with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose for glucose consumption measurements. Atrophy was estimated in the following way. We isolated the cerebral structures, using a segmentation technique on the MRI scans, into gray matter (GM), white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid. We superimposed the PET images onto the MR images to obtain anatomo-functional correlations. We degraded the segmented MR images to the resolution of the PET images by a convolution process to create a PET image correction map. We corrected the metabolic PET data for the PVE. We studied the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose in the GM where metabolic variation is the most relevant to AD. By dealing with problems relating to the sensitivity to the segmentation and to the PET-MRI coregistration, computation of MRI convolution processes provided the degree of PVE on a pixel-by-pixel basis, allowing correction of hypometabolisms contained in GM PET values. Global cortical metabolism increased after correction for PVE by, on average, 29 and 24% for tomographs acquired with medium (TTV03 LETI) and high (ECAT 953B CTI/Siemens) resolution, respectively, whereas the cortical metabolism increased by 75 and 65% for the respective tomographs in AD patients. The difference of metabolism between scans after correction for PVE was less than before correction, decreasing from 31 to 17%. This difference was most marked in the frontal and temporal lobes. Fusion imaging allowed correction for PVE in metabolic data using 3D MRI and determination of whether a change in the apparent radiotracer concentration in PET data reflected an alteration in GM volume, a change in radiotracer concentration per unit volume of GM, or both."}
{"id": "8876027", "title": "Persisting changes in brain glucose uptake following neurotoxic doses of phencyclidine which mirror the acute effects of the drug.", "content": "Persisting changes in brain glucose uptake following neurotoxic doses of phencyclidine which mirror the acute effects of the drug. Phencyclidine (PCP) can induce a model psychosis which has a number of similarities to dementias and schizophrenia. In some cases the psychosis persists for prolonged periods after drug discontinuation. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists such as PCP induce increases in glucose metabolism in a variety of brain structures but most notably in limbic regions such as retrosplenial, piriform, and entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, and olfactory tubercle. When given continuously for several days, these NMDA antagonists induced neural degeneration in these same critical limbic areas. In the present study regional 2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake was measured in rats at both 24 h and 10 days after neurotoxic, 5-day \"binge\" PCP administration. At 24 h after minipump removal there were persisting and large increases in glucose uptake in many brain regions, with maximal changes in the same limbic structures in which neurotoxicity has been observed. Surprisingly, many of these regions still showed elevated glucose metabolism after 10 days of recovery. These findings suggest an anatomical and neurochemical substrate for the persisting psychosis which can occur following PCP."}
{"id": "8873880", "title": "A case of late-onset psychosis: integrating neuropsychological and SPECT data.", "content": "A case of late-onset psychosis: integrating neuropsychological and SPECT data. We report the case of a 67-year-old woman who experienced a sudden onset of psychotic illness (i.e., prominent delusions and hallucinations) that has endured for approximately 3 years. As part of her neurobehavioral work-up, a SPECT scan revealed right frontal and left anterior temporal-lobe hypoperfusion. Serial neuropsychological evaluations obtained 2 years apart demonstrated a steady decline on tests of executive control (monitoring, allocation of attention, perseveration) and visuospatial abilities, whereas performance in other areas of cognitive functioning have remained steady and in the normal range for the patient's age. Over this same period of time, serial EEG, MRI, and neurology examinations have been within normal limits. Thus, there was little evidence with which to diagnose dementia. It is suggested that concomitant impairment in executive control, coupled with a degraded capacity to process perceptual information, can give rise to enduring psychotic behavior."}
{"id": "8872413", "title": "Cerebral metabolic changes in Alzheimer's disease: neurobehavioral patterns.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic changes in Alzheimer's disease: neurobehavioral patterns. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was surveyed in 37 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and 21 normal controls using positron emission tomography. Where possible, brain regions were specified according to their neurobehavioral function rather than as anatomically demarcated structures. Absolute metabolic values revealed significant differences (p < 0.05) between AD patients and controls for whole brain and the more superior supratentorial brain slices. Normalized values (region/brain stem) showed the most striking declines (p < 0.001) in the association cortex (heteromodal region -21%; unimodal region -19%) and the primary sensory-motor cortex (-13%), with motor, auditory, and visual areas more affected than somatosensory areas. Limbic and paralimbic systems were equally affected (-14%; -11%; p < 0.001). Thalamus, striatum, cerebellum and brain stem were minimally or not affected. Neurobehaviorally defined hypometabolic regions largely parallel affected areas noted in anatomic and previous metabolic studies, with the possible exception of metabolic deficits in the primary sensory-motor complex. Conceivably, brain areas unaffected morphologically by the pathophysiological processes of AD may become dysfunctional due to a disruption of connectivity between regions."}
{"id": "8866684", "title": "Isolated amnesia with slow onset and stable course, without ensuing dementia: MRI and PET data and a six-year neuropsychological follow-up.", "content": "Isolated amnesia with slow onset and stable course, without ensuing dementia: MRI and PET data and a six-year neuropsychological follow-up. Patient EDS presented with an amnesic disorder of insidious onset (4 years) that remained stable and restricted to memory functions over a 10-year course. Repeated neuropsychological evaluations over 6 years showed a moderate-to-severe, stable impairment of long-term memory and of memory for public events, and a milder, stable impairment of autobiographic memory and of short-term memory. Language, perception, praxis and 'frontal' functions were fully preserved. MRI showed atrophy of the right hippocampus, of the right mammillary body and of the sylvian fissure (bilaterally, but more marked on the left). On PET scan, metabolic activity in the mesial temporal structures was significantly reduced on the right and was at lower normal levels on the left. The disorder observed in EDS is similar to that recently reported in other patients. Possible etiologies of the selective amnesia observed in EDS are considered and their implications discussed."}
{"id": "8854305", "title": "Local cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with long-term behavioral and cognitive deficits following mild traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Local cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with long-term behavioral and cognitive deficits following mild traumatic brain injury. A retrospective study of 20 patients with mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) examined brain regions of interest by comparing [18F]-2-deoxyglucose PET, neuropsychological test results, and continuing behavioral dysfunction. Abnormal local cerebral metabolic rates (rLCMs) were most prominent in midtemporal, anterior cingulate, precuneus, anterior temporal, frontal white, and corpus callosum brain regions. Abnormal rLCMs were significantly correlated statistically with 1) overall clinical complaints, most specifically with inconsistent attention/concentration and 2) overall neuropsychological test results. The authors conclude that 1) even mild TBI may result in continuing brain behavioral deficits; 2) PET can help elucidate dysfunctional brain circuitry in neurobehavioral disorders; and 3) specific brain areas may correlate with deficits in daily neurobehavioral functioning and neuropsychological test findings."}
{"id": "8841965", "title": "Vascular dementia: perfusional and metabolic disturbances and effects of therapy.", "content": "Vascular dementia: perfusional and metabolic disturbances and effects of therapy. Positron emission tomography (PET) has elucidated basic pathophysiological mechanism that produce the cognitive decline in vascular dementia (VD). The typical pattern of glucose metabolism seen in VD with scattered areas of focal cortical and subcortical hypometabolism differs from that in AD with marked hypometabolism affecting the association areas. The total volume of metabolically inactive tissue is significantly related to severity of dementia. Rather than the quantity of tissue destruction, the critical effect may be the quantity of cortical hypometabolism caused by subcortically induced disconnection. Studies with HMPAO SPECT have shown focal deficits in VD and AD patients that are comparable to those seen with FDG PET. In mildly demented patients performance for the classification AD versus VD is much better by PET because it might be more sensitive for imaging small functional pathological changes. A longitudinal analysis of rCMRGl in VD showed that the progression of dementia can be delayed by the adenosine uptake blocker propentofylline and that neuropsychological and metabolic changes are closely related."}
{"id": "8831432", "title": "Preferential metabolic involvement of visual cortical areas in a subtype of Alzheimer's disease: clinical implications.", "content": "Preferential metabolic involvement of visual cortical areas in a subtype of Alzheimer's disease: clinical implications. A subgroup of patients with Alzheimer's disease present with visual disturbances at onset. This study investigated whether specific cortical networks associated with visual processes are preferentially affected in this subgroup and determined the clinical implications of such abnormalities. Regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates were assessed with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, and general intellectual functions, memory, and visual skills were measured with cognitive tests in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease-10 with and 22 without prominent visual symptoms-and in 25 healthy comparison subjects. Both patient groups showed reduced glucose metabolism in parietal regions and in middle and superior temporal regions in comparison with the healthy subjects. The Alzheimer's disease patients without visual symptoms also showed reductions in inferior temporal, frontal, and limbic structures, as is typical of Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, the patients with visual symptoms had larger metabolic deficits than the patients without visual symptoms in the parietal and occipital cortices (including the primary visual cortex), with a relative sparing of inferior temporal, frontal, and limbic regions. Consistently, the patients with visual symptoms had significantly greater visuospatial deficits and less severe memory impairments than the patients without visual symptoms. Alzheimer's disease patients with visuospatial deficits who are studied while alive have a distinctive regional distribution of cerebral metabolic impairment that is related to specific cognitive deficits and that distinguishes them from patients with typical Alzheimer's disease. These findings imply that regional variations in brain dysfunction can occur in Alzheimer's disease, with differential involvement of cortical systems resulting in distinctive clinical subgroups."}
{"id": "8814736", "title": "A human friendly reporting and database system for brain PET analysis.", "content": "A human friendly reporting and database system for brain PET analysis. We have developed a human friendly reporting and database system for clinical brain PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scans, which enables statistical data analysis on qualitative information obtained from image interpretation. Our system consists of a Brain PET Data (Input) Tool and Report Writing Tool. In the Brain PET Data Tool, findings and interpretations are input by selecting menu icons in a window panel instead of writing a free text. This method of input enables on-line data entry into and update of the database by means of pre-defined consistent words, which facilitates statistical data analysis. The Report Writing Tool generates a one page report of natural English sentences semi-automatically by using the above input information and the patient information obtained from our PET center's main database. It also has a keyword selection function from the report text so that we can save a set of keywords on the database for further analysis. By means of this system, we can store the data related to patient information and visual interpretation of the PET examination while writing clinical reports in daily work. The database files in our system can be accessed by means of commercially available databases. We have used the 4th Dimension database that runs on a Macintosh computer and analyzed 95 cases of 18F-FDG brain PET studies. The results showed high specificity of parietal hypometabolism for Alzheimer's patients."}
{"id": "8797244", "title": "Cortical glucose metabolism in psychiatric wandering patients with vascular dementia.", "content": "Cortical glucose metabolism in psychiatric wandering patients with vascular dementia. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) in 18 patients with vascular dementia (VD) and 15 age-matched normal subjects was measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and the 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose technique. Nine of the 18 VD patients manifested abnormal wandering behavior with some psychiatric symptoms: they showed relatively spared CMRglc, which was higher than that of nonwandering patients, especially in the bilateral frontal lobes, left parietal lobe, left temporo-parieto-occipital region, left occipital lobe, and cerebellum. The results suggest that psychiatric wandering behavior of patients with VD could be correlated with partial sparing of CMRglc in the regions listed above."}
{"id": "8787151", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism and postmortem pathology in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism and postmortem pathology in Alzheimer's disease. In four patients with an antemortem diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGl) was studied prospectively by positron emission tomography (PET) and compared with postmortem semiquantitative neuropathology. The interval between the last PET study and autopsy was 1.3 +/- 0.8 years. In comparison with age-matched controls, the AD patients showed predominant temporoparietal hypometabolism spreading to other cortical and subcortical regions during serial PET scans. All patients had neuropathological findings typical for AD. There was a significant relationship between rCMRGl and density of senile plaques (SP) in one patient (tau b = -0.86, P < 0.05). SP were distributed quite homogeneously in all regions examined. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) were concentrated focally in the hippocampus-amygdala-entorhinal complex. In the context of widespread developing cortical hypometabolism, the predilection of NFT for involvement in limbic areas suggests a disruption of projection neurons as the pathogenetic process of cortical dysfunction."}
{"id": "8781138", "title": "Vascular dementia of Binswanger's type: clinical, neuroradiological and 99mTc-HMPAO SPET study.", "content": "Vascular dementia of Binswanger's type: clinical, neuroradiological and 99mTc-HMPAO SPET study. In 24 patients with vascular dementia of Binswanger's type (VDBT) and 14 age-matched neurologically normal volunteers, we investigated the relationship between clinical features, white matter lesions (leuco-araiosis) and cerebral atrophy on computed tomographic (CT) scan, and regional cerebral blood flow. All subjects underwent the Mini-Mental State Examination of Taiwan, version 1 (MMSE-T1), for assessing the severity of cognitive impairment. The patients were subdivided into two groups, one with mild to moderate (group I, MMSE-T1 scores: 11-24, n=11), and the other with severe dementia (group II, MMSE-T1 scores: below 10, n=13). White matter degeneration was evaluated with densitometric methods. Loss of brain parenchyma was estimated with seven linear measurements (Evan's ratio, third ventricle ratio, width of temporal horn tip, anterior-posterior length of temporal horn, anterior-posterior length of Sylvian fissure and width of frontal interhemispheric fissure) by CT scans. Regional cerebral blood flow was determined with technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) single-photon emission tomography (SPET). In neuroimaging studies, subcortical leuco-araiosis was localized at the frontal region in group I patients and scattered diffusely in group II patients. 99mTc-HMPAO SPET analysis revealed reduction of regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobe in group I patients and widespread reduction of regional cerebral blood flow in group II patients. A correlation between frontal leuco-araiosis and perfusion defect of the frontal pole was demonstrated in group I patients, showing findings typical of subcortical dementia. There was no difference in frontal atrophic measurements between group I patients and controls. Ratios of volumes of lost brain parenchyma and leuco-araiosis were significantly higher in group II patients than in the age-matched controls, corresponding to a diffuse cerebral perfusion defect. These results suggest that patients with VDBT have early frontal lobe involvement with posterior progression. Patients with mild VDBT are more likely to show reduction of frontal cerebral blood flow and leuco-araiosis, while those with severe VDBT are more likely to have diffuse leuco-araiosis, cerebral hypoperfusion and brain atrophy."}
{"id": "8774410", "title": "Non-ketotic hyperglycaemic chorea: a SPECT study.", "content": "Non-ketotic hyperglycaemic chorea: a SPECT study. To study regional blood flow of the striatum in non-ketotic hyperglycaemic choreic patients. Brain SPECT was performed with intravenous injection of 20 mCi 99mTc hexamethylpropylene amineoxime in six non-ketotic hyperglycaemic choreic patients and 10 age matched patients with a similar level of hyperglycaemia without chorea as a control. The focal perfusion defects were analysed by visual interpretation and semiquantitative determination with reference to homolateral occipital blood flow. The measured blood flow of striatum on the contralateral side of chorea was significantly decreased. Hypometabolism of the striatum is seen not only in Huntington's disease, but also in non-ketotic hyperglycaemic chorea. Hypofunction of the striatum is a possible common pathogenesis in the development of contralateral chorea in different diseases. Furthermore, the sensitivity and reliability of SPECT is as good as PET in assessing choreic patients."}
{"id": "8761863", "title": "Interpretation variability of 18FDG-positron emission tomography studies in dementia.", "content": "Interpretation variability of 18FDG-positron emission tomography studies in dementia. Functional imaging studies such as 18F-fluoro-18-labeled-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET) are being used increasingly in the evaluation of patients with dementia. The authors evaluate inter- and intraobserver interpretation agreement in a diverse group of patients with clinically diagnosed dementia and subjective memory complaints, as well as two healthy control subjects. Ninety-six patients with clinical diagnoses of probable Alzheimer's disease (n = 18), possible Alzheimer's disease (n = 33), dementia (n = 26), and mild memory impairment (n = 17), as well as two healthy control subjects were studied using 18FDG-PET. Three observers graded all studies for regional 18FDG uptake in the temporal, parietal, and frontal regions bilaterally. The studies also were interpreted for the presence of bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism, which typically is present in Alzheimer's disease. The kappa statistic was used to determine intra- and interobserver agreement for regional 18FDG uptake and bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism. There was excellent intraobserver (kappa = .56, P < 0.0005) and interobserver (kappa = .51, P < 0.0005) interpretation agreement for bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism. There also was excellent intraobserver (kappa = .61, P < 0.000) and interobserver (kappa = .55, P < 0.000) interpretation agreement of regional 18FDG uptake. Interobserver agreement was extremely high in those patients who were considered clinically to have possible (kappa = .42, P < 0.001) or probable (kappa = .42, P < 0.01) Alzheimer's disease. Results confirm that bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism is the metabolic abnormality associated with the diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, intra- and interobserver agreement of visual interpretation of 18FDG-PET images indicates that 18FDG-PET is acceptable as an imaging technique in the clinical evaluation of the dementia patient."}
{"id": "8757021", "title": "Fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography in diffuse Lewy body disease.", "content": "Fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography in diffuse Lewy body disease. We report six demented individuals with pathologically verified diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD) studied with fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET). Three subjects had pure DLBD and three subjects had combined DLBD and Alzheimer's disease (DLBD-AD) pathology. FDG-PET revealed evidence of diffuse cerebral hypometabolism in both pure DLBD and DLBD-AD with marked declines in association cortices with relative sparing of subcortical structures and primary somatomotor cortex, a pattern reported previously in AD. Unlike AD, however, these subjects also had hypometabolism in the occipital association cortex and primary visual cortex. These findings indicate the presence of diffuse cortical abnormalities in DLBD and suggest that FDG-PET may be useful in discriminating DLBD from AD antemortem."}
{"id": "8757020", "title": "Regional hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured by positron emission tomography after correction for effects of partial volume averaging.", "content": "Regional hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured by positron emission tomography after correction for effects of partial volume averaging. Measurements of cerebral metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using PET are artifactually depressed due to partial volume averaging of brain tissue activity with enlarged CSF spaces. To investigate the effects of correction for the expansion of CSF spaces on regional metabolic measures, as well as the correlations between neuropsychological test results and resting cerebral metabolism before and after partial volume correction, we applied an MRI-based method of partial volume correction to 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET data from eight patients diagnosed with probable AD and ten healthy elderly individuals. Before correction, the AD group had significantly lower cortex-to-cerebellum ratios in the posterior temporal, parietal, and frontal lobes in comparison to the control subjects. Partial volume correction of PET data resulted in 19 to 49% increases in regional activity in the AD group and 16 to 38% increases in the control group. The patients' persistence of significant hypometabolism in the frontal, posterior temporal, and parietal regions after partial volume correction suggests that a true reduction in regional cerebral glucose metabolism occurs in AD, even though its magnitude is a result of both metabolic reductions and the effects of atrophy. Partial volume correction of PET data in the AD group had a significant impact on the correlations between regional glucose metabolism and neuropsychological performance. These findings suggest that accounting for differential extent and distribution of cerebral atrophy in patients with AD and in healthy individuals may potentially improve our ability to interpret specific cognitive dysfunction in the context of the functional imaging data."}
{"id": "8752683", "title": "[Corticobasal degeneration: a combined clinical, PET and pathological study].", "content": "[Corticobasal degeneration: a combined clinical, PET and pathological study]. We report 2 cases of corticobasal degeneration (CBD) with reference to the clinical and pathological features and neuroimaging including MRI, positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT). Case 1 was a 66-year-old right-handed woman. Her spontaneity had been gradually impaired, and she showed a progressive course of naming difficulty, memory disturbance, and right unilateral spatial neglect in addition to the right hemi-parkinsonism and bilateral pyramidal tract signs. Cortical and subcortical atrophy was predominant in the left hemisphere on MRI. As compared with the right side, both cerebral blood flow (CBF) and oxygen metabolism (CMRO2) were decreased in the left hemisphere on the PET which was performed 4 years after onset. She showed further clinical deterioration, and exhibited a bilateral parkinsonism 6 years after the onset. The follow-up SPECT revealed diffusely bilateral hypoperfusion except for the basal ganglia and occipital lobes 6 years after the onset. Case 2 was a 56-year-old right-handed woman. She exhibited a progressive course of bilateral parkinsonism, hallucinations and vertical eye movements disturbance. She died of infection 42 months after the onset of the initial symptoms. Bilateral frontal atrophy was seen on X-ray CT and MRI. PET revealed a diffuse moderate decrease in CBF and CMRO2 particularly in the frontal cortex, central semiovale, paraventricular white matter and cingulate gyrus bilaterally. Pathological examination disclosed a mild frontal atrophy, and there was diffuse neuronal loss, gliosis, and achromasia in the cerebral cortices. There was moderate neuronal cell loss and gliosis in the thalamus, whereas the globus pallidus, striate and substantia nigra were severely affected. Neuronal inclusions termed corticobasal inclusions were present in the substantia nigra, nuclei raphes, and Meynert's nuclei, and none of these regions contained Pick's cell. PET and SPECT studies revealed an asymmetrical decrease in CBF and CMRO2 in the initial stage and diffuse bilateral decrease in the advanced stage in Case 1, whereas Case 2 showed a bilateral decrease in the late stage. This may indicate that the patterns of hypoperfusion and/or hypometabolism differs according to the clinical stages of CBD."}
{"id": "8752524", "title": "[Image analysis in patients with dementia].", "content": "[Image analysis in patients with dementia]. There are a number of noninvasive imaging methods in patients with dementia, including X-ray CT, MRI, SPECT and PET. Anatomical imaging using CT and MRI is often used for assessing severity of brain atrophy, which is commonly seen in patients with dementia. However, the early detection of brain abnormalities seem to be limited with these methods. Brain functional studies using radionuclide techniques have been recently developed with introduction of a variety of new radiopharmaceuticals. Among them, brain perfusion SPECT which is clinically available in most of the hospitals, is considered as a powerful means for accurate diagnosis and assessment of severity of dementia. Hypoperfusion is commonly seen in bilateral parieto-temporal cortex (association cortex) in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Frontal hypoperfusion is seen in the advanced cases of Alzheimer's disease. This disease is easily differentiated with multi-infarct dementia where multiple asymmetrical hypoperfusion is seen in the brain cortex on SPECT. More importantly, such functional abnormality is often observed in patients with normal findings in CT or MRI, indicating clinical value of brain perfusion SPECT for early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Bilateral hypoperfusion is noted in the frontal cortex in patients with Pick disease. Recently biochemical imaging can be obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) using various physiological tracers labeled with C-11, N-13, O-15, and F-18. Cerebral perfusion, metabolism and receptor functions can be quantitatively measured in vivo. The PET study nicely demonstrated that hypometabolism in bilateral parieto-temporal cortex in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, glucose metabolism is considered to be further suppressed compared to perfusion, indicating suppression of brain synaptic function in this disease. In conclusion, brain functional imaging using SPECT and PET is useful for the detection and evaluation of a variety of dementia."}
{"id": "8741148", "title": "Unilateral spatial neglect in Alzheimer's disease. A line bisection study.", "content": "Unilateral spatial neglect in Alzheimer's disease. A line bisection study. Neuropsychological studies on Alzheimer's disease (AD) have rarely mentioned about unilateral spatial neglect in spite of widespread use of visuospatial tasks. We reported a 62-year-old woman with probable AD who showed moderate dementia with left unilateral spatial neglect and relatively preserved language function. An extensive line bisection study with either hand confirmed her having left unilateral spatial neglect. Single photon emission computed tomography revealed relative hypoperfusion in the right temporal and parietal regions. AD patients with disproportionate right hemisphere dysfunction may exhibit left unilateral spatial neglect if tested adequately in the stage of mild to moderate dementia. We consider that application of the line bisection test to AD patients contributes to estimation of their right hemisphere function."}
{"id": "8741001", "title": "Functional studies of new drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Functional studies of new drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Few treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been evaluated to date by studying their effects on functional brain activity. Neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are important tools that can provide an increased understanding of functional correlates to biological and structural changes in brains of patients with AD. These techniques provide valuable information about effects of drug treatments on functional parameters including blood flow, glucose metabolism, and neurotransmitter activity. Functional study outcomes are especially valuable when they are combined with studies of the effect of treatment on EEG and cognitive tests. This paper discusses functional changes observed in the brains of patients with AD following treatment with tacrine or nerve growth factor. Although these agents represent different approaches to cognitive drug treatment for AD, functional study outcomes indicate that both drugs improve cholinergic activity in the brain during long-term treatment."}
{"id": "8740993", "title": "Biological markers and diagnostic investigations in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Biological markers and diagnostic investigations in Alzheimer's disease. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on numerous clinical, neuroradiological, neurophysiological, and neuropsychological evaluations, but a definitive diagnosis can only be established at autopsy or by brain biopsy. Because the need for a simple and accurate diagnostic marker is increasing as new drug treatments emerge, intensive research to identify diagnostic markers is now in progress. Computer tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are being used to compare linear and volumetric measurements of brains for patients with AD and normal controls. Functional imaging techniques, such as single photon emission computer tomography and positron emission tomography, are being used to identify possible disease-related changes in regional blood flow, glucose metabolism, and receptor activities. Elevated tau-protein concentrations or reduced levels of beta-amyloid precursor protein in the cerebrospinal fluid; mutations on chromosomes 14, 19, and 21; the presence of the Apo-epsilon-4 allele; and impaired odor identification are also being evaluated as possible markers."}
{"id": "8711986", "title": "Frontal lobe dementia presenting as personality disorder.", "content": "Frontal lobe dementia presenting as personality disorder. The early differential diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia is particularly difficult because changes of personality or behaviour overwhelm intellectual and cognitive impairments. We report the case of a patient presenting with paranoid personality disorder who refused to collaborate in neuropsychological testing. Initial functional imaging showed frontal hypometabolism that served as an early marker of frontal lobe dysfunction."}
{"id": "8694308", "title": "In vivo imaging of human limbic responses to nitrous oxide inhalation.", "content": "In vivo imaging of human limbic responses to nitrous oxide inhalation. Human behavioral studies have shown that nitrous oxide, in subanesthetic concentrations, impairs psychomotor function, cognitive performance, and learning and memory processes. However, the cerebral mechanisms of such effects remain unknown. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to map the brain areas associated with nitrous oxide effects. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured in eight volunteers, during room air (control) or 20% nitrous oxide (nitrous oxide) inhalation using 15(O)-water, to reflect regional neuronal activity. To control for the possibility that 20% nitrous oxide uncoupled cerebral blood flow and metabolism, in four of the subjects, regional cerebral metabolic rate (rCMR) was also measured using 18F-deoxyglucose during the two experimental conditions. Results of rCBF and rCMR scans were compared between conditions using the statistical parametric mapping method, and areas of nitrous oxide-related activation or deactivation were identified at a significance level of 0.005. Percent changes in rCBF scan pixels from these activated or deactivated areas were then compared with those of stereotactically corresponding rCMR scan pixels with t statistics (P < 0.05 was defined as a significant difference). It was found that cerebral blood flow and metabolism were not uncoupled by 20% nitrous oxide, since percent changes in rCBF and rCMR, detected during nitrous oxide inhalation, did not differ significantly from each other (P < 0.05). Nitrous oxide inhalation was associated with significant activation in the anterior cingulate cortex, a limbic area known to mediate psychomotor and cognitive processes. Deactivation was found in the posterior cingulate, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, and visual association cortices in both hemispheres; the former two regions are known to mediate learning and memory. These areas identified by PET in vivo may provide the neuroanatomical basis for the behavioral responses associated with subanesthetic nitrous oxide inhalation."}
{"id": "8667045", "title": "Diminished glucose transport and phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease determined by dynamic FDG-PET.", "content": "Diminished glucose transport and phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease determined by dynamic FDG-PET. Using dynamic [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and PET, kinetic rate constants that describe influx (K1) and efflux (k2) of FDG as well as phosphorylation (k3) and dephosphorylation (k4) were determined in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and similarly aged normal controls. The regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglu) was calculated from individually fitted rate constants in frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cerebral cortex, caudate nucleus, putamen, thalamus and cerebellar cortex. Dynamic PET scans were obtained in normal controls (n = 10, mean age = 67) and Alzheimer's disease patients (n = 8, mean age = 67) for 60 min following injection of 10 mCi of FDG. The Alzheimer's disease group was characterized by decreases of the CMRglu ranging from 13.3% in the frontal to 40.9% in the parietal cortex, which achieved significance in all regions except the thalamus. K1 was significantly reduced in the parietal (p < 0.01) and temporal cortices (p < 0.05). Significant declines in k3 were found in the parietal (p < 0.005), temporal and occipital cortex, and in the putamen and cerebellum (p < 0.05). The rate constants k2 and k4 were unchanged in the Alzheimer's disease group. These data suggest that hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease is related to reduced glucose phosphorylation activity as well as diminished glucose transport, particularly in the most metabolically affected areas of the brain, the parietal and temporal cortex."}
{"id": "8648331", "title": "SPECT and MRI analysis in Alzheimer's disease: relation to apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele.", "content": "SPECT and MRI analysis in Alzheimer's disease: relation to apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele. The epsilon 4 allele of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is a risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease. ApoE is present in senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and cerebrovascular amyloid, and it is implicated in synaptogenesis. The effect of ApoE polymorphism on the volumes of hippocampus, amygdala, and frontal lobe was studied. The hypothesis was that the patients with Alzheimer's disease carrying the epsilon 4 allele have more pronounced atrophy. The relation of ApoE and cerebral blood flow on cortical areas was also assessed. Fifty eight patients with Alzheimer's disease at the early stage of the disease and 34 control subjects were studied. Patients with Alzheimer's disease were divided into subgroups according to the number of the epsilon 4 alleles. Volumes were measured by MRI and regional cerebral blood flow ratios referred to the cerebellum were examined by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT. ApoE genotypes were determined by digestion of ApoE polymerase chain reaction products with the restriction enzyme Hha1. patients with Alzheimer's disease had smaller volumes of hippocampi and amygdala compared with control subjects, and the patients with Alzheimer's disease homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele had the most prominent volume loss in the medial temporal lobe structures. The frontal lobe volumes did not differ significantly. All patients with Alzheimer's disease had bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion and the subgroups with one or no epsilon 4 alleles also had frontal hypoperfusion compared with control subjects. The occipital perfusion ratios tended to decrease with increasing number of epsilon 4 alleles. Patients with Alzheimer's disease homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele seem to have severe damage in the medial temporal lobe structures early in the disease process and differ from the patients with Alzheimer's disease with one or no epsilon 4 alleles."}
{"id": "8624126", "title": "Clinical and neuroimaging features of familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical and neuroimaging features of familial Alzheimer's disease. Subtle phenotypic differences between familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) pedigrees can be identified which may reflect the genetic and allelic heterogeneity of the disease. Positron emission tomography (PET) of APP mutation and chromosome 14-linked FAD pedigree members reveals biparietal bitemporal hypometabolism. Scanning of asymptomatic at-risk individuals reveals a similar, but quantitatively less severe, pattern of hypometabolism."}
{"id": "8624103", "title": "Functional imaging patterns in Alzheimer's disease. Relationships to neurobiology.", "content": "Functional imaging patterns in Alzheimer's disease. Relationships to neurobiology. Brain imaging with functional techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have been widely applied to the study of dementia. While the pattern of temporal and parietal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion have often been suggested to be of diagnostic utility in ascertaining that a dementia is due to Alzheimer's disease (AD), the exact sensitivity and specificity of this pattern in clinically important situations is unclear. These imaging findings have been of considerable interest, however, in describing the regional patterns of predilection in the disease. Evidence supports the contention that the earliest sites of functional impairment in AD are in the temporal lobes. Surprisingly, however, mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism was difficult to detect in a group of mildly demented AD patients in comparison to a group of healthy older subjects. These results suggest that simple use of mesial temporal lobe metabolic rates as a diagnostic for AD may not be fruitful, and that evaluation of the earliest stages of AD can be most productively studied by investigating healthy older individuals."}
{"id": "8624090", "title": "Visual versus auditory memory stimulation in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. A PET study with 18 FDG.", "content": "Visual versus auditory memory stimulation in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. A PET study with 18 FDG. Patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were either stimulated with a continuous visual recognition task (n = 18) or with a continuous auditory recognition task during PET measurement with 18 FDG. The PET scanner was a Siemens CTI, ECAT EXACT with 5 mm transaxial and 6 mm axial resolution. The global stimulation effects were nearly identical in both groups and increased of 4.17 +/- 8.14% in the auditory stimulated group and of 4.03 +/- 11.78% in the visual stimulated group. Beyond regional stimulation effects in both groups a common cerebellar stimulation effect was measured. It is concluded that the cerebellar stimulation effect reflects a modality independent cognitive process and that the only small enhancement of global glucose metabolism indicates disturbed stimuli processes and finally explained the patient's failure in memory tasks."}
{"id": "8621744", "title": "Combined study of cerebral glucose metabolism and [11C]methionine accumulation in probable Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Combined study of cerebral glucose metabolism and [11C]methionine accumulation in probable Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography. There is a characteristic decrease in glucose metabolism in associative frontal and temporo-parietal cortices of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The decrease in metabolism might result from local neuronal loss or from a decrease of synaptic activity. We measured in vivo [11C]methionine accumulation into proteins with positron emission tomography (PET) to assess cortical tissue loss in AD. Both global regional activity and compartmental analysis were used to express [11C]methionine accumulation into brain tissue. Glucose metabolism was measures with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and autoradiographic method. Combined studies were performed in 10 patients with probable AD, compared to age-matched healthy volunteers. There was a significant 45% decrease of temporo-parietal glucose metabolism in patients with AD, and frontal metabolism was lowered in most patients. Temporo-parietal metabolism correlated to dementia severity. [11C]methionine incorporation into temporo-parietal and frontal cortices was not significantly decreased in AD. There was no correlation with clinical symptoms. Data suggest that regional tissue loss, assessed by the decrease of [11C]methionine accumulation, is not sufficient to explain cortical glucose hypometabolism, which reflects, rather, reduced synaptic connectivity."}
{"id": "8592548", "title": "Preclinical evidence of Alzheimer's disease in persons homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele for apolipoprotein E.", "content": "Preclinical evidence of Alzheimer's disease in persons homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele for apolipoprotein E. Variants of the apolipoprotein E allele appear to account for most cases of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, and persons with two copies of the epsilon 4 allele appear to have an especially high risk of dementia. Positron-emission tomography (PET) has identified specific regions of the brain in which the rate of glucose metabolism declines progressively in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. We used PET to investigate whether these same regions of the brain are affected in subjects homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele before the onset of cognitive impairment. Apolipoprotein E genotypes were established in 235 volunteers 50 to 65 years of age who reported a family history of probable Alzheimer's disease. Neurologic and psychiatric evaluations, a battery of neuropsychological tests, magnetic resonance imaging, and PET were performed in 11 epsilon 4 homozygotes and 22 controls without the epsilon 4 allele who were matched for sex, age, and level of education. An automated method was used to generate an aggregate surface-projection map that compared regional rates of glucose metabolism in the two groups. The epsilon 4 homozygotes were cognitively normal. They had significantly reduced rates of glucose metabolism in the same posterior cingulate, parietal, temporal, and prefrontal regions as in previously studied patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. They also had reduced rates of glucose metabolism in additional prefrontal regions, which may be preferentially affected during normal aging. In late middle age, cognitively normal subjects who are homozygous for the epsilon 4 allele for apolipoprotein E have reduced glucose metabolism in the same regions of the brain as in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. These findings provide preclinical evidence that the presence of the epsilon 4 allele is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. PET may offer a relatively rapid way of testing future treatments to prevent Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8576501", "title": "1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry, and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in normal aging, age-associated memory impairment, and probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry, and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in normal aging, age-associated memory impairment, and probable Alzheimer's disease. To better understand how to differentiate the \"in vivo\" normal aging brain from pathological conditions, namely dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), by means of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS), to show neuroanatomical, perfusional and neurochemical details, respectively. 1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry and 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT were performed in healthy older subjects as well as patients suffering from age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) and dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). Eighteen subjects were selected from those referred to an outpatient clinic for diagnostic evaluation of cognitive impairment entered the study. Six patients fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA diagnostic criteria for DAT, six subjects were affected by AAMI, and six cognitively healthy subjects, selected from among relatives of the patients, were defined as controls. The 1H-MRS and MRI studies were performed on a 1.5 Tesla NMR-imaging system equipped with a spectroscopy research package. SPECT scans were performed on a Gamma 11 computer system. 1H-MRS showed significantly lower N-acetylasparatate concentration in DAT and AAMI compared with controls. Conversely, mean inositol concentration was significantly higher in DAT than in controls, whereas AAMI subjects registered intermediate values. MRI measurements showed significantly reduced volumes of hippocampal formations in DAT and AAMI groups compared with controls. Finally, 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT showed a significant frontal, temporo-parietal, and occipital hypoperfusion in DAT patients only. These findings support the hypothesis of a continuum among the three conditions studied, or at least between AAMI and DAT, where AAMI seems to be an early, monosymptomatic stage of Alzheimer disease. Accepting this view, it would be questionable to maintain the term \"age-associated memory impairment\" as a discrete entity."}
{"id": "8821493", "title": "[Differences of neuroimaging between early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia].", "content": "[Differences of neuroimaging between early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia]. Several studies have shown that the symptomatology and the neuropathological and neurochemical changes of early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EAD) differ from those of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LAD). The aim of the present study is to examine differences in SPECT and MRI findings between EAD and LAD. Cerebral blood flow and patterns on SPECT, and deep white matter lesions and cerebral atrophy on MRI in 17 patients with EAD were compared with 30 patients with LAD without cerebrovascular risk factors. Temporoparietal activity ratio, divided by cerebellum, on SPECT imaging in patients with EAD was significantly lower than in patients with LAD. In a qualitative assessment of perfusion patterns, bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion, which is typical in AD, was seen more frequently in patients with EAD than in those with LAD. Among white matter changes in MRI, the score of white matter hyperintensity was significantly higher in LAD than in EAD patients. However, there was no significant difference between periventricular hyperintensity scores. Though ventricular enlargement did not differ significantly in EAD and LAD, cortical atrophy scores in LAD were significantly higher than in EAD. Cortical atrophy scores were significantly higher in patients with atypical perfusion patterns on SPECT, (e.g. global hypoperfusion in addition to temporoparietal change), than in patients with typical perfusion pattern. These results indicate that functional and morphological imagings in LAD differ with those in EAD, probably due to less-prominent neuropathological degeneration combined with age-related alterations."}
{"id": "8752469", "title": "[Positron emission tomography and single photon CT in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Positron emission tomography and single photon CT in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders]. The positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission CT (SPECT) revealed the pathophysiology of ischemic brain in the transaxial images. There are several limitations in PET studies by continuous inhalation method using oxygen-15 labeled gases. There has been a suspicion about the constancy between the red cell volume and plasma volume in the ischemic brain. We measured plasma volume by PET using Cu-62 labeled human serum albumin in cases of internal carotid artery occlusion. There was no remarkable plasma volume alterations between the ischemic and non-ischemic hemisphere. Powers et al demonstrated the relationships between the intracranial perfusion pressure changes and vascular or metabolic adaptations. The important issue in acute stage of stroke is to differentiate the truly alive and completely destroyed tissue. Cerebral blood flow change might be affected during acute stage by diaschisis. Recent examination using benzodiazepine receptor imaging by SPECT might have a potential to depict the damaged tissues, because cortical neuronal cell bodies have a lot of the receptors and an ischemic insult induces the loss of the receptors. The relationship of crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion (CCH) and supratentorial circulatory conditions is attractive, because supratentorial hypometabolism of oxygen induced more severe CCH in internal carotid artery occlusion. Therefore, we can predict the supratentorial oxygen metabolism by CCH in a case of internal artery occlusion. We have a lots of tools to explore the pathophysiological states of ischemic brain. These must be dedicated to develop the more effective therapeutic procedures."}
{"id": "8750117", "title": "Cerebral metabolism of oxygen and glucose in a patient with MELAS syndrome.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism of oxygen and glucose in a patient with MELAS syndrome. We studied cerebral oxygen and glucose metabolism as well as cerebral blood flow using positron emission tomography (PET) in a case with MELAS showing dementia, diabetes mellitus, ataxia and lactic acidosis without any signs of stroke. This case, confirmed to have a point mutation at position 3243 in the transfer RNA gene of mitochondrial DNA, developed a stroke-like episode 8 months after the PET study. Uncoupling was observed between cerebral oxygen metabolism and cerebral blood flow with reduced fractional oxygen extraction ratio, indicating \"hyperemia\", not ischemia. The \"hyperemia\" may be closely related to the malfunction of mitochondria in aerobic energy production. A drastic decrease in cerebral oxygen metabolism (CMRO2) was found globally in contrast to preserved cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglu), resulting in a remarkable decrease in the metabolic ratio (CMRO2/CMRglu). The dissociation between cerebral glucose and oxygen metabolism may be characteristic of MELAS."}
{"id": "8672604", "title": "Abnormal brain glucose metabolism in the delusional misidentification syndromes: a positron emission tomography study in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Abnormal brain glucose metabolism in the delusional misidentification syndromes: a positron emission tomography study in Alzheimer disease. Brain lesions have been reported with increasing frequency in the delusional misidentification syndromes (DMS). This is the first controlled study to describe DMS regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (rCMRglc). We compared rCMRglc (using positron emission tomography) and neuropsychological data in 9 patients with DMS and Alzheimer dementia (AD), 15 AD patients without DMS, and 17 healthy controls. The DMS group differed from the AD group without DMS in having significant hypometabolism in paralimbic (orbitofrontal and cingulate areas bilaterally) and left medial temporal areas, and significant bilateral normalized hypermetabolism in sensory association cortices (superior temporal and inferior parietal) without right left asymmetry. Compared to healthy controls, both AD groups had significant dorso lateral frontal hypometabolism bilaterally. No specific DMS neuropsychological profile was identified. Dysfunctional connections among multimodal association areas, paralimbic structures, and dorsolateral frontal cortex are proposed as the predisposing neural deficit underlying DMS, causing cognitive-perceptual-affective dissonance, which under specific conditions results in \"positive\" delusion formation."}
{"id": "8595480", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in children with deterioration of one or more cognitive functions and continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in children with deterioration of one or more cognitive functions and continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep. The Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) and the syndrome of continuous spike-and-wave discharges during slow sleep (CSWS) were originally described, and are still considered, separately. The former combines an acquired aphasia with spike-and-wave discharges that are activated by slow wave sleep, behavioural disturbances, and sometimes epileptic seizures. The latter is characterized by continuous spike-and-wave discharges during slow wave sleep, usually combined with global intellectual deterioration and epileptic seizures. These two syndromes share many common features: (i) onset during childhood; (ii) deterioration of cognitive functions that were previously normally acquired; (iii) seizure type; (iv) EEG pattern; (v) pharmacological reactivity; (vi) regression of the neuropsychological symptoms, of the EEG abnormalities and of the seizures before the end of adolescence; (vii) absence of obvious structural lesion detected by CT or MRI scan. Therefore, we postulated that these patients might, in fact, be presenting several facets of a single process associating the deterioration of cognitive functions and continuous spike-and-wave discharges during slow wave sleep. The pathogenesis of this syndrome remains unknown. Seven patients, presenting CSWS associated with neuropsychological deterioration (isolated aphasia, three cases; language disturbances with more widespread cognitive deterioration, three cases; isolated apraxia, one case) were studied using PET with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). We hoped to find metabolic arguments in favour of a unifying hypothesis, and to reveal clues as to pathogenesis. We present the retrospective analysis of 21 studies performed between 1986 and 1993, 12 of which were done during sleep. For three of these patients, follow-up studies were obtained until recovery. The metabolic patterns were very variable from one patient to another and in the same patient over time. Among the six patients studied during the active phase of the affection, our results showed unilateral, focal or regional increase in glucose metabolism of the cortex in five patients. This hypermetabolism was observed during sleep with continuous spike-and-wave discharges, but also persisted during wakefulness. In the last patient, the metabolic pattern was different: decreased regional glucose metabolism was observed during wakefulness, whereas during sleep, the metabolic pattern in the temporal areas varied during the course of the affection. After recovery, the metabolic pattern in four children (including the seventh patient) was either normal or showed focal or regional, uni- or bilateral decrease in cortical glucose metabolism. Despite this apparent disparity, four basic metabolic characteristics formed a common pattern in all patients, in line with our unifying postulate: (i) the metabolism of the cortical mantle was higher than in the subcortical structures, especially in the thalamic nuclei. This metabolic pattern is characteristic of an immature brain. (ii) The metabolic abnormalities involved focal or regional areas of the cortex. This finding is in good agreement with recent neurophysiological data suggesting a focal origin of the spike-and-wave discharges. (iii) The metabolic disturbances predominantly involved associative cortices. The pattern of neuropsychological deterioration is in good agreement with the topography of the disturbances of cortical glucose metabolism. (iv) The thalamic nuclei remained symmetrical despite significant cortical asymmetries, suggesting either that cortico-thalamic neurons do not participate in the generation of spike-and-wave discharges or that they are inhibited by the pathologic mechanisms. We hypothesize that the acquired deterioration of cognitive function with CSWS is caused by an alteration of the maturation of one or several associative cortices, primarily involving local interneurons and cortico-cortical associative neurons."}
{"id": "8555751", "title": "The relationship between psychiatric symptoms and regional cortical metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The relationship between psychiatric symptoms and regional cortical metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Cognitive and noncognitive psychiatric symptoms were systematically evaluated in 21 patients with Alzheimer's disease by using the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale. Regional cerebral metabolic activity was measured in each patient by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET. Significant correlations emerged between global cortical metabolic activity and the Agitation/Disinhibition factor score, Cognition factor score, and total score. Relationships between noncognitive symptoms and metabolic activity were regionally specific, with significant correlations between Agitation/Disinhibition factor score and metabolism in the frontal and temporal lobes, between Psychosis factor score and metabolism in the frontal lobe, and between Anxiety/Depression factor score and metabolism in the parietal lobe. These results suggest that psychiatric symptoms are fundamental expressions of the cortical dysfunction of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8538823", "title": "Assessing vascular dementia.", "content": "Assessing vascular dementia. Vascular dementia is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly after Alzheimer's disease. Many forms of vascular dementia have been described: multi-infarct dementia, lacunar dementia, Binswanger's subcortical encephalopathy, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, white matter lesions associated with dementias, single infarct dementia, dementia linked to hypoperfusion and haemorrhagic dementia. The difficulty of diagnosing vascular dementia must not be underestimated and an international consensus is needed for epidemiological studies. The NINCDS-AIREN group has recently published diagnostic criteria. The State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers also proposed some which differ from the NINCDS-AIREN criteria in considering only ischaemic vascular dementia and not other mechanisms such as haemorrhagic or hypoxic lesions. Most studies stress hypertension as the most powerful risk factor for all forms of vascular dementia. The incidence rate ranges from 7 per 1000 person-years in normal volunteers to 16 per 1000 person-years in hypertensive patients. No therapeutic attempt has influenced the course of the disease once the dementing condition is established. The only effective approach is preventive treatment. The objective of the SYST-EUR Vascular Dementia project is to confirm that the treatment of isolated systolic hypertension is able to reduce its incidence."}
{"id": "8526242", "title": "Predictors of cognitive change in middle-aged and older adults with memory loss.", "content": "Predictors of cognitive change in middle-aged and older adults with memory loss. Previous longitudinal studies of age-related memory loss have focused on objective neuropsychological measures that predict subsequent cognitive change, yet brain metabolic function, self-perception of memory loss, and other measures may also be sensitive indicators of cognitive change. To determine such baseline predictors of change, the authors made longitudinal assessments of middle-aged and older adults with memory loss. Forty-two persons (mean age = 60 years, range = 43-81) with memory complaints received comprehensive baseline assessments, including subjective neuropsychological measures, objective measures of visual-spatial memory (the Benton Visual Retention Test) and verbal memory (the Buschke-Fuld Selective Reminding Test), and positron emission tomography scans to determine neocortical glucose metabolism. At an average follow-up of 3 years, the objective neuropsychological measures were again used to quantify the degree of cognitive change. Multiple regression analyses indicated that parietal asymmetry, sex of the subject, and baseline visual-spatial memory score were significant predictors of change in visual-spatial memory; level of education and baseline verbal memory score predicted change in verbal memory. Other neocortical asymmetry scores, age, family history of Alzheimer's disease, cerebral atrophy, and self-ratings of use of mnemonics were not significant predictors of change. Measures of cerebral metabolism, objective memory performance, sex, and education may predict subsequent cognitive change in middle-aged and older persons with memory loss. Also, the parietal asymmetry found in persons with questionable dementia that progresses to probable Alzheimer's disease may be present very early in the course of age-related cognitive decline."}
{"id": "8523106", "title": "PET of peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites in the microgliosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET of peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites in the microgliosis of Alzheimer's disease. Animal and human autoradiographic studies have shown increased in vitro binding of the peripheral benzodiazepine binding site antagonist PK 11195 in areas of microgliosis, including the temporal association cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease. To further elucidate the role of cellular inflammation and microgliosis in Alzheimer's disease during life, we used PET and [11C]PK 11195, a peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand known to bind avidly to microglia. Eight patients with a diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease underwent PET of the brain using [11C]PK 11195 and, for comparison, with [18F]FDG to determine cerebral glucose metabolism. Uptake of [11C]PK 11195 in various brain regions was expressed relative to that in the cerebellum and compared to values determined in one normal elderly subject and in clinically and anatomically unaffected hemispheres of seven patients with small unilateral gliomas. No increases in peripheral benzodiazepine binding were identified in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, and binding was lowest in regions that were most hypometabolic. The peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites associated with microgliosis and cellular inflammation in Alzheimer's disease at postmortem are undetectable by PET using [11C]PK 11195 in patients with mild-to-moderate dementia."}
{"id": "8523099", "title": "Functional brain imaging in HIV-1-infected children born to seropositive mothers.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in HIV-1-infected children born to seropositive mothers. The aim of this work was to study cerebral function in vertically infected children with human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1). PET with 18F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was performed in eight children (2.5-5.5 yr): three with severe neurological symptoms and five without. Quantitative analysis was based on gray matter cortical and subcortical regions of interest for which glucose utilization was measured. Diffuse hypometabolism and subcortical hypermetabolism were found in the three children with severe neurological signs; the five other children had temporo-occipital cortical hypometabolism, mainly on the right side. Functional cerebral abnormalities seem to precede clinical symptoms in HIV-1infection of the brain in children."}
{"id": "8523038", "title": "Positron emission tomography of reversible intellectual impairment induced by long-term anticholinergic therapy.", "content": "Positron emission tomography of reversible intellectual impairment induced by long-term anticholinergic therapy. Long-term oral anticholinergic (AC) therapy can occasionally produce intellectual impairment. We investigated a patient with Parkinson's disease accompanied by intellectual impairment induced by long-term AC therapy. The intellectual impairment of the patient disappeared after cessation of AC therapy. Positron emission tomography (PET), during and after long-term oral AC therapy, revealed that it causes bilateral diffuse decrease of glucose metabolism in the cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, hippocampus and cerebellum. Cessation of the therapy resulted in diffuse increase of glucose metabolism in all of the above regions. Cranial CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no abnormalities. Our results suggest that long-term AC therapy causes reversible bilateral diffuse glucose hypometabolism."}
{"id": "7895004", "title": "Chromosome 14 linked familial Alzheimer's disease. A clinico-pathological study of a single pedigree.", "content": "Chromosome 14 linked familial Alzheimer's disease. A clinico-pathological study of a single pedigree. The clinical features of three affected members of a British pedigree with familial Alzheimer's disease are presented. This pedigree is one of six included in an earlier study which demonstrated linkage to chromosome 14. The individuals were investigated clinically and neuropsychologically, using both PET and MRI over a 4-year period. Further information from three deceased individuals was obtained, including histopathological confirmation of Alzheimer's disease in one case which came to autopsy. The mean age at onset for this family was 43 years. Neurological examination revealed myoclonic jerks in all cases, and one patient was documented to have seizures. Strikingly similar neuropsychological profiles were observed, characterized by an initial memory deficit with early dyscalculia and an impairment in speech production with relative absence of anomia. All individuals showed mild degrees of cerebral atrophy and two individuals had periventricular white matter lesions. PET scanning using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose showed parieto-temporal hypometabolism in all cases and the two severely affected patients with speech production changes had additional left-sided frontal hypometabolism involving Broca's area. The least affected case initially had a more asymmetrical reduction in metabolism in the left inferior temporal and supramarginal gyri; a follow-up scan showed that this deficit had become bilateral and more severe. These clinical and neuroimaging features have not been previously reported in chromosome 14 linked pedigrees; the phenotypic variability between families suggests allelic heterogeneity at the chromosome 14 locus."}
{"id": "7892656", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in hemiparetic patients with chronic subdural hematoma. Quantitative evaluation using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in hemiparetic patients with chronic subdural hematoma. Quantitative evaluation using positron emission tomography. It remains unclear why chronic subdural hematoma (CSH) can cause hemiparesis, although the contribution of impaired cerebral blood flow and metabolism has been suggested. We studied six hemiparetic patients (five men, one woman; mean age 60.5 +/- 7.5 years) with unilateral CSH using positron emission tomography. The 15O2 steady state technique was used to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), regional oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF), and regional cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (rCMRO2), followed by the 1-minute inhalation of C15O to measure regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV). On the hematoma side, rCBF and rCMRO2 were significantly reduced in the caudate nucleus and the cingulate gyrus. We observed a tendency toward reduced levels of rCBF and rCMRO2 in the lentiform nucleus. rCBV was not elevated. rOEF was significantly elevated in the lentiform nucleus, the cingulate gyrus, the frontal gray matters under the hematoma and the semioval center. On the nonhematoma side, rCBF and rCMRO2 were normal except for the significant reduction in the cingulate gyrus. rCBV was elevated in the lentiform nucleus, the middle temporal gyrus and the inferior frontal gyrus. rOEF was elevated significantly in the cingulate gyrus, the precentral gyrus and the semioval center. Our hemiparetic patients with CSH were observed to have a circulatory disturbance of blood; it was manifested by an elevation of rOEF, specifically in the hemisphere adjacent to the hematoma. This circulatory disturbance was highly pronounced and resulted in a consistent reduction in rCBF and rCMRO2 in the anterior central cerebral area such as the caudate nucleus, the lentiform nucleus and the cingulate gyrus."}
{"id": "7884953", "title": "Apolipoprotein E type 4 allele and cerebral glucose metabolism in relatives at risk for familial Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E type 4 allele and cerebral glucose metabolism in relatives at risk for familial Alzheimer disease. Cerebral parietal hypometabolism and left-right asymmetry occur early in the course of Alzheimer disease (AD), and the apolipoprotein E type 4 allele (APOE epsilon 4) is a risk factor for familial AD. To determine if APOE epsilon 4 is associated with lowered brain function in nondemented relatives at risk for familial AD, we studied 12 relatives with APOE epsilon 4 and 19 relatives without APOE epsilon 4. We also compared them with seven patients with probable AD. After grouping subjects according to diagnosis and genotype, brain function measures were compared among groups. University medical center. At risk subjects had mild memory complaints, normal cognitive performance, and at least two relatives with AD. Subjects with APOE epsilon 4 did not differ from those without APOE epsilon 4 in mean age at examination (56.4 vs 55.5 years) or in neuropsychological performance (mean Mini-Mental State Examination score, 28.8 vs 29.3). Cerebral glucose metabolism was measured using positron emission tomography and fludeoxyglucose F 18. Parietal metabolism was significantly lower and left-right parietal asymmetry was significantly higher in at-risk subjects with APOE epsilon 4 compared with those without APOE epsilon 4. Patients with dementia had significantly lower parietal metabolism than did at-risk subjects with APOE epsilon 4. These results suggest that the inheritance of APOE epsilon 4 is associated with reduced cerebral parietal metabolism and increased asymmetry in non-demented relatives at risk for probable AD. Longitudinal study will determine if glucose metabolic measures provide a means to monitor experimental treatment responses during the early phases of the disorder."}
{"id": "7872887", "title": "Positron emission tomography measures of benzodiazepine binding in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography measures of benzodiazepine binding in Alzheimer's disease. To evaluate the integrity of neurons and neuropil in metabolically affected association cortices of patients with Alzheimer's disease by measuring central benzodiazepine binding sites with the use of positron emission tomography. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, we determined the cerebral distribution of flumazenil tagged with carbon 11 ([11C]flumazenil), a ligand that binds to the gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor complex, and the distribution of fludeoxyglucose tagged with fluorine 18 fludeoxyglucose F 18), a measure of local cerebral glucose metabolism. Tracer kinetic analysis was applied to quantify data in regions of interest. These data were compared with those of normal control subjects. Patients with probable Alzheimer's disease ([11C]flumazenil, n = 13; fludeoxyglucose F 18, n = 11) and normal elderly control subjects ([11C]flumazenil, n = 6; fludeoxyglucose F 18, n = 10). Significant decreases of the [11C]flumazenil transport rate were found in hypometabolic parietal and temporal association cortices, but [11C]flumazenil binding was not significantly decreased. When measured in living patients, association cortical benzodiazepine binding sites are relatively preserved, suggesting structurally intact cortical neuropil underlying the glucose hypometabolism identified in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "7815078", "title": "Functional alterations in Alzheimer's disease: decreased glucose transporter 3 immunoreactivity in the perforant pathway terminal zone.", "content": "Functional alterations in Alzheimer's disease: decreased glucose transporter 3 immunoreactivity in the perforant pathway terminal zone. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies measuring glucose utilization have demonstrated cerebral hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The anatomic and biochemical basis for this observation remains unknown. We have examined the distribution in the hippocampal formation of the neuron-specific glucose transporter 3 (Glut3) protein. Using quantitative immunohistochemistry, we find a large reduction (49.5%) in Glut3 immunoreactivity in the outer portion of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in AD brains. This region corresponds to the terminal zone of the perforant pathway, whose cells of origin in layer II of the entorhinal cortex are selectively destroyed in AD. Because glucose uptake reflects metabolic demand, these results suggest a decrement of functional activity in the deafferented dentate gyrus granule cells. Generalizing from this observation, decreased glucose uptake seen on PET studies may reflect, in part, decreased glucose transport and utilization in functionally deafferented cortical fields."}
{"id": "7790950", "title": "A diagnostic approach in Alzheimer's disease using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections of fluorine-18-FDG PET.", "content": "A diagnostic approach in Alzheimer's disease using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections of fluorine-18-FDG PET. To improve the diagnostic performance of PET as an aid in evaluating patients suspected of having Alzheimer's disease, we developed a fully automated method which generates comprehensive image presentations and objective diagnostic indices. Fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose PET image sets were collected from 37 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (including questionable and mild dementia), 22 normal subjects and 5 patients with cerebrovascular disease. Following stereotactic anatomic standardization, metabolic activity on an individual's PET image set was extracted to a set of predefined surface pixels (three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection, 3D-SSP), which was used in the subsequent analysis. A normal database was created by averaging extracted datasets of the normal subjects. Patients' datasets were compared individually with the normal database by calculating a Z-score on a pixel-by-pixel basis and were displayed in 3D-SSP views for visual inspections. Diagnostic indices were then generated based on averaged Z-scores for the association cortices. Patterns and severities of metabolic reduction in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were seen in the standard 3D-SSP views of extracted raw data and statistical Z-scores. When discriminating patients with probable Alzheimer's disease from normal subjects, diagnostic indices of the parietal association cortex and unilaterally averaged parietal-temporal-frontal cortex showed sensitivities of 95% and 97%, respectively, with a specificity of 100%. Neither index yielded false-positive results for cerebrovascular disease. 3D-SSP enables quantitative data extraction and reliable localization of metabolic abnormalities by means of stereotactic coordinates. The proposed method is a promising approach for interpreting functional brain PET scans."}
{"id": "7785428", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in autopsy-confirmed Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in autopsy-confirmed Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was measured in a 72-year-old man, with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), by positron emission tomography using [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose as the tracer. The diagnosis of CJD, a rare neurodegenerative disorder, was confirmed at autopsy 13 months later. Compared with five unaffected elderly men, the patient had reduced metabolism heterogeneously distributed throughout the brain. The hypometabolism was most evident in the right hemisphere, particularly in the posterior frontal, parietal, Sylvian, and temporal regions. This left-right asymmetry is more extensive than that previously reported in Alzheimer's disease, and may provide a useful metabolic marker for early diagnosis of CJD."}
{"id": "7783942", "title": "Deficits in cerebral glucose metabolism demonstrated by positron emission tomography in individuals at risk of familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Deficits in cerebral glucose metabolism demonstrated by positron emission tomography in individuals at risk of familial Alzheimer's disease. In order to establish whether positron emission tomography (PET) can identify metabolic changes in Alzheimer's disease at a presymptomatic stage, we have examined 24 asymptomatic at risk individuals from families with Alzheimer's disease. A significant reduction in global cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was found when compared with 16 age-matched controls. There was also a focal, parieto-temporal deficit similar to, although less extensive than, that found in 18 symptomatic individuals from familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) pedigrees. Follow up of this cohort will establish whether these metabolic changes relate to a presymptomatic stage of the disease."}
{"id": "7732777", "title": "Early onset Alzheimer's disease in a South American pedigree from Argentina.", "content": "Early onset Alzheimer's disease in a South American pedigree from Argentina. We report the clinical, SPET, immunohistochemical and DNA features of an early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) in an Argentine pedigree of South American indian ethnic background. Pedigree spans 5 generations comprising more than 110 biological relatives. Clinical data supported the diagnosis of early onset FAD (mean age at onset 38.9 years) in 10 family members, including 3 with pathological confirmation (mean age at death 48.5). The pattern of transmission suggested autosomal dominant inheritance. Prominent features were mood changes, early language impairment, myoclonus, seizures and cerebellar signs. SPET displayed bilateral frontal, temporo-parietal and cerebellar hypoperfusion in early stages and in an asymptomatic member at risk, suggesting that SPET may have predictive value in this family. Immunohistochemistry showed beta amyloid deposits within neuritic plaques and vessel walls and no anti-PrP immunoreactivity. DNA analysis showed no abnormalities in the beta amyloid precursor protein gene. The identification of additional genetic defects in well characterized independent FAD pedigrees will contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "7728217", "title": "Correlations between cognitive impairment, middle cerebral artery flow velocity and cortical glucose metabolism in the early phase of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Correlations between cognitive impairment, middle cerebral artery flow velocity and cortical glucose metabolism in the early phase of Alzheimer's disease. In a previous transcranial Doppler (TCD) study, we demonstrated a decrease in blood flow velocity in the proximal tract of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In these patients there was also an asymmetry in blood flow velocity which positively correlated with the cognitive asymmetry often seen in the early phase of AD. In this study we found a correlation between the absolute values and asymmetry indexes of MCA blood flow velocity with adjusted metabolic values and asymmetry indexes of the relative cortical frontotemporoparietal (FTP) areas, evaluated by FDG-PET, and with neuropsychological asymmetry indexes. Patients with prevalent visuospatial deficits (right hemisphere dysfunction) showed significant decreases in right MCA blood flow velocity and right FTP cortical glucose hypometabolism, whereas in patients with prevalent language deficits (left hemisphere dysfunction), these signs were observed on the other side. In AD patients, the decrease of blood flow velocity in MCA might be due to reduced metabolic demands in the temporoparietal cortical areas primarily affected by AD."}
{"id": "7671977", "title": "Dementia due to lacunar infarctions: a misnomer or a clinical entity?", "content": "Dementia due to lacunar infarctions: a misnomer or a clinical entity? The following points should be considered in dealing with dementia occurring in patients with lacunar infarctions. Lacune is a pathological term and its definition rests on its size (from 2 to 15 mm in diameter). However, terms such as lacunar syndromes and lacunar infarctions are currently used in clinical parlance and recent papers. Patients with lacunar infarctions differ from patients with large infarctions, being more often hypertensive, showing a characteristic but not specific clinical syndrome, and disclosing a significantly lower recurrence rate for new episodes and a significantly higher survival rate. Patients with lacunar infarctions develop a state of dementia 5 times as often as the general population and 25 times as often as in the age group of our patients (65-69 years). Leukoaraiosis, significantly related to arterial hypertension, to lacunar infarction, to an extra risk of future stroke, may be considered an increased risk of cerebral vascular lesions possibly leading to dementia. The relationship between vascular lesions and dementia includes: the strategic location of the lesion (thalamus, corticothalamic areas, bilateral lesions); the whole cerebral hypoperfusion apart from the infarcted area, as shown by PET and SPET; remote effects of cerebral infarctions (diaschisis phenomenon); the so-called incomplete infarction; cerebral atrophy and, particularly, the enlargement of cerebral ventricles, significantly higher in patients with lacunes and dementia as compared with patients with lacunes without dementia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7668322", "title": "New Spielmeyer-Vogt variant with granular inclusions and early brain atrophy.", "content": "New Spielmeyer-Vogt variant with granular inclusions and early brain atrophy. Three females in 2 families were originally diagnosed with Spielmeyer-Vogt disease (SVD). The clinical course was different from SVD, with vision well preserved until age 10 years, and learning rather than visual difficulties the marker at the onset. Later, regression was unusually rapid, including global dementia, blindness, aphasia, and finally loss of self-feeding and ambulation between ages 12-18 years. MRI scan in patient 3 documented brain atrophy between ages 8-10 years. Position Emission Tomography (PET) scanning with fluorodeoxyglucose in patients 2 and 3 showed diffusely decreased or absent cortical glucose metabolism, comparable at ages 12 and 18 years, respectively, to the results found in the oldest typical SVD case tested at age 29 years. Fine granular inclusions, instead of the expected fingerprint inclusions, were demonstrated by electron microscopy of lymphocytes, conjunctiva, and skin. Usual markers on chromosome 16p12 were not present in the first family tested. The clinical course, with nonspecific initial behavior difficulties, late onset of visual decline followed by fast global regression, progressive brain atrophy, decreased cortical glucose utilization as shown by PET scanning, and granular tissue inclusions, suggest a genetic variant of SVD."}
{"id": "7666958", "title": "Cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease correlates with ventricular width and atrophy-corrected cortical glucose metabolism.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease correlates with ventricular width and atrophy-corrected cortical glucose metabolism. We compared the correlation of PET and MRI with neuropsychological tests in 26 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). The width of the temporal horns and the third ventricle, regional metabolic rates of glucose (rCMRGlu) and the proportion of cerebrospinal fluid space in mesial temporal and temporoparietal cortical regions were measured with three-dimensionally coregistered PET and MRI in two planes perpendicular to the Sylvian fissure. Highly significant correlations between rCMRGlu and neuropsychological tests were found mainly in the temporoparietal cortex, with and without correction for atrophy. Correlations of similar magnitude were seen also between most tests and the width of the temporal horns and third ventricle. Changes in the third ventricle and mesial temporal lobe were best seen with MRI, whereas PET most clearly depicted alterations in neocortical association areas. These two aspects of the disease correlated with the severity of dementia to a similar degree."}
{"id": "7662326", "title": "Alterations in metabolic properties in fibroblasts in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Alterations in metabolic properties in fibroblasts in Alzheimer disease. Alzheimer disease (AD) leads to alterations in several biochemical properties in cultured skin fibroblasts. Because abnormal glucose metabolism has been reported in both in vivo and in vitro studies of the brain, we examined glucose and glutamine oxidation and lactate production in cultured skin fibroblasts from nine patients with familial AD, 19 with sporadic AD, and 20 age-matched controls. The production of CO2 from glucose and glutamine was significantly lower in both groups of Alzheimer fibroblasts compared to controls after 10 min or 1, 2, and 4 h of incubation. The reduction in CO2 production was most evident after 1 h of incubation with either (U-14C)-glucose or (U-14C)-glutamine. Lactate concentration was comparable in all groups at any time of incubation. These findings suggest that processes that require mitochondrial function as glucose or glutamine oxidation are altered in AD and provide evidence that complex metabolic differences are expressed in cultured nonneuronal cells from Alzheimer patients."}
{"id": "7650534", "title": "P300 in Alzheimer's disease: relationships to dementia severity and glucose metabolism.", "content": "P300 in Alzheimer's disease: relationships to dementia severity and glucose metabolism. In 45 patients (aged 48-85 years) with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) according to current research criteria (NINCDS-ADRDA) with different stages of dementia severity (Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE) 7-27) the auditory evoked P300 waves were mapped and regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose were measured by positron emission tomography of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Age adjusted P300 latency was significantly correlated to dementia severity (r = -0.33, p = 0.028), but no significant relationships were found for P300 amplitudes. Dependencies existed among cortical glucose metabolic rates and MMSE with the highest correlation coefficient for the metabolic ratio of regions typically affected and non-affected in AD (r = 0.75, p = 0.0001). A significant correlation was also calculated between P300 latency and metabolic ratio (r = -0.44, p = 0.002), but no relationships were observed among P300 amplitudes and glucose metabolic rates of individual brain regions. These results indicate that P300 latency and metabolic rates but not P300 amplitudes qualify as measures of severity in AD. The lack of regional correlations among P300 amplitudes and glucose metabolism is not consistent with a cortical contribution to P300 generation."}
{"id": "7639629", "title": "Cortical abnormalities associated with subcortical lesions in vascular dementia. Clinical and position emission tomographic findings.", "content": "Cortical abnormalities associated with subcortical lesions in vascular dementia. Clinical and position emission tomographic findings. To examine the effects of subcortical lesions on cortical metabolic rate and clinical symptoms in patients with vascular dementia. Eleven elderly patients with vascular dementia who demonstrated no lesion involving the cerebral cortex on magnetic resonance imaging underwent 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography to assess global cortical metabolism and metabolic activity in each cortical lobe. Subcortical lesions on magnetic resonance imaging (periventricular hyperintensities, deep white matter hyperintensities, and subcortical lacunar infarcts) were measured using a graded scale of severity. Cognitive and noncognitive symptoms were assessed with the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale. Reduced cortical metabolism was generally associated with the severity of subcortical pathologic changes, but there was substantial heterogeneity in the relationship between subcortical lesions and cortical metabolic activity. Mean global cortical metabolism was lower in patients with periventricular hyperintensities in anterior subcortical regions than in those without such lesions. The metabolic rate in the frontal cortex was lower in patients with a lacunar infarct of the basal ganglia or thalamus than in those without. Neurobehavioral Rating Scale total score, the Verbal Output Disturbance factor score, and the Anxiety/Depression factor score were correlated with the severity of white matter lesions. Cortical metabolic dysfunction is related to ischemic subcortical lesions in patients with vascular dementia. Metabolism in the frontal cortex may be particularly dependent on pathologic alterations of subcortical nuclei. Anxiety, depression, and the overall severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms in vascular dementia are associated with the extent of white matter ischemia."}
{"id": "7622680", "title": "Preserved pontine glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease: a reference region for functional brain image (PET) analysis.", "content": "Preserved pontine glucose metabolism in Alzheimer disease: a reference region for functional brain image (PET) analysis. Our goal was to examine regional preservation of energy metabolism in Alzheimer disease (AD) and to evaluate effects of PET data normalization to reference regions. Regional metabolic rates in the pons, thalamus, putamen, sensorimotor cortex, visual cortex, and cerebellum (reference regions) were determined stereotaxically and examined in 37 patients with probable AD and 22 normal controls based on quantitative 18FDG-PET measurements. Following normalization of metabolic rates of the parietotemporal association cortex and whole brain to each reference region, distinctions of the two groups were assessed. The pons showed the best preservation of glucose metabolism in AD. Other reference regions showed relatively preserved metabolism compared with the parietotemporal association cortex and whole brain, but had significant metabolic reduction. Data normalization to the pons not only enhanced statistical significance of metabolic reduction in the parietotemporal association cortex, but also preserved the presence of global cerebral metabolic reduction indicated in analysis of the quantitative data. Energy metabolism in the pons in probable AD is well preserved. The pons is a reliable reference for data normalization and will enhance diagnostic accuracy and efficiency of quantitative and nonquantitative functional brain imaging."}
{"id": "7612383", "title": "[Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia and vascular dementia based on neuroimaging study].", "content": "[Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia and vascular dementia based on neuroimaging study]. A new method for differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia (AD) and vascular dementia (VD) based on neuroimaging studies was developed by Hayashi's quantification theory II. Fifty-five patients with AD and 36 patients with VD underwent both SPECT and MRI studies. Both images in each subject were scored according to the extent of hypoperfusion in areas including frontal and temporoparietal regions and the severity of deep white matter lesions and medial temporal lobe atrophy. The scores of AD and VD patients were significantly different, and this difference was considered to contribute most to the differential diagnosis of AD and VD. The weight of each score of SPECT and MRI items was computed, and the sum of the weights was calculated as a score for each subject to best distinguish AD from VD patients. This method was designed to simplify the calculation of the sample scores, and the sum of the weights was established so that a positive score (0 < or =) indicated the probability of AD, while a negative score (< 0) indicated the probability of VD. The correct diagnosis rate was 91% (50/55) for AD and 89% (32/36) for VD, for an overall discrimination of 90%. The present method seemed to be practically useful in the differential diagnosis of AD and VD."}
{"id": "7611090", "title": "Serial positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Serial positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We serially examined a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease using fludeoxyglucose F 18 and positron emission tomography. Marked cerebral hypometabolism reflected clinical deterioration in the early stages of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease when no parenchymal abnormalities were present on MR imaging."}
{"id": "7605624", "title": "FDG PET and differential diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "FDG PET and differential diagnosis of dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) demonstrates a typical pattern of impairment of regional metabolic rates of glucose (rCMRGlu) in most patients with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD): reduction of rCMRGlu in temporo-parietal association cortex, more variably also in prefontal cortex, but relative preservation of primary visual and sensoriomotor cortex, striatum, and cerebellum. Apart from early stages, both hemispheres are affected, but pronounced asymmetries may be present. With the exception of Parkinson's disease with dementia, the complete pattern is rarely seen in other dementing conditions, which usually lead to more global, frontal or multifocal metabolic impairment. Severity of dementia is mainly correlated with temporo-parietal rCMRGlu reduction, probably irrespective of the cause of dementia, and the neuropsychological profile is related to the asymmetry of metabolic alterations. Procedures are available for assessment of the typical pattern that yield comparable results in different laboratories, and have a high accuracy for discrimination between normals and probable AD. Diagnostic accuracy is better for presenile than for senile dementia of Alzheimer type, and for moderate to severe cases than for mild dementia. A definitive judgment of the diagnostic value of FDG PET in AD is hindered by the lack of sufficient data with diagnosis confirmed at autopsy."}
{"id": "7605617", "title": "Positron emission tomography in familial Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in familial Alzheimer disease. There is increasing evidence for genetic heterogeneity in Alzheimer disease. A longitudinal clinical and imaging study had been established in order to determine whether specific phenotypic profiles are present in aetiologically distinct familial Alzheimer disease (FAD) pedigrees. [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography has been used in conjunction with statistical parametric mapping to determine the relative distribution of hypometabolism. A parietotemporal deficit has been observed in individuals from both amyloid precursor protein mutation and chromosome 14 linked FAD families. Preliminary data from asymptomatic individuals at risk of FAD shows similar, although a less extensive pattern of deficit."}
{"id": "7591506", "title": "Dysfunction of visual cortex contributes to disturbed processing of visual information in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dysfunction of visual cortex contributes to disturbed processing of visual information in Alzheimer's disease. The relation between visual impairment and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGl) was studied in 31 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using positron emission tomography with 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. To exclude any precortical cause of visual dysfunction only patients were included who had amplitudes and latencies of visually evoked potentials (flash and pattern reversal) within the normal range. Visual information processing was evaluated psychometrically by a fragmented picture test (FPT), which is a combined perception (identification score) and memory (reidentification score) task and refers to Gollin's incomplete pictures. The identification and reidentification scores were significantly worse than in normals. Reductions of the rCMRGl in the primary visual fields, and in the secondary visual fields were found. A significant partial correlation with adjustment for age between the reidentification score of the FPT and the rCMRGl of the secondary visual fields (r = -.39, p < .05) in AD patients was found, indicating involvement of the secondary visual cortex in the pathological changes in AD."}
{"id": "7586850", "title": "Positron emission tomographic study of late-onset cryptogenic symptomatic seizures.", "content": "Positron emission tomographic study of late-onset cryptogenic symptomatic seizures. Ten patients with epilepsy of unknown origin, starting after the age of 50 years, and without clear evidence of cognitive decline were studied with positron emission tomography, using the steady state technique with 15O. Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism were significantly decreased in all cortical areas. No focal areas of hypometabolism were detected. Treatment with phenytoin did not influence the results. It is suggested that late-onset seizures could be the premonitory signs of a progressive encephalopathy of unknown origin."}
{"id": "7579751", "title": "Functional caudate imaging in symptomatic Huntington's disease: positron emission tomography versus single-photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Functional caudate imaging in symptomatic Huntington's disease: positron emission tomography versus single-photon emission computed tomography. Functional neuroimaging with positron emission tomography previously demonstrated reduced caudate glucose metabolism in virtually all symptomatic patients with Huntington's disease (HD). Single-photon emission computed tomography studies of brain blood flow also have shown caudate abnormalities in patients with HD. The present study compared these two functional imaging modalities in 6 patients with HD who had been symptomatic for fewer than 5 years. All patients had significantly impaired caudate-thalamus and caudate-whole-slice glucose metabolism ratios as measured by positron emission tomography. However, only 3 had clearly abnormal caudate-thalamus activity ratios and 2 had clearly abnormal caudate-whole-slice ratios on single-photon emission computed tomography. These findings indicate that single-photon emission computed tomography imaging of caudate blood flow is a less sensitive indicator of caudate dysfunction in early HD than is positron emission tomography imaging of caudate glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "7579750", "title": "Basal ganglia and frontal lobe glucose metabolism. A reproducibility positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Basal ganglia and frontal lobe glucose metabolism. A reproducibility positron emission tomography study. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) is frequently used to study the metabolic correlates of movement and mental disorders. These studies generally focus on changes in the frontal cortex and the basal ganglia. The reproducibility of glucose metabolism estimates in these structures was tested in 13 normal subjects studied at rest using a standard and simple protocol. A reproducible dorsoventral metabolic gradient was demonstrated in the frontal cortex. Such a gradient was not present in the basal ganglia when the upper region of interest in the caudate nucleus, where the lower metabolic rate of glucose was probably attributable to partial volume effects, was not considered. Absolute values of glucose metabolic rates varied by 6.4 to 12.5% in the frontal cortex and by 6.8 to 14.7% in the basal ganglia. Variations in normalized values in the basal ganglia ranged from 4.0 to 8.6%. The number of subjects required to detect statistical differences in group comparison or in test-retest studies was calculated for different anticipated levels of change. With the variability detected in this experiment, less than 10 subjects were expected to be sufficient to detect a 15% change in most regions and in both types of studies."}
{"id": "7573586", "title": "SPECT findings on psychosis in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "SPECT findings on psychosis in Alzheimer's disease. This study examined whether psychosis in Alzheimer's disease is associated with cerebral perfusion patterns appreciable by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans. All cooperative outpatients enrolled in an Alzheimer's disease research center with the diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease and a Clinical Dementia Rating of mild or moderate were interviewed with their primary caregivers. Current and past psychiatric functioning was assessed by using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R, and the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale. Patients without premorbid psychosis received SPECT scans, and the scans of the patients with delusions or hallucinations (N = 30) were compared to the scans of patients without these symptoms (N = 16). The patients with delusions (N = 29) had hypoperfusion of the left frontal lobe in relation to the right frontal lobe. The patients with hallucinations (N = 10) had hypoperfusion in the parietal lobe. Psychotic patients with Alzheimer's disease had a pattern of cerebral blood flow deficits significantly different from that of nonpsychotic patients. This suggests that patterns of cerebral dysfunction may be expressed symptomatically as psychosis."}
{"id": "7550598", "title": "Dietary changes, compulsions and sexual behavior in frontotemporal degeneration.", "content": "Dietary changes, compulsions and sexual behavior in frontotemporal degeneration. The occurrence of weight gain, sweet and carbohydrate craving, hyposexuality, and compulsions in frontal lobe dementia (FLD) compared to Alzheimer's disease (AD) was evaluated. FLD is a progressive dementia with a high rate of misdiagnosis and therefore better diagnostic criteria for FLD are needed. Fourteen patients meeting research criteria for AD were compared to 14 with suspected FLD. All had cerebral perfusion measured with xenon-133 and imaged with HMPAO using brain-dedicated SPECT. The FLD group showed frontotemporal and AD posterior temporoparietal hypoperfusion. The primary caregivers were queried regarding weight gain, sweet/carbohydrate preference, sexual drive, and compulsions. Differences were compared with Fisher's exact test. The following was found in FLD versus AD: Weight gain in FLD patients amounted to 64% (AD 7%), carbohydrate craving was 79% (vs. 0%) and compulsive behavior 64% (vs. 14%). The differences for these symptoms were statistically significant, whereas for the symptoms increased sexual drive (8 vs. 8%) and reduced sexual drive (54 vs. 23%) no significant difference could be found. In FLD the first symptoms were often dietary changes or hyposexuality. Compulsions were more bizarre and severely disabling in FLD than in AD. Dietary changes, hyposexuality, and disabling compulsions are prominent early symptoms in FLD but not AD. The cause of these symptoms may be due to both frontal and subcortical serotonin loss and dysfunction of the anterior temporal lobes."}
{"id": "7500099", "title": "Heterogeneous cerebral glucose metabolism in normal pressure hydrocephalus.", "content": "Heterogeneous cerebral glucose metabolism in normal pressure hydrocephalus. The regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglu) has never been investigated in large consecutive groups of patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), a potentially treatable form of dementia with an unpredictable outcome after shunt surgery. Using PET and 18F-2-fluorodeoxyglucose, rCMRglu was studied in 18 patients who fulfilled hydrodynamic criteria for NPH and in whom a biopsy of the frontal cortex was obtained. When compared with an age matched group of 11 healthy subjects, the patients with NPH showed a significant rCMRglu reduction in all cortical and subcortical regions of interest. Individual metabolic patterns, however, disclosed a large topographical heterogeneity. Furthermore, histopathological examination identified Alzheimer's disease or cerebrovascular disease in six cases, and no parenchymal disease or non-specific degenerative processes in the remaining 12. After separating the patients according to the histological diagnosis, the rCMRglu patterns were still heterogeneous, the abnormalities ranging from focal to diffuse in both subgroups. After shunt operation, 11 patients did not improve or worsened clinically. Six patients improved; of those, two had Alzheimer changes and two cerebrovascular changes in their biopsy. The metabolic pattern of these six patients did not differ from the rest of the NPH group. The results indicate that the NPH syndrome may be non-specifically associated with different degenerative disorders. The metabolic heterogeneity, together with the heterogeneous histopathological findings, indicate the necessity of reevaluating the pathogenesis of the NPH syndrome, and may account for the high variability in the success rate of shunt surgery series."}
{"id": "7484078", "title": "Tomographic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow in progressive supranuclear palsy and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Tomographic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow in progressive supranuclear palsy and Parkinson's disease. Intellectual changes observed in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) are sometimes seen with lesser intensity in Parkinson's disease (PD). Cognitive impairment of PSP has been attributed to a frontal lobe dysfunction explaining the frontal cortex hypometabolism detected by PET. To establish whether this frontal hypometabolism is more pronounced in PSP than in PD, we compared frontal and temporo-parietal cerebral blood flow (CBF) indexes studied by SPECT using Tc99m HmPAO in 18 PSP, 18 PD and 8 control subjects. For each patient neuropsychological performances were also assessed. A significant left frontal hypoperfusion was observed in PSP (mean index value: 0.78 +/- 0.03, p < 0.01) and PD (0.78 +/- 0.04, p < 0.05) as compared to controls (0.84 +/- 0.03), whereas there was no difference between PSP and PD. No correlation was discovered between neuropsychological performances and frontal cortical index changes. This frontal uptake reduction of Tc99m HmPAO in PSP and PD could result from a disconnection phenomenon secondary to subcortical lesions. In both groups mean frontal indexes showed only a left frontal hypoperfusion suggesting that subcortical structures might be asymmetrically involved in early stages of the diseases. The lack of difference for indexe values between PSP and PD might be explained by the difference between the mean disease duration: 4.3 years for the PSP and 7.8 years for the PD. It might also suggest that frontal CBF reduction exists in the same proportions in PD and PSP, but at a later stage in the former case."}
{"id": "7477607", "title": "[Premorbid intelligence diagnosis with the MWT-B(Multiple Choice Word Test-B) in patients with Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[Premorbid intelligence diagnosis with the MWT-B(Multiple Choice Word Test-B) in patients with Alzheimer disease]. The usefulness of the multiple-choice word test (MWT-B) was tested as a measure for premorbid intelligence in 107 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease following the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The patients were allocated to three groups according to severity of dementia: mild (n = 40), moderate (n = 41) and severe (n = 26). Dementia severity was assessed with the Mini Mental State Test (MMST). The mean of the raw values of the MWT-B (maximum 37) in the group with mild dementia was 28.0 (SD = 5.57), in the group with moderate dementia 23.3 (SD = 8.01), and in the group with severe dementia 6.7 (SD = 8.44), indicating a parallel worsening with the other tests. The MWT-B value of the whole sample correlated with the MMST value (r = 0.70); a significant correlation still existed in patients with mild and moderate dementia. These results confirm that the MWT-B is relevant for dementia. The rate of cerebral glucose metabolism, measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and 18F-fluorodeoxy-glucose (FDG) correlated significantly with the MWT-B scores in the Alzheimer-sensitive temporoparietal region (r = 0.43; P = 0.001) and frontal brain region (r = 0.37; P < 0.05). Whether or not it can be used as a screening measure of dementia will have to be decided on the basis of its scales for sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "8271029", "title": "Altered cerebral energy metabolism in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study.", "content": "Altered cerebral energy metabolism in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study. In an effort to better understand the metabolic basis for the reported decreases in regional cerebral cortex glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease, glucose utilization oxygen consumption and regional cerebral blood flow were examined. Nine patients with Alzheimer's disease and nine age-matched normal controls were imaged using 18F-labeled deoxyglucose and 15O-labeled gases. Regional analysis of the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglu), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) revealed that these values were significantly low in the frontal, parietal and temporal regions. The parietotemporal region had an abnormally high metabolic ratio (CMRO2/CMRglu), while the frontal, sensorimotor and occipital visual cortices had a metabolic ratio similar to that of the normal controls. These findings suggest that the abnormal parietotemporal metabolism in Alzheimer's disease involves a metabolic shift from glycolytic to oxidative metabolism. This impairment of glucose degradation may be the basis for synoptic dysfunction underlying the impairment observed in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8206464", "title": "[Functional significance of calcinosis of the basal ganglia via positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Functional significance of calcinosis of the basal ganglia via positron emission tomography]. Four patients with symmetrical basal ganglia calcification of different etiologies detected by cranial computed tomography (CT) were clinically evaluated and underwent positron emission tomography (PET) with (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). All patients were subjected to extensive laboratory investigation and neuropsychological testing. In two patients we found typical laboratory signs of hypoparathyroidism, the other two patients had no endocrinological alterations. Changes of glucose metabolism were mainly detected only in calcified tissues. Particularly in two patients with test psychologically confirmed psychomotoric retardation we did not find any cortical dysfunction. In conclusion, basal ganglia calcification in contrast to primary degenerative diseases has no influence on metabolic function in tissue that is not calcified."}
{"id": "8174508", "title": "[Affective disorders and dementia of the frontal lobe type. Hypothesis of a pathogenic relationship].", "content": "[Affective disorders and dementia of the frontal lobe type. Hypothesis of a pathogenic relationship]. The evolution of some dysthymic states towards dementia is now rarely considered whereas it was well known at the beginning of the century. In French the final stage of this evolution was known as \"d\u00e9mence v\u00e9sanique\". In recent years it has been noted that a proportion of patients with presenile dementia do not have Alzheimer's disease (AD) but a particular type of cognitive impairment., called dementia of the frontal lobe type (DFT), characterised by clinical and neuropsychological signs of frontal lobe disorder as well as an anterior defect of cerebral perfusion or metabolism. The onset of DFT is insiduous and marked by personality changes and inappropriate affect. It has not yet been reported as starting with true dysthymic disorders. PATIENTS AND METHODS. Ten right handed patients (F/M = 9/1) became dysthymic in their fifties (m = 49.8 + 7.6 yr). All initially met the DSM III-R criteria for mood disorders. They were all treated with the standard drugs or ECT. Although initially responsive all the patients relapsed and their dysthymic disorders became less typical in presentation. At a mean age of 63.6 +/- 2.9 yrs a particular type of dementia became evident. None of the patients had a previous history of mood disorder or a family history of dementia. The demented patients received thorough clinical examinations and 8/10 were tested with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS). All had XCT and HMPAO-SPECT scans using a rotating gamma camera. Three patients had a MRI Scan. RESULTS. The main symptoms were apathy and a lack of spontaneity as a result of which the patients were no longer able to live alone. HMPAO-SPECT: All the patients had clear hypoperfusion of the frontal and temporal lobes with seven showing a left predominance. XCT: A moderate degree of cortical atrophy, more pronounced in the frontal lobes, was observed in 6 patients. In 3 of them a previous XCT scan had been normal. MRI: Subcortical white matter hyperintensities were seen in the 3 patients examined. DISCUSSION. Although our patients do not probably form, with regard to a etiology a homogeneous group, they share common characteristics which are very similar to those which differentiates DFT from AD. We postulate that some dysthymic disorders of the presenium might represent the initial stage of this type of dementia. This hypothesis relies on the evidence for frontal dysregulation in mood disorders as demonstrated, for example, by PET studies. In these cases the cortical abnormalities usually disappear as the dysthymia improves and are considered functional phenomena. They may correspond to the mechanism of deafferentation (or diaschisis). This implies a primary lesion, presumably located at a subcortical level (for instance a white matter lesion) producing a disruption of function in a distant (initially) intact brain region. As a supplementary hypothesis we propose that with time, and for as yet unknown reasons, the frontal hypoperfusion in our patients lost its reversibility and that, as a result, a particular type of dementia became manifest. In some cases this diaschisis protractiva may lead to secondary cortical atrophy. CONCLUSIONS. A DFT was found in 10 patients who had become dysthymic in their fifties. A pathogenic hypothesis i.e. diaschisis protractiva, is proposed, based on the evidence of neuroimaging studies."}
{"id": "8158175", "title": "Heterogeneity of neocortical cerebral blood flow deficits in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study.", "content": "Heterogeneity of neocortical cerebral blood flow deficits in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with high resolution brain dedicated single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) and [99mTc]-d,l-hexamethyl-propylene-amine-oxime (HMPAO) in 25 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and in 25 control subjects, selected according to rigorous inclusion and exclusion criteria. The aim was to analyse the topography of rCBF deficits in individual patients. In the group of patients with Alzheimer's disease as a whole, global CBF was reduced, but a factorial analysis of variance did not show disproportionate reduction of rCBF in any brain region. A parametric analysis of the rCBF data in individual patients was carried out with reference to normal values for internal rCBF ratios and to 13 different abnormal rCBF patterns. These theoretical patterns were predefined by showing significant hypoperfusion in at least one, or in any relevant combination of two, three, or four, of four major brain regions (a left and right frontal and a left and right posterior region). All patients with Alzheimer's disease and none of the control subjects had an abnormal rCBF pattern. Eleven of the 13 different patterns were seen in the patients. Frontal changes were seen in 19 (76%) of the patients, more often than previously reported. No single Alzheimer's disease pattern could be derived from our data. The number of regions with hypoperfusion, but not the presence of frontal changes, correlated significantly with the duration of disease. It is concluded that a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease is associated with heterogeneous patterns of rCBF deficits as measured with SPECT and [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO. This heterogeneity may reflect different stages of the disease or cognitive subtypes and help explain published discrepancies concerning the topography of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease. An analysis of individual rCBF data may add important information in the investigation of diseases with heterogeneous effects on the brain."}
{"id": "8156085", "title": "Clinical deterioration in probable Alzheimer's disease correlates with progressive metabolic impairment of association areas.", "content": "Clinical deterioration in probable Alzheimer's disease correlates with progressive metabolic impairment of association areas. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRG1) measured by positron emission tomography of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose was studied longitudinally (interval ranging from 6 to 27 months) in 25 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). A significant decline of rCMRG1 was noted in the whole brain (p = 0.02) which was most pronounced in the temporoparietal (p = 0.002), frontal (p = 0.01), superior parietal (p = 0.01) and occipital (p = 0.03) association cortex. A similar decline was also present in the thalamus (p = 0.04) but not in the primary visual and sensorimotor cortex, basal ganglia, cerebellum and brainstem. The changes of rCMRG1 in the temporoparietal, frontal and occipital association cortex were related to the change of the Mini Mental State Examination score (temporoparietal: r = 0.49, p = 0.01; frontal: r = 0.40, p = 0.05; occipital: r = 0.44, p = 0.03). The rate of clinical and metabolic decline was not related to age at onset, sex, family history or duration of disease. The results suggest that clinical deterioration and metabolic impairment in probable AD are closely related and dependent on progression of pathological changes in cortical association areas."}
{"id": "8155012", "title": "Structural and functional brain imaging in Friedreich's ataxia.", "content": "Structural and functional brain imaging in Friedreich's ataxia. Although the major neuropathologic changes in Friedreich's ataxia (FA) affect the spinal cord and peripheral nerves, we previously found abnormally increased glucose metabolism in the cerebral hemispheres in ambulatory patients and a return toward normal metabolism in nonambulatory patients. To determine whether brain atrophy accompanies the decline in cerebral glucose metabolism in FA and whether the degree of atrophy and the extent of decline in cerebral glucose metabolism are related to clinical severity. Prospective series. University referral center. Twenty-two patients with FA and 26 patients with dizziness, headache, or minor acute head trauma, serving as control subjects, who underwent computed tomographic scans that were interpreted as normal. In patients with FA and control subjects, regional atrophy was assessed using subjective and objective measures on computed tomographic scans. In patients with FA, local cerebral glucose metabolism was measured with positron emission tomography, and clinical severity was assessed with a clinical rating scale. Atrophy in the cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, and brain stem was significantly greater in patients with FA than in control subjects, and the degree of atrophy correlated with the clinical severity. Local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose declined significantly from the initially elevated levels in the thalamus, cerebellum, and brain stem in correlation with increasing clinical severity. The structure and function of wide-spread brain regions including the cerebral hemispheres are abnormal in FA, and these abnormalities correlate with the clinical severity."}
{"id": "8126499", "title": "Contralateral cerebellar hypometabolism: a predictor for stroke outcome?", "content": "Contralateral cerebellar hypometabolism: a predictor for stroke outcome? Contralateral cerebellar hypometabolism (CCH) is a well established remote functional effect of cerebral damage. Because CCH has been reported to be reversible in acute stroke in at least some patients, the value of cerebellar metabolic asymmetry (CbMA; a reflection of the degree of CCH) as a predictor of stroke outcome has been assessed. Measurements of cerebellar oxygen consumption were performed by positron emission tomography (PET) in 16 patients within 5-30 hours of onset of their first ever middle cerebral artery territory stroke, and again 13-56 days later in 12 survivors. The neurological state was quantified at the time of each PET study and at day 60, with both the Mathew and Orgogozo scales. In the early PET study, the CbMAs ranged from around 0% to nearly 50% (individually significant at p < 0.05 in 9/16 patients) but were neither strongly nor consistently correlated with neurological outcome or recovery at day 60. Similarly, the changes in CbMAs from the early to the late PET study were not correlated with the concomitant neurological evolution. At the late PET study, however, there were excellent positive correlations between CbMAs and both neurological status and size of infarction (assessed by CT in the chronic stage). The correlation with neurological status was explained by the correlation with size of infarction. The poor predictive value of CbMAs in the early PET study may be partly because the cerebral metabolic disturbance might still be evolving at this early stage in some cases. Despite this lack of a strong quantitative link between CbMAs at the early PET study and outcome, the outcome was good in all the patients who did not exhibit significant CCH, suggesting that lack of CCH may predict good outcome in acute middle cerebral artery stroke."}
{"id": "8113882", "title": "Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with PET.", "content": "Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with PET. PET studies have demonstrated bilateral temporo-parietal hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in probable and definite Alzheimer's disease (AD), a pattern that may help differentiate AD from other dementias. To evaluate the diagnostic power of cerebral metabolic distribution patterns for \"cortical\" degenerative dementias, PET scans obtained from 129 patients referred for differential diagnosis of dementia were analyzed visually. Sixty-five patients had a final clinical diagnosis of probable AD. Ninety-seven percent (97%) of those had abnormal metabolic scans and 94% showed a suggestive pattern of bilateral or unilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism (with or without frontal involvement). Hypometabolism was unilateral in 23% of patients. Five subjects with a neuropathologically proven diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease had a suggestive metabolic pattern. One of those was an early case with frontal hypometabolism exceeding temporo-parietal involvement. Two patients with Alzheimer's-type dementia had isolated bilateral frontal hypometabolism. This alternative metabolic pattern may correspond to a non-Alzheimer pathology occurring in 10%-20% of patients suffering from clinically probable Alzheimer's disease. Most of the patients with possible but atypical Alzheimer's-type dementia showed isolated bilateral frontal involvement. This metabolic pattern probably corresponds to different diseases, such as Pick's disease, frontal lobe dementia or progressive subcortical gliosis."}
{"id": "8080394", "title": "The dynamics of metabolic change following seizures as measured by positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18.", "content": "The dynamics of metabolic change following seizures as measured by positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18. To examine the time course of alterations in glucose metabolism in relation to the interval from the last seizure, focus laterality, seizure frequency, and seizure type. Metabolic study with the use of positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18. Blinded scan evaluation with use of a standard template. Multivariate regression analysis of positron emission tomographic data. National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, Md. Thirty-two adults with intractable partial epilepsy and lateralized seizure onset documented by video-electroencephalographic monitoring. Normalized metabolic rate for glucose ipsilateral and contralateral to the epileptic focus. The most dramatic changes occurred in inferior temporal regions; the midtemporal region was affected as well. Effects lasting 48 hours were found after both simple and complex partial seizures. The time course was different for the two types of seizures. The inferior temporal metabolic rate ipsilateral to the focus increased compared with the interictal rate during the 24-hour period following simple partial seizures; a nadir occurred in the second 24 hours. The rate then rose to an intermediate level after 48 hours. The relative to an intermediate level after 48 hours. The relative regional increase in ipsilateral metabolism following complex partial seizures persisted for 48 hours before falling. The brain may take longer than 24 hours after a partial seizure to return to its baseline state."}
{"id": "8078635", "title": "The value of HMPAO SPECT scanning in the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease in patients attending a memory clinic.", "content": "The value of HMPAO SPECT scanning in the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease in patients attending a memory clinic. The value of hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) as a diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease (AD) was assessed in 44 patients attending a Memory Clinic. A comprehensive physical and psychiatric examination and detailed neuropsychological tests were used to arrive at a clinical diagnosis, in accordance with NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The mean patient age was 69 (range 59-84) years, and the mean score on the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was 24 (range 7-30). Of 26 patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD, only 15 demonstrated a scan pattern strongly suggestive of AD. Four scans were normal, four showed evidence of ischaemic change and three were in the category 'other', one of which showed bilateral frontal hypoperfusion, but normal temporoparietal flow. Of the eight patients considered by clinical criteria to be non-demented, no scan showed an AD pattern, but three showed an ischaemic pattern. Both of the patients diagnosed clinically as suffering from multi-infarct dementia showed SPECT scan evidence of ischaemic change. Of the remaining eight patients with other clinical diagnoses only one scan suggested AD. We conclude that the HMPAO SPECT scan appearances which arise from AD in the early stages of the disease do not on their own allow the disease to be accurately diagnosed, but they may be useful if interpreted in conjunction with other imaging techniques."}
{"id": "8074128", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. In vitro determination of brain glucose metabolism in the temporal cortex from patients with Alzheimer's disease showed a marked decrease when compared with nondemented, age-matched control subjects. Additional determinations on normal human temporal cortex obtained at autopsy demonstrated an age-dependent decline in the rate of glucose use. These data provide an in vitro correlate for positron emission tomography studies that suggest decreased brain glucose use in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8068438", "title": "[Improved perseveration with amantadine].", "content": "[Improved perseveration with amantadine]. We report here 3 patients who showed marked improvement of clonic and intentional perseverations following the administration of amantadine. Patient 1 had a subacute encephalitis of unknown etiology. Magnetic resonance imaging documented lesions predominantly in the bilateral putaminal and frontal subcortical areas, and positron emission tomography revealed frontal glucose hypometabolism. Daily amantadine hydrochloride of 200 mg with or without 10 mg of trihexyphenidyl, reduced his clonic and intentional perseverations. The diagnosis of patients 2 and 3 was vascular dementia with multiple subcortical ischemic lesions, and single photon emission CTs showed reduced cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobes. Their clonic perseveration subsided and intentional perseveration disappeared after the administration of 150 mg of daily amantadine hydrochloride. Associated Parkinsonism and confusional state also improved in patient 1, but not in patients 2 or 3. Amantadine increases the pre-synaptic synthesis and release of dopamine, and works as a dopamine system activator. Our findings suggest that the disturbance of dopamine system, especially meso-limbofrontal projection, has some contributions to the perseveration of these patients."}
{"id": "8064320", "title": "Metabolic effects of scopolamine and physostigmine in human brain measured by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Metabolic effects of scopolamine and physostigmine in human brain measured by positron emission tomography. Two of the more consistent findings in Alzheimer's disease are depressions in frontal and temporoparietal glucose metabolism and a loss of cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert. Nonetheless, cholinergic replacement strategies have had only minimal therapeutic successes. Whether this situation reflects the limited contribution of cholinergic deafferentation to the intellectual decline or the meager ability of the pharmaceuticals tested to exert their intended pharmacologic action remains unclear. To address this question, the distribution of cerebral abnormalities found in untreated Alzheimer patients, as revealed by positron emission tomography following 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose, were compared with the pattern of functional changes produced by drugs that block or stimulate cholinergic function. Physostigmine was administered to 6 Alzheimer patients to increase brain cholinergic neurotransmission. The anticholinergic scopolamine, given to normal volunteers, was administered to 6 age-matched controls. These data were compared to those obtained from the same subjects while receiving placebo. Amnestic doses of the anticholinergic, scopolamine increased glucose metabolism by up to 20% (p < 0.001) in all brain regions studied, except thalamus. This response contrasted with the metabolic reductions of up to 17% (p < 0.01), especially in parietal and frontal association cortices, occurring in unmedicated Alzheimer patients. Maximum tolerated doses of the anti-cholinesterase, physostigmine, rather than tending to normalize abnormalities in these patients, further reduced cerebral metabolism (p < 0.01) and increased metabolism in thalamus in a pattern inversely correlated (p < 0.001) with that produced by scopolamine. These results fail to support a cholinergic basis for the abnormal metabolic pattern in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8064316", "title": "CT changes associated with normal aging of the human brain.", "content": "CT changes associated with normal aging of the human brain. CT was used to measure changes in cerebral gray and white matter tissue densities associated with normal aging, using a cross-sectional design, in order to provide normative data for comparisons with abnormal aging such as dementias of Alzheimer's and vascular types. Cerebral compartmental densities were measured using plain CT, and their perfusion values were recorded during stable xenon inhalation (CT-CBF), among 81 neurologically and cognitively normal volunteers of different ages. Results led to the conclusion that cortical gray matter tissue densities progressively decline (polio-araiosis) after age 60. Cortical polio-araiosis is coupled with regional hypoperfusion but not with cortical atrophy. It is speculated that the cortical hypodensity identified by CT imaging parallels declines in cortical synaptic density, as reported from autopsy studies using anti-synaptophysin staining of cerebral cortex obtained from normal people above and below age 60. The coupling of cortical hypoperfusion with polio-araiosis is believed to reflect age-related reductions of cortical metabolic demands as reported by PET. During normal aging leuko-araiosis correlates directly with cortical atrophy, suggesting that anterograde axonal degeneration resulting from cortical neuronal dearborization play a role in its causation."}
{"id": "8064302", "title": "Difference of regional cerebral metabolic pattern between presenile and senile dementia of the Alzheimer type: a factor analytic study.", "content": "Difference of regional cerebral metabolic pattern between presenile and senile dementia of the Alzheimer type: a factor analytic study. Positron emission tomographic studies using metabolic ratios to represent the contrast between certain brain regions have shown differences of cerebral glucose metabolism between presenile and senile dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). In this study, factors for regional variance of cerebral metabolism in 61 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were obtained using principal component analysis (PCA). The difference between two age groups of DAT patients according to age at onset < or = 65 years (n = 30) and > 65 years (n = 31) were investigated. A PCA using nine pairs of cerebral regions normalized to cerebellum for reduction of intersubject variability identified five regional factors for cerebral metabolism: one each for the left and right temporo-parietal cortex, and the other three for frontal cortex, primary visual and sensorimotor cortex, and mesial temporal sensorimotor cortex, and mesial temporal cortex. The age groups differed significantly only in the factor for the right temporo-parietal cortex, with a more prominent metabolic reduction in presenile than senile DAT. Severity of dementia was correlated with the factors for the right and left temporo-parietal cortex. The effect of age at onset on glucose metabolism of the right temporo-parietal cortex was independent from that of dementia severity in DAT."}
{"id": "8054492", "title": "Age-associated memory loss: initial neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic findings of a longitudinal study.", "content": "Age-associated memory loss: initial neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic findings of a longitudinal study. To determine the relationships between clinical and brain function in persons with a familial risk for Alzheimer's disease, the authors assessed subjective and objective cognitive abilities, mood state, and cerebral glucose metabolism (using positron emission tomography) in 43 persons with age-associated memory impairment, with and without first-degree relatives with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Subjective complaints of memory loss, mood state ratings, and objective memory measures were similar in persons with a family history of Alzheimer's disease (n = 29) compared to those without such a history (n = 14). Metabolic ratios in the frontal regions correlated with a decrease in a specific type of subjective memory complaint (mnemonics usage; p < .001) and some mood state ratings. These results indicate that parietal and temporal hypometabolism is not evident in persons with mild age-related memory complaints, even when such subjects have a familial risk for Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, self-reports of mnemonics usage may be sensitive indicators of decreased frontal lobe function. Longitudinal study will determine whether such clinical and metabolic measures will predict eventual disease progression."}
{"id": "8053653", "title": "Discordant twins with Parkinson's disease: positron emission tomography and early signs of impaired cognitive circuits.", "content": "Discordant twins with Parkinson's disease: positron emission tomography and early signs of impaired cognitive circuits. We evaluated 7 pairs of twins (2 monozygotic and 5 dizygotic) discordant for Parkinson's disease (PD), of whom the cotwins showed no signs of motor impairment on neurological examination. All subjects underwent positron emission tomographic measurements of cerebral glucose metabolism and dopaminergic, nigrostriatal function following injection of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and L-6-[18F]fluorodopa ([18F]dopa), respectively, as well as testing for anterograde, verbal episodic, and semantic memory performance. Statistical analysis demonstrated significant reduction of striatal [18F]dopa uptake not only in the twin patients with PD but also in all of the cotwins, who showed significantly (p < 0.05) impaired [18F]dopa metabolism in at least one of the striatal measures including caudate, putaminal, and the rostrocaudal putaminal gradient of [18F]dopa uptake. Compared with age-matched controls, regional glucose metabolism was unchanged in all the twins. Neuropsychological testing showed significant (p < 0.05) impairment in verbal memory processing in the twin patients with PD and in 6 of the cotwins. Semantic memory skills were affected in 2 twin patients only. A significant correlation was found between scores obtained in Buschke's Selective Reminding Test and striatal [18F]dopa uptake, further substantiating the role of dopaminergic pathways in memory processing. The present study is the first to reveal not only significant disturbance of nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in verbal episodic memory that is known to be affected in PD. Larger studies with a longitudinal design will be necessary to answer the question of whether cognitive changes found in the cotwin group are signs of incipient PD."}
{"id": "8050774", "title": "[Progress in vascular dementia--an overview of vascular dementia from past to new concepts].", "content": "[Progress in vascular dementia--an overview of vascular dementia from past to new concepts]. This article summarizes various concepts (Binswangers encephalopathy, multiinfarct-dementia, lacunar state, mixed dementia, dementia due to amyloid angiopathy or vasculitis) and classifications (DSM, ICD, ADDTC) on vascular dementia. It reviews historical, clinical, and diagnostic aspects (i.e. neuroradiology, SPECT, PET) as well as therapeutic approaches. The confusing nomenclature on vascular dementia is discussed, considering especially the non-convincing concept of multiinfarct-dementia that often has been misused as a synonym for vascular dementia. Multiinfarct-dementia is now restricted to a syndrome of vascular dementia due to several large vessels strokes. A current definition and classification of vascular dementia as suggested by NINDS-AIREN international workshop is described. It defines criteria consistent with the diagnosis of \"possible\", \"probable\" and \"definite\" vascular dementia based on clinical, radiologic and neuropathologic features. The criteria of \"probable\" vascular dementia include all the following: 1. the presence of dementia and cerebrovascular disease defined by focal signs on neurologic investigation and evidence of relevant cerebrovascular disease by brain imaging (multiple lacunae, extensive white matter lesions, multiple large-vessels infarcts or a strategically placed infarct) 2. A relationship between dementia and cerebrovascular disease (onset of dementia within 3 months following a recognized stroke; abrupt deterioration, stepwise progression). This classification of vascular dementia emphasises pathogenetic aspects and includes dementia resulting from small- and large-vessels disease as well as hypoperfusion, haemorrhagic dementia and dementia due to still unknown factors. Operational criteria for the frequent Binswangers encephalopathy--a prototype of vascular dementia--are presented. Thereby a basis for further research and discussion in this exciting area should have been formed."}
{"id": "8038871", "title": "Long-term effects of phosphatidylserine, pyritinol, and cognitive training in Alzheimer's disease. A neuropsychological, EEG, and PET investigation.", "content": "Long-term effects of phosphatidylserine, pyritinol, and cognitive training in Alzheimer's disease. A neuropsychological, EEG, and PET investigation. 70 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were randomly allocated to four groups: 17 patients received only social support, 18 cognitive training twice a week, in 17 cognitive training was combined with pyritinol 2 x 600 mg/day and in 18 cognitive training was combined with phosphatidylserine 2 x 200 mg/day. Treatment duration was 6 months. Before and after treatment, the patients underwent neuropsychological testing as well as measurement of the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose using positron emission tomography and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Before treatment the groups were comparable in respect to resting and activated glucose pattern achieved by a visual recognition task. Electrophysiological changes were assessed as EEG power, globally and in 4 frequency bands. This 6-month study in four groups of patients with Alzheimer's disease indicated that phosphatidylserine treatment has an effect on different measures of brain function. Since neuropsychological improvements were best documented after 8 and 16 weeks and faded towards the end of the treatment period, it must be concluded that this symptomatic therapy is mainly of short-term benefit and was overcome by the progressive pathological changes at the end of the treatment period."}
{"id": "7999319", "title": "A novel mechanism of phenotypic heterogeneity demonstrated by the effect of a polymorphism on a pathogenic mutation in the PRNP (prion protein gene).", "content": "A novel mechanism of phenotypic heterogeneity demonstrated by the effect of a polymorphism on a pathogenic mutation in the PRNP (prion protein gene). Fatal familial insomnia (FFI) is a subacute dementing illness originally described in 1986. The phenotypic characteristics of this disease include progressive untreatable insomnia, dysautonomia, endocrine and motor disorders, preferential hypometabolism in the thalamus as determined by PET scanning, and selective thalamic atrophy. These characteristics readily distinguish FFI from other previously described neurodegenerative conditions. Recently, FFI was shown to be linked to a mutation in the prion protein gene (PRNP) at codon 178, which results in the substitution of asparagine for aspartic acid. As such, FFI represents the most recent addition to the growing family of prion protein-related diseases. The mutation that results in FFI had previously been linked to a subtype of familial Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (178Asn CJD). The genotypic basis for the difference between FFI and 178AsnCJD lies in a polymorphism at codon 129 of the mutant prion protein gene: 129Met 178Asn results in FFI, 129Val 178Asn in CJD. The finding that the combination of a polymorphism and a single pathogenic mutation result in two distinct conditions represents a significant advance in our understanding of phenotypic variability."}
{"id": "7989291", "title": "The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a question of image?", "content": "The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a question of image? The most common cause of dementia in the developed world is Alzheimer's disease. Histopathology is required to confirm diagnosis, but most evaluations of the accuracy of clinical criteria and neuroimaging in the diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type are without such confirmation. The average specificity of clinical criteria alone is about 75%. This paper discusses the contribution of simple structural (x-ray computed tomography [CT]) and functional (Tc-99m-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]) imaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in 71 histopathologically confirmed cases (47 with Alzheimer's disease, 16 with other dementias, 8 controls) and 84 living controls. Medial temporal lobe atrophy assessed by temporal lobe-oriented CT gave 94% sensitivity and 93% specificity, while parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT revealed 96% sensitivity and 89% specificity. The combination of both changes yielded a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 97%. These investigations clearly enhance diagnostic accuracy, can be readily applied in the clinical situation, and could be used in epidemiologic studies of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "7987785", "title": "Agenesis of corpus callosum and dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a review and case report.", "content": "Agenesis of corpus callosum and dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a review and case report. This paper describes a previously sufficiently functioning 57 year old man who presented with a recent onset of frontal behaviour. Partial agenesis of corpus callosum was an incidental finding on a computerized tomography scan. The EEG was within normal limits and neuropsychological testing did not reveal any interhemispheric disconnection. A SPECT-Scan revealed bilateral hypoperfusion, consistent with Alzheimer's dementia. Normal functioning up to 50 years of age and a later manifestation of Alzheimer's disease along with agenesis of carpus callosum is of clinical interest as such an association has not been published."}
{"id": "7981593", "title": "Cognitive impairment in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Cognitive function and dystrophin gene mutations were investigated in 50 DMD patients (mean age 11.1 yr; range 3.5-20.3). General intelligence assessment showed 31% of patients with Wechsler full intelligence quotient (FIQ) lower than 75 (normal values: 100 +/- 14), and only 24% with appropriate FIQ level. Modal distribution of Wechsler verbal, performance, and FIQs, and Raven IQs was normal. Verbal IQ was more affected than performance IQ (PIQ) only in the younger group of subjects. Low PIQ correlated with the presence of macroglossia, detected in 13 out of 50 patients. Impairment of productive language was of non-dysphasic nature and correlated with defects of short-term memory, which was also affected in non-verbal skills. DMD patients shared the same spectrum of neuropsychological defects, regardless of whether they were or were not mentally retarded. The proportion of patients with dystrophin gene deletions was 64%. No statistically significant correlations were found between genetic data and psychometric assessment. Finally, (18F)-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography studies demonstrated cerebellar hypometabolism in all the DMD patients examined and variable involvement of associative cortical areas. These findings suggest a possible role of the cerebral and cerebellar hypometabolism in the cognitive impairment of DMD."}
{"id": "7964885", "title": "Cerebral network underlying unilateral motor neglect: evidence from positron emission tomography.", "content": "Cerebral network underlying unilateral motor neglect: evidence from positron emission tomography. In 4 male patients (age range 50-73 years) with unilateral motor hemineglect as a sequelae of circumscribed cerebral infarction, depressions of the regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) were mapped to identify the metabolically affected cerebral structures. Motor neglect was defined according to Castaigne by lack of spontaneous and pain-induced motor activity on one side of the body in the absence of paresis, pyramidal signs, and sensory loss. The depressions of the rCMRGlu as determined by positron emission tomography (PET) were found to exceed the areas of structural damage but to be restricted to the affected cerebral hemisphere. Significant mean rCMRGlu depressions followed a focal pattern involving the premotor, prefrontal, parietal and cingulate cortex, as well as the thalamus. In correspondence to the lack of significant mean rCMRGlu depressions in primary sensorimotor cortex, basal ganglia, and cerebellum the cortico-spinal pathway was spared as indicated by preserved magnetic evoked motor potentials. Our data provide evidence suggesting that motor hemineglect is a disturbance in a cerebral network of higher order cortical areas subserving motor activity in the presence of an intact motor cortical output system."}
{"id": "7964813", "title": "Primary amnesia of insidious onset with subsequent stabilisation.", "content": "Primary amnesia of insidious onset with subsequent stabilisation. A patient had a slowly developing amnesic syndrome that remained substantially unchanged during the two and a half years of observation. Intellectual skills were excellent and there was no language, perception, praxis, or calculation deficit. The memory impairment involved verbal and visual learning, sparing spatial learning and, to a large extent, retrograde memory. Magnetic resonance imaging was normal, but PET showed a hypometabolism of the left temporal mesial region and thalamus. This case extends the spectrum of monosymptomatic cognitive disorders, previously reported in the area of language, praxis, and visual recognition, to amnesia."}
{"id": "7953590", "title": "Spielmeyer-Vogt (Batten, Spielmeyer-Sj\u00f6gren) disease. Distinctive patterns of cerebral glucose utilization.", "content": "Spielmeyer-Vogt (Batten, Spielmeyer-Sj\u00f6gren) disease. Distinctive patterns of cerebral glucose utilization. We have studied seven patients with Spielmeyer-Vogt disease (SV), aged 11-29 years, using PET and 2-deoxy-2[18F]fluoro-D-glucose. Five patients showed a distinctive age-related progression with decreased metabolic activity starting in the calcarine area and spreading rostrally to the entire cortex, leaving normal uptake only in the basal ganglia and brainstem of the oldest patients. Calcarine hypometabolism was mild in the youngest patient. All patients, including the youngest when the study was repeated 2 years later, had significantly decreased calcarine metabolic activity (P = 0.002). Two patients had PET patterns markedly different from the five others, with significantly decreased metabolic activity in most brain areas. Both patients may represent a new SV variant. An adult pathological control with congenital amaurosis showed normal cerebral metabolic activity in all areas. Two patients had older sisters, one now deceased, the other not available for study, who presented a rapid regression associated with epilepsy. Phenytoin and carbamazepine probably caused increased seizure activity and faster regression. The younger siblings treated with phenobarbital monotherapy had few seizures and maintained motor functions 5-8 years longer compared with their respective sisters. While the clinical course made obvious that some areas, such as the macula, are damaged before others, the progression from the calcarine area to the more anterior regions (but sparing the basal ganglia) provides unexpected insights into selective vulnerability of neurons that will allow a more precise way of monitoring individual patients."}
{"id": "7936057", "title": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia.", "content": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia. There have been several reports of decreased regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in Parkinson's disease (PD), although others find no differences between PD patients and controls. Differences in the cognitive status of the PD patients may account for some of these inconsistencies. We report the results of a PET study using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to measure rCMRglc in eight nondemented PD patients, six of whom were receiving dopaminergic medications, and eight age-matched control subjects. We scanned one tomographic level through the temporal lobes that included both temporal neocortex and mesial temporal cortex, and one tomographic level through the basal ganglia that included frontal and parietal cortex. Previously determined rate constants and an operational equation were used to determine rCMRglc. On average, rCMRglc values were 23% below control values for all regions studied, with the greatest differences in posterior brain regions (visual association cortex, primary visual cortex, and parietal cortex) and thalamus. These results indicate that PD patients may show neocortical hypometabolism, especially in posterior brain regions, in the absence of any demonstrable cognitive deficits."}
{"id": "7919196", "title": "The amygdala's contribution to memory--a study on two patients with Urbach-Wiethe disease.", "content": "The amygdala's contribution to memory--a study on two patients with Urbach-Wiethe disease. The consequences of primary amygdaloid damage on memory performance are described in terms of neuropsychological, CT, MRI and PET results of two patients, a brother and a sister. Both had circumscribed, bilaterally symmetrical damage confined to the amygdaloid region, while the hippocampal formation and other brain structures were intact. PET-imaging furthermore revealed an overall decrease in glucose metabolism which was particularly apparent at the cingular and thalamic levels. Although neither patient was amnesic, both showed memory impairments in selective tests. In one patient these impairments were more pronounced and they were accompanied by marked affective-emotional fluctuations. Our results suggest that the amygdaloid region is a bottle-neck structure that confers an affective flavour to memories, thereby enhancing the probability of their long term storage."}
{"id": "7916916", "title": "A double FDG/PET study of the effects of scopolamine in older adults.", "content": "A double FDG/PET study of the effects of scopolamine in older adults. Two consecutive positron emission scans were done in one session using a double injection method of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose administration to examine the effects of the antimuscarinic drug scopolamine on cerebral glucose metabolism in ten older adults. Scopolamine causes temporary memory impairment, and its effects have been used to model aspects of the cognitive impairment that occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cortical metabolic rates of patients with AD have been reported to be depressed, especially in parietal, temporal, and frontal association areas. After scopolamine administration to the elderly volunteers, absolute and normalized glucose metabolic rates were depressed in prefrontal and occipital regions and increased in parietal-occipital cortical regions and a left middle temporal region. These changes in the older volunteers are generally not consistent with changes seen in AD. We conclude that deficits in muscarinic system function may contribute to some but not all of the hypometabolic changes seen in AD patients."}
{"id": "7893375", "title": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease with dementia: severe cerebral metabolic depression revealed by PET.", "content": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease with dementia: severe cerebral metabolic depression revealed by PET. The Cerebral Metabolic Rate of Glucose (CMRGlu) was measured with positron emission tomography and 18F-FDG in a patient with Marchiafava-Bignami Disease (MBD)-related dementia. Despite MRI evidence of lesions essentially limited to the corpus callosum (CC), but consistent with the cognitive pattern of cortical dementia, the CMRGlu was markedly reduced in the frontal and temporo-parieto-occipital association cortices. Disruption of cortico-cortical networks crossing the CC presumably contributed to, but may not in and by itself explain, the severity of the clinical-metabolic findings in this patient. An additional role could be played by microscopic white matter lesions and/or neocortical neuronal loss, which have been occasionally observed in post-mortem studies of MBD patients."}
{"id": "7878321", "title": "[Subcortical dementia of the Neumann type. Contribution of diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Subcortical dementia of the Neumann type. Contribution of diagnostic imaging]. A 36 year-old patient presented with a dementia of frontal type, gait disturbances, incontinence and a pseudo-bulbar palsy, which caused death at age 40. Brain biopsy of the frontal lobe showed an extensive deep subcortical gliosis. A high level of GFAP was detected by immunoblotting in the biopsy. Clinical and neuropathological observations are similar to cases described as Neumann Progressive Subcortical Gliosis. Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography showed a bilateral frontotemporal hypoperfusion, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging large periventricular and subcortical hyperintensities in both hemispheres, the brainstem and the cerebellum. The hyperintensities on T2-weighted MR images might be related to the intense gliosis. The contribution of such imaging data to diagnosis must be confirmed by other clinico-pathological cases."}
{"id": "7828614", "title": "HMPAO SPET and FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: comparison of perfusion and metabolic pattern.", "content": "HMPAO SPET and FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: comparison of perfusion and metabolic pattern. Positron emission tomography (PET) of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and single-photon emission tomography (SPET) of 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) were performed under identical resting conditions within 3 h in 20 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 12 patients with vascular dementia (VD) and 13 normal persons. In the temporoparietal association cortex similar impairment of relative regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGl) and relative HMPAO uptake (rCBF) was found. In addition PET showed hypometabolism in the occipital association cortex. The functional pattern was condensed to a ratio of regional values of association areas divided by regional values of structures that are typically less affected by AD. In normals this ratio was significantly related to age for PET metabolic data (r = -0.66, P = 0.01). The ratio was significantly lower in AD than in VD and controls for both rCMRGl and rCBF. In AD only, the metabolic ratio was related to severity of dementia (r = 0.54, P = 0.003) and age (r = 0.64, P = 0.003). Metabolic differences between normals and AD patients were less obvious in old age. In contrast, there were no significant correlations between the perfusion ratio and severity of dementia or age. Comparing the metabolic and perfusion ratio by receiver operating characteristic curves, PET differentiated AD from normals only marginally better than SPET. Differentiation between AD and VD was much better achieved by PET. Our results suggest that both PET and SPET can distinguish AD patients from controls, whereas for differentiation between AD and VD SPET is of little value."}
{"id": "7827322", "title": "Fluoxetine effects on cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Fluoxetine effects on cerebral glucose metabolism. In a counterbalanced, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 40 mg of fluoxetine was administered to four healthy adult volunteers (three men, one woman; age range 20-39 years), 90 min before injection of 6-7.5 mCi of [18F]-2-deoxyglucose to measure cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglu). Subjects were engaged in a visual monitoring task shortly before and during scanning with a PETT-VI tomograph. Global CMRglu did not differ when placebo (8.93 +/- 0.96 mg 100 g-1 min-1) was compared to fluoxetine (8.22 +/- 0.86 mg 100 g-1 min-1; paired t-test = 0.82, df = 3, p < 0.48). However, statistical parametric mapping of differences in CMRglu between placebo and fluoxetine conditions revealed regional effects of fluoxetine shown by decreased metabolism in the amygdaloid complex, hippocampal formation and ventral striatum, and by increased metabolism centered in the right superior parietal lobe (Brodmann area 7). Parametric mapping for use in PET studies of glucose metabolism represents a significant new tool for studying drug effects in humans."}
{"id": "7823403", "title": "[Neuroimaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. We sought to identify a marker for Alzheimer's disease (AD) for antemortem diagnosis. To determine whether the detection of reduced blood flow in the parietotemporal cortex, shown by single photon emission CT (SPECT), and of medial temporal lobe atrophy, shown by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), would be useful in diagnosis, we studied 38 patients with AD diagnosed by the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and 26 healthy elderly controls. Parietotemporal hypoperfusion was qualitatively assessed by physicians who were unaware of the clinical diagnosis, and the severity of medial temporal lobe atrophy was quantitated by planimetric and linear measurements. Although an accurate diagnosis of AD was made in 80% or more of the patients by SPECT or MRI studies alone, the combination of SPECT and MRI gave a higher diagnostic accuracy, with a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 92%. Since regional functional or structural changes were detected in 92% of early or mild patients, including possible AD, the combination of SPECT and MRI studies were useful in the early diagnosis of AD. Findings suggest that a functional abnormality in the parietotemporal lobe and an atrophic change in the medial temporal lobe are characteristic of AD, and that SPECT and MIR regional changes may be useful as antemortem diagnostic markers."}
{"id": "7798976", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in neurofibromatosis type 1 assessed with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and PET.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in neurofibromatosis type 1 assessed with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and PET. Cerebral PET with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose has been performed in four patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) to assess the relation between cerebral metabolic activity, MRI, and the presence of neurological symptoms, including seizures, as well as mental and language retardation. Widespread hypometabolism occurred in three of the patients. The lesions on MRI, which were localised in the subcortical white matter and grey structures, had normal rates of glucose metabolism. This finding suggests that the abnormalities seen on MRI are not due to defective blood supply, localised oedema, or grey matter heterotopic foci as previously hypothesised. The presence of the hypometabolic areas seems to be inconsistently related to the occurrence of seizures and is not proportional to the degree of mental impairment. This study provides evidence of a widespread cerebral hypometabolism that is not related to the presence of MRI abnormalities; conversely normal metabolism was present in the areas with an abnormal MRI signal."}
{"id": "7744551", "title": "Visual evoked potentials in Alzheimer's disease: investigations in a PET-defined collective.", "content": "Visual evoked potentials in Alzheimer's disease: investigations in a PET-defined collective. Intravital diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) based clinical and neuropsychological findings alone does not allow sufficient differentiation from other disorders such as vascular dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) secures intravital diagnosis with high accuracy by determination of a typical metabolic pattern. Numerous publications have proposed visual evoked potentials (VEP) for the detection of AD. In a collective of 15 patients with probable AD according to NINCDS/ADRDA criteria and the typical metabolic pattern of AD, we examined pattern reversal and flash VEPs. The results were compared to those of an age-matched collective of patients without impairment of memory. Neither pattern reversal nor flash VEP were correlated to severity of dementia as determined by the mini-mental status examination (MMSE). The positive results of other investigators are probably due to different patient selection criteria which do not include findings of cerebral glucose metabolism in the definition of AD."}
{"id": "7694995", "title": "Positron emission tomography in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Jansky-Bielschowsky disease): a case report.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Jansky-Bielschowsky disease): a case report. We report on a 13-year-old girl with late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) in whom PET scanning with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ([18F]/FDG) was performed. Early psychomotor development was normal. At the age of 2 years, neurological signs such as hypotonia and incoordination appeared, followed by visual failure and ataxia. At the age of 4, funduscopic examination showed macular degeneration and papillary atrophy. At the age of 9, myoclonic jerks were observed; subsequently, generalized seizures together with failing vision, mental deterioration, and visual and auditory hallucinations appeared. Brain MRI showed severe cortical and subcortical atrophy. A skin biopsy detected the presence of 'finger-print' inclusions in the cytoplasm of smooth muscle fibers. Late infantile NCL (Jansky-Bielschowsky disease) was diagnosed. FDG/PET revealed a severe reduction of metabolism in all the cortical and subcortical structures. A regional analysis of the distribution of the tracer revealed marked bilateral hypometabolism, particularly in calcarine, lateral, occipital, and temporal cortices and in the thalamus."}
{"id": "7659917", "title": "[Prefrontal dementias: clinical features and SPECT in 6 cases].", "content": "[Prefrontal dementias: clinical features and SPECT in 6 cases]. Six patients with primary degenerative dementias and frontal or frontotemporal hypoperfusion are reported. Five were diagnosed as Frontal Progressive Dementia (FPD), characterized by striking changes in personality and social behavior. The last patient had a progressive aphasia and a moderate cognitive impairment. We discuss the heterogeneity of FPD that includes Pick's disease, frontal lobe type dementia (Neary) and progressive subcortical gliosis. The usefulness of SPECT and the need of a brain bank are remarked."}
{"id": "7519142", "title": "Quantitative topographical EEG compared to FDG PET for classification of vascular and degenerative dementia.", "content": "Quantitative topographical EEG compared to FDG PET for classification of vascular and degenerative dementia. Quantitative topographical EEG was compared with regional glucose metabolism measured by PET with respect to the sensitivity in the classification of mild to moderate dementia. In 24 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (DAT), 19 patients with vascular dementia (VD) and 15 age-matched healthy controls, global and regional EEG and PET data were analyzed. The metabolic ratio between typically affected and non-affected regions differentiated between DAT and VD (P < 0.001) as well as between DAT and normal controls (P < 0.001) even for the subgroup of mild dementia. In contrast to PET, global EEG changes were more sensitive than regional alterations for the classification into the respective groups. Relative theta power was most sensitive for the differentiation of demented patients irrespective of type of normal controls (P < 0.01), whereas OCC/FR alpha ratio (occipital divided by frontal power) separated between dementia types (P < 0.01) as well as between DAT and normals (P < 0.05). Additionally, EEG may help to grade severity especially in DAT. Combined use of EEG and PET was more discriminative and reached higher diagnostic specificity than each test individually. These results suggest that EEG and PET are complementary diagnostic procedures for the differentiation and classification of dementias."}
{"id": "8489323", "title": "An in vivo study of phosphorus and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease using magnetic resonance spectroscopy and PET.", "content": "An in vivo study of phosphorus and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease using magnetic resonance spectroscopy and PET. To study phosphorus and glucose metabolism in whole-brain slices of otherwise healthy patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and healthy controls. We used proton nuclear magnetic resonance imaging phosphorus spectroscopy and positron emission tomography to study in vivo brain phosphorus and glucose metabolism. Whole-brain slice phosphorus metabolism was studied in nine drug free patients with mild to moderately severe dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and in eight age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Mean ages (+/- SD) of the patients and controls were 60 +/- 10 years and 64 +/- 16 years, respectively. Positron emission tomography was used to study cerebral glucose metabolism in seven of the patients with DAT and seven of the healthy controls. Patients with DAT had significant brain glucose hypometabolism compared with controls, but there was no significant group difference in any phosphorus metabolite concentration or ratio in the same volume of brain tissue. Also, within patients with DAT there was no correlation between any phosphorus metabolite concentration or ratio and either severity of dementia or glucose metabolism. We suggest glucose metabolism is reduced early in DAT (reflecting decreased basal synaptic functioning) and is unrelated to a rate limitation in glucose delivery, abnormal glucose metabolism, or abnormal coupling between oxidation and phosphorylation. Normal or near-normal levels of phosphorus metabolites are maintained in mild, moderate, and severe DAT. Therefore, altered high-energy phosphate levels are not a consequence of reduced glucose metabolism in DAT, and do not play a major role in the pathophysiology of the disorder, at least in whole-brain sections."}
{"id": "8488956", "title": "Neuropsychological deficits are correlated with frontal hypometabolism in positron emission tomography studies of older alcoholic patients.", "content": "Neuropsychological deficits are correlated with frontal hypometabolism in positron emission tomography studies of older alcoholic patients. In an extension of previous work, we studied the behavioral correlates of medial frontal lobe glucose hypometabolism in chronically alcohol-dependent patients. Thirty-one male patients who were detoxified, medically stable, and free of other central nervous system risk factors for neuropsychological impairment were examined with (1) anatomic imaging (CT or MR), (2) functional imaging with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET), and (3) a battery of neuropsychological tests, including two measures of abstraction known to be generally sensitive to frontal lobe disease or dysfunction [the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and the Halstead Category Test (HCT)]. 18F-FDG PET data from 18 age- and sex-matched normal control subjects were used for comparison. All patients met criteria for severe alcohol dependence and for at least a mild degree of alcoholic-induced cognitive impairment. Although the mean IQ level of the alcoholic patients was in the average range, the concepts attained and the error scores on the WCST and HCT were significantly impaired in comparison with established norms. Local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRglc) was significantly decreased in a sagittal strip of the medial frontal cortex in the alcoholic patients as compared with the normal controls. Comparison of data from PET scans and anatomic images indicated that the reduced LCMRglc could not be attributed to reduced amounts of tissue alone. A statistically significant relationship was found between LCMRglc in the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex and performance on the WCST, but not the HCT. These findings suggest that chronic alcohol intake results in impaired function of cerebral tissue in the medial frontal region.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8482976", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism and striatal 18F-dopa uptake by PET in cases of chorea with or without dementia.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism and striatal 18F-dopa uptake by PET in cases of chorea with or without dementia. Cerebral glucose metabolism was studied by positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in 12 patients with chorea due to different underlying diseases. The striatal 18F-dopa uptake was also studied with 6-L-[18F]fluorodopa in 6 of them. Five of them were diagnosed as Huntington's disease two were as 'sporadic progressive chorea and dementia' with characteristic symptoms and signs of Huntington's disease but no family histories, two were as choreoacanthocytosis, and two had hemichorea caused by suspected vascular lesions in the contralateral striatum revealed by MRI. Caudate and putaminal glucose metabolism decreased in chorea compared to the controls. Hemichorea showed decreased glucose metabolism only in the contralateral striatum. Moreover the glucose metabolism decreased in demented each 7 patients in the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices as well as in the striatum. The caudate and putaminal 18F-dopa uptake in patients with chorea showed no difference with that in the controls. The pathogenetic mechanism of chorea may involve decreased glucose metabolism and normal presynaptic dopaminergic activity in the striatum, and that of the demented state in chorea may also involve an additional decrease of the glucose metabolism in the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices."}
{"id": "8478402", "title": "Early detection of Alzheimer's disease: a statistical approach using positron emission tomographic data.", "content": "Early detection of Alzheimer's disease: a statistical approach using positron emission tomographic data. Correlational analysis of regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) obtained by high-resolution positron emission tomography (PET) has demonstrated reduced neocortical rCMRglc interactions in mildly/moderately demented patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, identification of individual differences in patterns of rCMRglc interactions may be important for the early detection of AD, particularly among individuals at greater risk for developing AD (e.g., those with a family history of AD). Recently, a statistical procedure, using multiple regression and discriminant analysis, was developed to assess individual differences in patterns of rCMRglc interdependencies. We applied this new statistical procedure to resting rCMRglc PET data from mildly/moderately demented patients with probable AD and age/sex-matched controls. The aims of the study were to identify a discriminant function that would (a) distinguish patients from controls and (b) identify an AD pattern in an individual at risk for AD with isolated memory impairment whose initial PET scan showed minor abnormalities, but whose second scan showed parietal hypometabolism, coincident with further cognitive decline. Two discriminant functions, reflecting interactions involving regions most involved in reduced correlations in probable AD, correctly classified 87% of the patients and controls, and successfully identified the first scan of the at-risk individual as AD (probability > 0.70). The results suggest that this statistical approach may be useful for the early detection of AD."}
{"id": "8478400", "title": "PET study of changes in local brain hemodynamics and oxygen metabolism after unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion in baboons.", "content": "PET study of changes in local brain hemodynamics and oxygen metabolism after unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion in baboons. Local cerebral hemodynamics and oxygen metabolism were measured by positron emission tomography (PET) with the oxygen-15 (15O) steady-state method in baboons, immediately before (T0), 1 (T1), and 3-4 (T2) h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). At T1, there was a marked fall in both cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the CBF/cerebral blood volume (CBV) ratio in the occluded territory; these changes were sustained at T2, indicating stable reduction in cerebral perfusion pressure and lack of spontaneous reperfusion within this time range. Compared with preocclusion conditions, the oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) in the occluded territory was elevated at both T1 and T2, indicative of a persistent oligemia/ischemia for up to 3 h after MCAO. At T2, however, this OEF increase had lessened, concomitantly with a decline in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2). This impairment of oxidative metabolism occurred earlier in the deep, compared with the cortical, MCA territories; in the latter, the CMRO2 was essentially preserved at T1 and only moderately reduced at T2, possibly suggesting prolonged viability. Finally, no significant changes in CBF or CMRO2 were observed in the contralateral MCA territory in this time range after MCAO. Despite methodological limitations (mainly partial volume effects related to PET imaging, which may have resulted in an underestimation of true changes and an overlooking of heterogeneous changes) our study demonstrates the feasibility of the combined PET-MCAO paradigm in baboons; this experimental approach should be valuable in investigating the pathophysiology and therapy of acute stroke."}
{"id": "8461968", "title": "Familial Alzheimer's disease. A pedigree with a mis-sense mutation in the amyloid precursor protein gene (amyloid precursor protein 717 valine-->glycine).", "content": "Familial Alzheimer's disease. A pedigree with a mis-sense mutation in the amyloid precursor protein gene (amyloid precursor protein 717 valine-->glycine). Ten affected individuals are described from a kindred with autosomal dominant familial Alzheimer's disease in which a mutation in the amyloid precursor protein gene results in a valine to glycine substitution at amyloid precursor protein 717 which co-segregates with the disease. The mean age at onset of symptoms was 52 years with a range from 40 years to 67 years. The median duration of the disease was 11 years, with a range of 7-16 years. All individuals fulfilled the National Institute for Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease. A homogeneous clinical and neuropsychological pattern was evident within the family. Myoclonic jerks, seizures, depression and a lack of insight were common features. Positron emission tomography demonstrated biparietal bitemporal hypometabolism in the one affected individual who was studied. The diagnosis was confirmed histopathologically in one individual."}
{"id": "8455781", "title": "Left and right hemisphere contribution to recovery from neglect after right hemisphere damage--an [18F]FDG pet study of two cases.", "content": "Left and right hemisphere contribution to recovery from neglect after right hemisphere damage--an [18F]FDG pet study of two cases. A 2-[18F]-Fluoro-2-Deoxy-D-Glucose ([18F]FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) study was performed in the acute and chronic phase of stroke in one patient with unilateral neglect due to a right hemispheric lesion. In the acute phase, severe neglect, as well as hypometabolism in both the right and in the left unaffected cerebral hemisphere, was demonstrated. At follow-up evaluation the patient showed an almost complete recovery from unilateral neglect. This was associated with a return of left hemisphere metabolism to normal values and partial metabolic recovery in the right hemisphere, where frontal and parietal areas remained functionally impaired. Another patient with an extensive right cerebral ischaemic lesion on CT and severe unilateral neglect was studied by PET in chronic phase. A severe metabolic depression in the left unaffected hemisphere and in the right cerebral areas spared by the lesion, was found. These data suggest that the remission of unilateral neglect might be associated to a functional metabolic recovery in both the undamaged left hemisphere and the unaffected regions of the right hemisphere."}
{"id": "8440287", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula: a cause of hypoperfusion-induced intellectual impairment.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula: a cause of hypoperfusion-induced intellectual impairment. A 76-year-old, right-handed man developed posttraumatic dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) involving the superior sagittal sinus. He developed slow but progressive intellectual deterioration and gait disturbance after a minimal head trauma. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a DAVF of the superior sagittal sinus with sinus thrombosis supplied by branches of the bilateral external carotid arteries, and a DAVF of the right sigmoid sinus supplied by the right occipital artery. Selective embolization was carried out. He showed marked improvement on neuropsychological testing, especially on test items which are supposed to tap functions of the right cerebral hemisphere which showed an improved cerebral blood flow. We concluded that the intellectual impairment of our patient was caused by cerebral hypoperfusion, especially of the right cerebral hemisphere."}
{"id": "8439599", "title": "Spectral analysis of the EEG and 99m-Tc-HMPAO SPECT-scan in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Spectral analysis of the EEG and 99m-Tc-HMPAO SPECT-scan in Alzheimer's disease. 99m-technetium-hexamethylpropylene-amineoxine (99m-Tc-HMPAO) single-photon-emission-computer-tomography (SPECT)-scans and spectral analyzed electroencephalogram (EEGs) of 20 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) were studied. A significant correlation was found between the temporoparietal-cerebellar-ratio (TP/C-ratio) of the SPECT-scan and the peak frequencies of leads T3-T5, C3-P3, and C4-P4 of the EEG. In addition a significant negative correlation between the TP/C-ratio and the theta/alpha-ratio (t/a-ratio) of leads T3-T5, T4-T6, C3-P3, and C4-P4 was demonstrated. Our study demonstrates that slowing of the EEG parallels a decrease in blood flow in the temporoparietal regions in AD-patients. Both findings could be parallel phenomena of regional hypometabolism."}
{"id": "8433091", "title": "Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies in dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies in dementia. Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies of regional cerebral glucose metabolism were performed in patients with various types of dementia, patients with Parkinson's disease but without dementia, and healthy normal controls. Patients with Alzheimer-type dementia showed significant decreases in glucose metabolism in frontal, temporal, parietal, sensory-motor and striatal regions. Patients with Pick's disease revealed decreased glucose metabolism in frontal and temporal regions. Parkinsonian patients with dementia had significant reductions of glucose metabolism in frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, sensory-motor and striatal regions. Patients with Huntington's disease revealed decreased glucose metabolism in frontal, parietal and striatal regions. Patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease showed marked decreases in glucose metabolism throughout all brain regions. On the other hand, patients with Parkinson's disease but without dementia exhibited no reductions of cerebral glucose metabolism. Cerebral glucose hypometabolism in these various types of dementia might reflect neuronal dysfunction and cell death."}
{"id": "8428313", "title": "Progressive aphasia without dementia--a clinical and cognitive neuropsychological analysis.", "content": "Progressive aphasia without dementia--a clinical and cognitive neuropsychological analysis. This article provides a clinical and cognitive neuropsychological analysis of a patient who presented a marked and progressive linguistic disturbance in the absence of any other significant cognitive impairment. A PET scan indicated that this disorder was associated with focal left temporofrontal hypometabolism. The essential characteristics of this disorder were anomia, surface dyslexia, and surface dysgraphia, along with a mild grammatical disturbance and deficits in both visual and auditory word comprehension. The patient's disorder is considered in relation to other similar cases and to modular accounts of acquired linguistic disorders."}
{"id": "8417380", "title": "A population-based study of dementia in 85-year-olds.", "content": "A population-based study of dementia in 85-year-olds. The aim of this study was to investigate the causes, severity, and prevalence of dementia in a representative sample of 494 85-year-olds living in Gothenburg, Sweden. The study included a psychiatric interview, neuropsychological and physical examinations, comprehensive laboratory tests, electrocardiography, chest radiography, computed tomography (CT) of the head, and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. A person close to each subject was also interviewed. Dementia was defined according to the criteria proposed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (third edition, revised), Alzheimer's disease according to the criteria of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, and vascular dementia according to recently proposed criteria that incorporate information from CT scanning and the patient's neurologic history. The prevalence of dementia was 29.8 percent (147 subjects). The condition was mild in 8.3 percent, moderate in 10.3 percent, and severe in 11.1 percent. There were no significant sex-related differences in prevalence or severity. Of the subjects with dementia, 43.5 percent had Alzheimer's disease, 46.9 percent had vascular dementia (multi-infarct dementia in 34.6 percent, dementia related to cerebral hypoperfusion in 4.1 percent, and mixed dementia in 8.2 percent), and 9.5 percent had dementia due to other causes. The three-year mortality rate was 23.1 percent in the subjects without dementia, 42.2 percent in the patients with Alzheimer's disease, and 66.7 percent in the patients with vascular dementia. Infarcts detected by CT scanning were significantly more common in the subjects with dementia than in those without it (27.9 percent vs. 12.6 percent). Dementia was present in nearly a third of unselected 85-year-olds in Sweden. Almost half these subjects appeared to have vascular dementia, which may currently be more amenable to prevention or treatment than Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8414042", "title": "Positron emission tomography and histopathology in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography and histopathology in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We studied a 62-year-old man with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), using positron emission tomography (PET) and (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Glucose metabolism was heterogeneously decreased throughout the brain. At autopsy, regional distributions of spongiosis, astrogliosis, and neuronal loss correlated with premortem regional metabolic deficits. These results suggest that PET with FDG may provide metabolic regional markers for CJD neuropathology."}
{"id": "8390806", "title": "Positron emission tomography measures of benzodiazepine receptors in Huntington's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography measures of benzodiazepine receptors in Huntington's disease. We performed positron emission tomographic (PET) measurements of the regional distribution volume of benzodiazepine receptors and regional glucose metabolism in 6 drug-free patients with early Huntington's disease following injection of [11C]flumazenil, a nonsubtype selective central benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, respectively. Flumazenil data were analyzed with a recently developed two-compartment, two-parameter tracer kinetic model. Benzodiazepine receptor density is related to distribution volume for flumazenil. In comparison with a group of healthy volunteers, benzodiazepine receptor density was significantly decreased in the caudate nucleus. Glucose metabolism was significantly reduced not only in the caudate nucleus but also in the putamen and thalamus. The changes in benzodiazepine receptor density observed in the caudate nucleus are commensurate with data obtained in postmortem autoradiographic studies of receptor density. Based on such postmortem studies we also anticipated changes in putamen and thalamic benzodiazepine receptor density. However, relatively little is known on receptor changes in early Huntington's disease, because the autoradiographic data available were obtained mostly in patients with advanced disease. The decreased glucose metabolism in the caudate and putamen agrees well with previously published results of PET studies, whereas metabolic impairment of the thalamus has not yet been described in Huntington's disease. The present study suggests that regional metabolism and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-benzodiazepine receptor changes in subcortical structures of patients with early Huntington's disease do not occur with the same time course: Caudate benzodiazepine receptor density is already severely impaired when other subcortical structures reveal only minor abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8369642", "title": "EEG coherence in men with AIDS: association with subcortical metabolic activity.", "content": "EEG coherence in men with AIDS: association with subcortical metabolic activity. The authors studied the relationship between cerebral metabolism and brain electrical activity in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), using positron-emission tomography and quantitative electroencephalography. Electroencephalographic coherence in the 6-to 10-Hz band correlated positively with thalamic metabolic activity. Coherence adjusted for background activity correlated strongly and positively with basal ganglia metabolic activity. Posterior interhemispheric coherence showed the highest correlations with measures of metabolic activity. These results suggest that changes in coherence may reflect AIDS-related subcortical disease. The high correlations between the two different measures of cerebral activity support the validity of electroencephalographic coherence measures in studies of AIDS-related neuropsychiatric dysfunction."}
{"id": "8358518", "title": "Pattern of cerebral metabolic interactions in a subject with isolated amnesia at risk for Alzheimer's disease: a longitudinal evaluation.", "content": "Pattern of cerebral metabolic interactions in a subject with isolated amnesia at risk for Alzheimer's disease: a longitudinal evaluation. A pattern of reduced cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) has been shown by positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. To verify if a similar rCMRglc pattern is present in subjects 'at risk' for Alzheimer's disease (AD), we used high-resolution PET to longitudinally study a subject with isolated memory impairment and a family history for autosomal dominant AD. Initial rCMRglc data did not reveal any consistent abnormality as compared to a group of sex- and age-matched healthy controls. However, 1 year later, a follow-up evaluation did reveal reduced parietal rCMRglc values coinciding with a worsening of cognitive impairment, which suggested that standard analyses of resting rCMRglc data may not be useful in the early diagnosis of AD. In contrast, when a previously determined discriminant function for distinguishing controls from AD patients was applied, the subject was correctly identified as an AD patient on both PET scans."}
{"id": "8355064", "title": "Comparability of FDG PET studies in probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparability of FDG PET studies in probable Alzheimer's disease. Results of studies with positron emission tomography (PET) of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) were compared among three European centers with different PET scanners (in-plane resolution ranging between 6.75 mm and 9.2 mm). A ratio of glucose metabolism in the most typically affected regions over the least typically affected regions was calculated to quantitatively analyze the characteristic pattern of AD. Diagnostic accuracy of this composite ratio was high (95.8%) and was superior to that of most ratios derived from single regions. Correspondingly, there was a consistent, highly significant difference between patients (mean ratio 0.77 +/- 0.11) and normals (mean 0.99 +/- 0.04) without significant differences among laboratories. Possible small effects of rate constant variation and region size were analyzed by computer simulation. The results demonstrate that a common investigation protocol may yield FDG PET data in different laboratories that are closely comparable in spite of differences between scanners and imaging equipment."}
{"id": "8353715", "title": "Evidence of multiple memory systems in the human brain. A [18F]FDG PET metabolic study.", "content": "Evidence of multiple memory systems in the human brain. A [18F]FDG PET metabolic study. Patients with global amnesia of different aetiologies (n = 11), and patients with probable Alzheimer's disease of recent onset and mild to moderate severity (n = 18) underwent extensive neuropsychological examination, which included the evaluation of multiple components of memory, and a measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with [18F]fluoro-deoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) and PET. In the neuropsychological tests, both global amnesia and Alzheimer's disease patients had impaired episodic long-term memory, while deficits of short-term, semantic and implicit memory were present only in Alzheimer's disease. When local metabolic rates for glucose were compared with values from age- and education-matched normal controls, a common pattern of bilateral hypometabolism was present in the hippocampus, cingulate and frontal basal cortex of both global amnesia and Alzheimer's disease patients. On the other hand, significant hypometabolism was found in the thalamus in only global amnesia, and in the frontal, parietal and temporal associative cortex in only Alzheimer's disease. The results of a multivariate regression analysis of test scores with metabolic data indicated that different clusters of cerebral areas were associated with each of the main components of memory function. These data are in agreement with 'neural network' models of the neural basis of cognition, according to which complex functions are subserved by multiple interconnected cortical and subcortical structures."}
{"id": "8350100", "title": "Reductions in parietal and temporal cerebral metabolic rates for glucose are not specific for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Reductions in parietal and temporal cerebral metabolic rates for glucose are not specific for Alzheimer's disease. Reduction in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) in the parietal and temporal regions has been shown in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The specificity of these findings for this disease state is uncertain. We repeatedly measured rCMRglc with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in the resting state in a 68 year old man with slowly progressive dementia who, during life, was initially diagnosed as having dementia of the Alzheimer type, then Parkinson disease with dementia, but was found to have only Parkinson's disease at necropsy. Metabolic ratios (rCMRglc/mean grey CMRglc) were significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in parietal and temporal regions, as well as in the prefrontal and premotor areas. This pattern was similar in regional distribution and magnitude of the defect to that seen in patients with probable AD. These results suggest that reductions of glucose metabolism in association neocortex in AD are not specific to the disease process, but may be related to the dementia state."}
{"id": "8346211", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in late-life depression and Alzheimer disease: a preliminary positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in late-life depression and Alzheimer disease: a preliminary positron emission tomography study. Eight subjects with late-life depression, eight subjects with probable Alzheimer disease, and eight healthy age-matched controls were studied using 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography in the resting state with their eyes open and ears unoccluded. The depressed subjects showed widespread reductions in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose in most major neocortical, subcortical, and paralimbic regions that were significantly different from control values (P < 0.01). The metabolic decrements in the depressed group were comparable in magnitude to those seen in the Alzheimer disease group. These data demonstrate widespread nonfocal decline in glucose metabolism in late-life depression that is comparable to the hypometabolism seen in Alzheimer disease. These findings have pathophysiological implications in major depressive disorder in the elderly."}
{"id": "8337557", "title": "[Heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease]. Despite the original distinction between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and senile dementia, both are currently considered to be one single disease based on their common neuropathological findings. We have reviewed the literature to investigate whether there is proof to assume the existence of subgroups of AD. Historically, there is a division based on the age at onset. Although typical cortical symptoms may be more prominent in early onset cases they may be encountered in senile cases too. Cortical neuronal loss may be more severe in early onset patients, but hippocampal neuronal loss is equally severe in both groups. In older patients cerebral reserve is reduced by age-related neuronal loss and a small amount of AD-type lesions might be sufficient to cause dementia. Aphasia has been proposed as indicator of a subgroup. However, it probably occurs in all AD patients when the cortical degenerative process progresses. AD cases presenting with aphasia are rare and more often prove to be Pick's disease or primary progressive aphasia. Extrapyramidal signs are present in 25% of patients without neuroleptics and in 90% of all patients. They are usually of mild intensity, appear during the course of the disease and are found to be of extranigral origin. Myoclonus may also be encountered at any stage, although more frequent in early onset AD. Its presence is often associated with a more progressive course. Most AD cases are sporadic and some are familial, suggesting an autosomal dominant transmission. Molecular genetics reveals that some patients with familial early-onset AD have a mutation on chromosome 21. Other genes, probably on chromosome 19, may be associated with late onset familial cases, suggesting heterogeneity in familial AD. White matter involvement on computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging has been reported to be more prominent in a subgroup of AD patients, with later onset and confusional symptoms. The typical bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism on positron emission tomography and hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography, is not found in all AD cases but may be indicative of a subgroup. Based on this review of the literature one homogeneous subgroup emerges: \"probable\" AD patients displaying memory disturbances with predominant cortical signs (especially aphasia), with a low prevalence of confusion and white matter involvement, exhibiting symptoms at a relatively early age but not exclusively below 65 years, and with a higher prevalence of genetic predisposition and more widespread neuropathological lesions at postmortem examination."}
{"id": "8334774", "title": "[Clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (CBD)].", "content": "[Clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (CBD)]. We reported a 67-year-old male, who suffered from apraxia and amnesia for 2 years and for muscle rigidity of right extremities for a year. Neurological examination revealed dysarthria, dysphagia, marked dystonia of right arm, hyperreflexia of all limbs and ataxic gait. He also had dementia and many other higher cortical dysfunction mostly due to left hemisphere damage. No impairment of eye movement was disclosed. Brain MRI as well as CT showed the significant brain atrophy in the left parieto-occipital region. A degenerative atrophy was suspected by 123I-IMP-SPECT and 18F-FDG-PET. By FDG-PET, the decrease of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism was detected not only affected unilateral cerebral cortex including primary motor area but ipsilateral basal ganglia and thalamus. Although, it is difficult to distinguish clinically CBD from atypical case of Alzheimer's disease, we speculated that in early stage of dementia, significant unilateral hypoperfusion and hypometabolism of basal ganglia and thalamus is characteristic of CBD."}
{"id": "8319928", "title": "[Early diagnostic differentiation of primary dementia from primary depressive syndromes in the aged--a contribution to the discussion of pseudodementia].", "content": "[Early diagnostic differentiation of primary dementia from primary depressive syndromes in the aged--a contribution to the discussion of pseudodementia]. The syndromes associated with dementia and depression in old age show a considerable overlap and even coincidence, not only for statistical reasons. Starting with a critical evaluation of the term \"pseudodementia\", possibilities for a differentiation of both types of syndromes by characteristics of clinical features and history and by additional investigations are shown. A critical review of the literature with focus on the differentiating properties of the following methods is given: neuropsychology and rating scales (e.g., \"cortical\" mediated versus motivational changes), neurophysiology (electroencephalography, EEG; evoked potentials, EP; event-related potentials, ERP), sleep physiology (REM-sleep changes; sleep deprivation results), neuroendocrinology (dexamethasone suppression test), neuroradiology (cranial computed tomography, CCT; magnetic resonance imaging, MRI) and especially the dynamic imaging methods of nuclear medicine (cerebral glucose metabolism with fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography, FDG-PET; cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements with PET and single photon emission tomography, SPET). Developments during recent years concerning better imaging of early hippocampal lesions (MRI) or analysis of CBF--changes induced by activation methods may be very helpful. In conclusion, one can say that the diagnosis of dementia and depression remains primarily a clinical one that can be ascertained by means of valuable diagnostic tools."}
{"id": "8315893", "title": "[A case of binswanger-type dementia with bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT].", "content": "[A case of binswanger-type dementia with bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT]. We report a case of Binswanger-type dementia demonstrated bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT with 123I-IMP. The perfusion pattern in the present case was different from those previously obtained in SPECT or PET studies of patients with Binswanger-type dementia, and was similar to regional abnormalities in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. Temporoparietal hypoperfusion in this case is likely to be mediated by neuronal mechanisms via projection fibers as a result of the deep white matter lesions in the temporoparietal area. A decreased perfusion or metabolism in the temporoparietal area is considered to be a characteristic in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, however, we should keep in mind that other cerebral disorders may also show a similar perfusion pattern."}
{"id": "8289076", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in progressive dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in progressive dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We examined regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and oxygen metabolism (rCMRO2) in 4 patients with progressive dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), in 9 patients with classical ALS without dementia, and in 13 normal controls, using positron emission tomography with oxygen-15 gas and oxygen-15 labeled carbon dioxide. The mean rCBF and rCMRO2 in the anterior cerebral hemispheres decreased significantly in patients with progressive dementia with ALS, compared to those in controls. Patients with only ALS showed very mild reductions of rCBF and rCMRO2 which were not statistically significant. These data suggest that hypoperfusion and oxygen hypometabolism in the anterior cerebral hemispheres have an etiological relationship to deterioration of intellect in patients with progressive dementia with ALS. A significant reduction in the mean rCBF was also found in the cerebellar hemispheres in progressive dementia with ALS, while a reduction of mean rCMRO2 was not significant. Remote effects analogous to crossed cerebellar diaschisis occurring bilaterally were assumed to explain the cerebellar hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "8270594", "title": "Functional brain imaging in late-life depression and dementia.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in late-life depression and dementia. Studies utilizing advanced scanning technologies suggest that brain imaging may have a role in the differential diagnosis of some common neuropsychiatric disorders. In subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), widespread cortical reductions in glucose metabolism and blood flow have been described, with predominant involvement of the temporal and parietal lobes. The primary sensory areas and subcortical regions are relatively spared. When a \"patchy\" pattern of reductions in cerebral blood flow and metabolism is associated with clinical dementia, a vascular etiology should be suspected. Major depression in the elderly is associated with reductions in whole brain glucose metabolic rates comparable in magnitude with those described in DAT. Relatively distinctive patterns of flow and metabolism also are seen in frontal-temporal dementia and Parkinson's disease with dementia."}
{"id": "8239307", "title": "Activation PET as an instrument to determine therapeutic efficacy in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Activation PET as an instrument to determine therapeutic efficacy in Alzheimer's disease. Forty patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) were selected from a pool of 80 patients and assigned to 4 groups. Each received either social support, cognitive training only, or cognitive training in combination with pyritinol or phosphatidylserine. Treatment duration was 6 months. Before and after treatment the patients underwent neuropsychological testing as well as measurement of the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose using positron emission tomography (PET) and 2[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Before treatment, the groups were comparable in respect to resting and activated glucose pattern achieved by a visual recognition task. They did not differ in scores of a neuropsychological test battery. After the treatment period the group with cognitive training + phosphatidylserine showed a significant glucose enhancement during the stimulation tasks in various brain regions, and an improvement in cognitive functioning compared to the other groups. The group with cognitive training + pyritinol had better stimulation effect as that of the social support group indicating that a combination of cognitive training + pharmacological intervention was superior than that of cognitive training alone."}
{"id": "8239283", "title": "Alzheimer's disease families with amyloid precursor protein mutations.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease families with amyloid precursor protein mutations. Early onset Familial Alzheimer's Disease (FAD) is an autosomal dominant disease with apparent complete penetrance. It is genetically heterogeneous with some families carrying mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene which segregate with the disease. In addition, there is allelic heterogeneity with four mutations associated with FAD. Three mutations have been reported at APP 717, just distal to the C-terminus of the beta-amyloid domain, APP 717 val-ile, APP 717 val-phe, and APP 717 val-gly, which are associated with autopsy-proven Alzheimer's disease (AD). APP 670/671 lies at the N terminus of the beta-amyloid domain and is associated with clinically diagnosed FAD in two Swedish families. FAD tends to have prominent myoclonus and this is shared by the cases with APP mutations. In two unrelated UK families with APP 717 val-ile mutations there was early prominent memory impairment with dyscalculia proceeding to generalized cognitive impairment with a lack of insight. There was a late development of a gait disturbance with extrapyramidal features in some members. Positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose demonstrated posterior bitemporal biparietal hypometabolism in one case. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed generalized cerebral atrophy particularly affecting the temporal lobes and hippocampus. At autopsy, a single case showed extensive beta-amyloid deposition with congophilic angiopathy and widespread senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The cytoskeletal pathology associated with abnormally phosphorylated tau was similar to cases of sporadic AD. In addition, there were widespread cortical and subcortical Lewy bodies. A single family with the APP 717 val-gly mutation also showed prominent myoclonus, lack of insight, and seizures, PET, in a single case, showed classical biparietal bitemporal hypometabolism. Autopsy, in a single case, showed diffuse deposits of beta-amyloid throughout the cortex with frequent neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. No other inclusion bodies were seen. There was severe congophilic angiopathy. The age at onset of APP mutations is around 50 years of age by contrast to other early onset FAD pedigrees."}
{"id": "8232881", "title": "SPECT, CT and MRI in a Turkish family with Huntington's disease.", "content": "SPECT, CT and MRI in a Turkish family with Huntington's disease. A Turkish family with Huntington's disease documented on CT, MRI and SPECT is reported. Whereas in clinically definite cases CT and MRI are of limited value and SPECT does not add anything of value, in one asymptomatic subject SPECT showed moderate caudate nucleus hypoperfusion, underlining the hypothesis that SPECT may have a role in predicting Huntington's disease."}
{"id": "8215966", "title": "Callosal atrophy parallels decreased cortical oxygen metabolism and neuropsychological impairment in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Callosal atrophy parallels decreased cortical oxygen metabolism and neuropsychological impairment in Alzheimer's disease. To evaluate the relationship of corpus callosum atrophy to cerebral cortical oxygen metabolism and cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Prospective clinicoradiologic correlation with magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography. A university hospital. Ten right-handed male patients with Alzheimer's disease, aged 46 to 70 years (mean +/- SD 57 +/- 6 years), and 14 age- and sex-matched right-handed control subjects. The midsagittal corpus callosum areas (on T1-weighted magnetic resonance images), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (measured with positron emission tomography using the oxygen-15 steady-state technique), and the IQs of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Compared with control subjects, the patients had significantly decreased callosal areas with a posterior predominance of the degree of atrophy. The area of anterior and posterior halves of the corpus callosum had a significant correlation with the value of oxygen metabolism in the frontal and parietotemporo-occipital association cortices, respectively. The total area of the corpus callosum was significantly related to the total and verbal IQs of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Atrophy of corpus callosum reflects the severity and pattern of cortical damage associated with hypometabolism and cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8128843", "title": "Effect of long-term treatment with tacrine (THA) in Alzheimer's disease as visualized by PET.", "content": "Effect of long-term treatment with tacrine (THA) in Alzheimer's disease as visualized by PET. Among various attempts to enhance cholinergic neurotransmission in AD clinical trials with cholinesterase inhibitors have been most promising. In this study positron emission tomography (PET) was used to investigate how long-term treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors like tacrine could induce changes in the functional activity of Alzheimer brains. PET investigations measuring cerebral blood flow, glucose metabolism, nicotinic and muscarinic receptors have repeatedly been performed in patients treated with tacrine up to 2.5 years. Changes in nicotinic receptors and blood flow were observed after 3 weeks of treatment while changes in glucose metabolism were measured after 3 months of treatment. Following longer period of treatments and increase in dose of tacrine improvements were measured by PET. The most significant effects were found in patients with early forms of the dementia. The findings suggest that longer treatment may not only be symptomatic but might slow down the disease process."}
{"id": "8111623", "title": "The cortical topography of temporal lobe hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The cortical topography of temporal lobe hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a pathological process with specific predilection for association neocortex and the mesial temporal lobes. Recently developed high-resolution positron emission tomographs (PET) are able to quantitate regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in these brain regions and map the distribution of the metabolic consequences of Alzheimer pathology. In order to evaluate the relative involvement of mesial and neocortical temporal lobe brain regions in AD, we studied 22 AD patients, 11 of whom were mildly demented and 11 of whom were moderately demented in comparison to 8 age-matched control subjects. We used a PET instrument with 2.6 mm in-plane resolution and quantitated rCMRglc in anterior, middle, and posterior temporal neocortex, visual association cortex, primary visual cortex, and mesial temporal cortex. Although the moderately demented AD patients showed significantly lower metabolic rates than controls in visual association cortex and all temporal lobe regions except right anterior temporal neocortex, the mildly demented patients were different from the controls in only middle temporal neocortex. Considerable variability was found in the relative involvement of mesial temporal lobes and temporal neocortex in the AD patients, however, as shown by greater variance of a ratio of mesial temporal lobe rCMRglc to temporal neocortical rCMRglc (MES/NEO ratio) in the AD patients than the controls. A series of stepwise multiple regressions showed that this ratio was related to patient cognitive symptomatology, with more severely memory-impaired patients showing lower MES/NEO ratios, while patients with visuospatial disturbances showed higher MES/NEO ratios. In addition, the only biological variable that was related to this ratio was patient age, with older patients showing lower MES/NEO ratios. These results indicate that mesial temporal lobe structures are not invariably the earliest nor the most severely metabolically involved brain regions in AD and that the relative involvement of the mesial and neocortical temporal lobe is related to the patient's cognitive symptoms and age."}
{"id": "7906947", "title": "Clinical studies in Alzheimer patients with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Clinical studies in Alzheimer patients with positron emission tomography. Brain imaging techniques will in the future play an important role in the assessment of patients with neurogenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). An early diagnosis of AD is today hampered by lack of reliable diagnostic markers. Positron emission tomography (PET) permits the quantification and three-dimensional imaging of physiological variables. This provides the clinician with a non-invasive imaging technique which allows in vivo quantification of physiological processes in AD underlying dysfunction of cognition. PET studies regarding changes in cerebral blood flow and metabolism are rather consistent at least in moderate/advanced cases of AD. How early in the progress of the disease deficits in these parameters can be observed is still an open question. Longitudinal studies will here be important and especially in individuals with a family history of AD. Since deficits in cholinergic neurotransmission have been measured in autopsy AD brains attempts have also been made to visualized cholinergic activity in vivo. Nicotinic and muscarinic receptors have been visualized in normal and AD brains. A reduced uptake and binding of [11C]nicotine in the temporal and frontal cortices have been measured in AD patients by PET. Few treatment studies in AD have been evaluated by PET. Long-term treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine increase the uptake of [11C]nicotine. Significant reduction in uptake between the two enantiomers (S)(-) and (R)(+)-[11C]nicotine has been observed compatible with a restoration of nicotinic receptors. Tacrine also significantly increased the glucose metabolism. PET studies indicate that long-term tacrine treatment in AD patients with mild dementia improves functional activities in brain. When an AD patient with moderate dementia was treated with nerve growth factor (NGF) PET studies revealed increase in cortical blood flow and nicotinic receptors. PET studies will in the future play an important role in the evaluation of new therapeutic drug strategies in AD."}
{"id": "7685851", "title": "Hemodynamic disturbances in cerebral ischemia: correlation between positron emission tomographic and angiographic findings.", "content": "Hemodynamic disturbances in cerebral ischemia: correlation between positron emission tomographic and angiographic findings. Proper treatment of ischemic stroke requires better understanding of cerebral hemodynamic changes. The hemodynamic changes associated with ischemia were measured using positron emission tomography and related to angiographic findings in the subacute and chronic stages of 17 ischemia patients who showed symptoms of main trunk stenosis of the internal carotid artery system. The hemodynamic factors, cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen, oxygen extraction fraction, and flow/volume ratio, were measured in regions of interest determined from the angiographic stenosis (over 50%) and compared in each stage. The cerebral blood flow and flow/volume ratio in the territory downstream of the main trunk stenosis and cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen in the whole cortex were decreased in the subacute stage. In the chronic stage, cerebral blood flow and flow/volume ratio decreased mainly in borderzone areas."}
{"id": "1628576", "title": "Comparison of the intracarotid amobarbital procedure and interictal cerebral 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans in refractory temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Comparison of the intracarotid amobarbital procedure and interictal cerebral 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans in refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. The relationship between interictal focal hypometabolism determined by 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans and memory function with the intracarotid amobarbital procedure (IAP) was evaluated in 23 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. All patients underwent prolonged EEG/video monitoring. The epileptogenic focus was defined by interictal epileptiform discharges and ictal onsets. All 23 patients had recorded seizures arising exclusively from one temporal lobe. PET showed temporal lobe hypometabolism ipsilateral to the epileptogenic focus in 86% (20 of 23) of patients; IAP showed impaired memory of the hemisphere of seizure onset in 65% (15 of 23). Sixty-five percent (13 of 20) of patients with focal hypometabolism had ipsilateral memory impairment. Memory impairment contralateral to the hypometabolic zone was not observed. Ninety-five percent (22 of 23) of patients demonstrated functional impairment by either PET or IAP (or both) on the epileptogenic side."}
{"id": "1628437", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia--cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen metabolism].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia--cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen metabolism]. A 51-year-old man developed muscle weakness of the bilateral upper extremities, and mental changes beginning with personality change. There was no history of mental illness in his family. A neurological examination 1 year after the onset revealed muscle atrophy and fasciculation of his bilateral upper extremities Neuropsychological examination revealed concrete speech, paraphasia, and lack of judgment. Disorientation, amnesia, dyscalculia, and spatial agnosia, however, were not recognized. These neuropsychological findings were compatible with dementia of frontal lobe type. EMG and muscle biopsy revealed neurogenic muscular atrophy. There was no abnormal findings in the brain X-CT and the brain MRI. PET study using C15O2 and 15O2 revealed reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) in the bilateral medial frontal cortex, the left temporal cortex and the bilateral thalamus. From these these findings the patient was diagnosed as having motor neuron disease with dementia. Muscle atrophy and dementia worsened gradually. A second PET study 2 years and 6 months after the onset revealed severe reduction of CBF and CMRO2 in the bilateral temporal cortex and the thalamus. These PET findings suggested that dysfunction of the temporal cortex and the thalamus related to dementia in this case."}
{"id": "1628203", "title": "Brain energy metabolism in bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts. A positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Brain energy metabolism in bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts. A positron emission tomography study. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies of the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) were performed in seven consecutive patients with bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts (BPTI), selected on neuroradiological and clinical criteria. The latter consisted of sudden onset of coma or confusion followed by a persistent amnesia of varying severity, with or without language impairment and frontal lobe signs. There was a highly significant decrease of CMRO2 for the whole cortex as well as for all the regions analysed: medial-frontal, latero-frontal, temporal, sensorimotor and posterior associative cortex. The mean regional metabolic ratios (region/whole cortex CMRO2) were not significantly different from controls, indicating an essentially uniform effect in the cortex, except the sensorimotor ratio which was significantly increased. Diffuse cortical hypometabolism most likely reflects thalamo-cortical deafferentation secondary to damage to the 'non-specific' thalamic nuclei, while sparing of the latero-ventral thalamus presumably explains the relative preservation of the sensorimotor cortex metabolism. Although no clear-cut individual relationship was found between magnitude of cortical hypometabolism and the severity and pattern of neuropsychological impairment, the data suggest that the former underlies and/or reflects the latter. Further studies with higher resolution PET devices might shed more light on the relationships between distinct cognitive patterns and specific topography of cortical hypometabolism in BPTI patients."}
{"id": "1574993", "title": "Frontal lobe function in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a neuropsychologic and positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Frontal lobe function in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a neuropsychologic and positron emission tomography study. In this study the regional cerebral glucose utilization and the neuropsychological performance of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was investigated. Special attention was given to neuropsychological tests thought to mirror frontal lobe dysfunction. The regional cerebral glucose utilization was studied in 18 patients using high-resolution positron emission tomography. Clinically all patients displayed upper and lower motor neurone signs. In ALS patients glucose metabolism was significantly reduced in the frontal and in the entire cortex compared with controls; no changes were seen in the cerebellum. Comprehensive neuropsychological assessment of ALS patients compared to a pair matched control group revealed mild frontal dysfunction which in part significantly correlated with reduced glucose metabolism in the cortex and subcortical structures. We conclude that in patients with ALS, glucose consumption is decreased in parts of the brain other than the motor cortex accompanied by mild neuropsychological deficits based on the tests employed in this study."}
{"id": "1571076", "title": "Positron emission tomography in degenerative disorders of the dopaminergic system.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in degenerative disorders of the dopaminergic system. 21 patients who had Parkinson's disease (PD), PD plus dementia of Alzheimer type (PDAT) or progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), were studied with positron emission tomography (PET) using (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). In one patient with strictly unilateral PD side differences in striatal dopa uptake were studied with 6-(18F)fluoro-L-dopa (F-dopa). In patients with PD PET with FDG did not show any significant change in regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMR(Glu)). In PDAT glucose metabolism was generally reduced, the most severe decrease was found in parietal cortex. The metabolic pattern was similar to that typically found in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the patient with strictly unilateral PD rCMR(Glu) was normal, F-dopa PET, however, revealed a distinct reduction of dopa uptake in the contralateral putamen. In PSP glucose metabolism was significantly decreased in subcortical regions (caudatum, putamen and brainstem) and in frontal cortex. Thus PET demonstrated a clear difference of metabolic pattern between PDAT and PSP."}
{"id": "1562450", "title": "PET correlates of normal and impaired memory functions.", "content": "PET correlates of normal and impaired memory functions. To date, positron emission tomography (PET) has been the only technology for the quantitative imaging of the changes of regional cerebral glucose (rCMRGl) or oxygen metabolism and blood flow (rCBF) associated with psychophysical stimulation and with the performance of mental tasks. So far, the majority of studies performed in healthy subjects demonstrated activation patterns involving not only certain limbic structures, most of all hippocampus, amygdala, parahippocampus, and cingulate, but also temporal, parietal, and occipital association cortex, depending on the applied paradigm. Indeed, the closest correlation between regional metabolism and memory test scores was found in mesiotemporal structures during the performance of memory tasks. Metabolic or CBF studies also seem to indicate that memorizing strategies may differ among individuals. PET was repeatedly used to investigate metabolic and/or blood flow abnormalities in patients with various amnestic syndromes. In cases with uni- or bilateral lesions of mesiotemporal structures, caused by surgery, herpes simplex encephalitis, or permanent ischemic, anoxic, or toxic damage, disturbances of metabolism and blood flow typically extended far beyond the morphological defects detected by computed tomography or magnetic resonance. In acute transient global amnesia, CBF and metabolism were decreased bilaterally in the mesiotemporal lobes, where hypometabolism persisted for some time, while higher values were observed in thalamus and some cortical areas. Diencephalic lesions causing Korsakoff's syndrome were associated with decreased rCMRGl in the hippocampal formation, upper brainstem, cingulate, and thalamus. Discrete thalamic infarcts caused amnesia and metabolic depression in the morphologically intact ipsilateral thalamus and in various projection areas of the infarcted nuclei. In ischemic forebrain lesions, amnestic deficits could be related to involvement of the anterior cingulate and of basal cholinergic nuclei. A large number of pathologies are diffusely spread out in the brain and affect partially or predominantly structures in memory processing. This holds true especially in the various dementias where memory disturbances are a consistent and often leading feature. Notably, Alzheimer's disease can be distinguished from other dementias by its characteristic pattern of metabolic dysfunction, with the most prominent changes occurring in parietotemporal and frontal association cortex whose residual metabolism is related to the severity of the disease. Therefore, activation studies using paradigms involving memory functions enhance that typical pattern. Only in the activated state is metabolism of mesiotemporal structures significantly correlated with the performance in memory tests. Other dementias also affect some of the distributed memory networks, with Huntington's disease suggesting a role of the striatum in memory processing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1556365", "title": "Leuko-araiosis and cerebral hypoperfusion compared in elderly normals and Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Leuko-araiosis and cerebral hypoperfusion compared in elderly normals and Alzheimer's dementia. To elucidate the pathogenesis of leuko-araiosis in patients with Alzheimer's disease by utilizing CT densitometry of the brain and measurements of local perfusion in order to quantify the extent of leuko-araiosis and local hypoperfusion compared with similar measurements made among age-matched normal volunteers. Cross-sectional case-control study. Out-patient visits to a specialized laboratory located in a large hospital facility. Eighteen elderly patients with probable dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT, aged 71.8 +/- 5.1 years) and 17 neurologically and cognitively normal, age-matched volunteers (aged 68.2 +/- 9.6 years) were admitted to the study according to established criteria. None Cerebral blood flow (mL/100 g brain/min) estimated by the xenon inhalation CT-CBF method correlated with volume percentage ratio (%) measured by CT densitometry for leuko-araiosis, compared to normal white and gray matter. Perfusion values for frontal and occipital white matter as well as frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital cortex were all decreased in DAT patients. Ratios for leuko-araiosis to total brain tissue volumes were greater among patients with DAT compared with age-matched normal volunteers. White matter perfusion in zones of leuko-araiosis was decreased to a similar degree in both DAT and elderly normal volunteers. Perfusion is reduced to the same degree in regions of leuko-araiosis in elderly normals as in DAT patients, but the extent of leuko-araiosis is greater among DAT patients and presumably contributes to cognitive impairments."}
{"id": "1552311", "title": "Subcortical damage and cortical dysfunction in progressive supranuclear palsy demonstrated by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Subcortical damage and cortical dysfunction in progressive supranuclear palsy demonstrated by positron emission tomography. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was studied in nine patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) revealed general cerebral hypometabolism in all PSP patients in comparison with an age-matched reference group. When comparing the degree of regional metabolic deterioration, a consistent pattern of the most affected brain regions became obvious: the strongest significant alteration of cerebral glucose metabolism was observed in subcortical regions, e.g. in caudate nucleus, lentiform nucleus and upper mid-brain, which showed nerve cell loss in previous pathological studies. Less severe, but still significant hypometabolism was observed in frontal cortex. This pattern of hypometabolism was distinctly different from that typically seen in dementias of Alzheimer's type. The present data show that PET findings agree with histopathological studies: PSP is a primarily subcortical disease with secondary inactivation of cortical, especially of frontal brain regions."}
{"id": "1542386", "title": "Differences of regional cerebral glucose metabolism between presenile and senile dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Differences of regional cerebral glucose metabolism between presenile and senile dementia of Alzheimer type. The effect of age on regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGl) was studied in 14 patients with presenile dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) and 24 patients suffering from senile DAT in comparison to 20 age-matched normal subjects by positron emission tomography (PET) of 2-(18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). The metabolic pattern was condensed to a single metabolic ratio. It was calculated as the quotient of rCMRGl in regions typically affected by AD (frontal and temporoparietal cortex) divided by that in regions typically not affected. In normals this ratio was 1.05 +/- 0.04 and did not depend on age. In patients, the metabolic ratio was generally smaller and there was a significant difference between presenile (0.82 +/- 0.1) and senile DAT (0.90 +/- 0.1). This was due to a different metabolic pattern in the two age groups: metabolic impairment was focused on frontal and temporo-parietal cortex in presenile DAT, whereas more global rCMRGl reductions were present in senile DAT. The results suggest a more generalized disorder in senile dementia impairing metabolism globally in addition to the more localized changes that are typical for DAT."}
{"id": "1531155", "title": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Huntington's disease.", "content": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Huntington's disease. We measured cortical glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography in 39 patients with Huntington's disease (HD) and in 34 controls. In the 23 patients with symptoms for less than 5 years, there was a 15% decrease in metabolism in frontal and inferior parietal cortex. In 16 patients with symptoms for more than 5 years, all cortical areas (except temporal) were significantly involved, with metabolic rates 25 to 30% below those of controls. These data indicate the presence of a diffuse abnormality of cortical function with early involvement of frontal lobes in HD, suggesting that the clinical manifestations may not be related solely to basal ganglia pathology, even in early disease."}
{"id": "1530965", "title": "A method for comparing different procedures of estimating regional glucose metabolism using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose.", "content": "A method for comparing different procedures of estimating regional glucose metabolism using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose. The purpose of this paper is to describe a method for determining whether a particular procedure for estimating regional metabolism using the deoxyglucose tracer analogue yields better data than another in terms of subsequent statistical analysis. The method is based on a simple model of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with three potential sources of metabolic variability, namely individual differences in cerebral metabolic rate, consistent regional differences and error. When the literature rate constants were compared to a dynamic procedure for estimating regional rate constants in patients with Huntington's Disease, the literature values were clearly superior in that the error component was approximately half (18.5 versus 39.3%). Although these results cannot be generalized to all procedures for estimating regional glucose metabolism, the method can be applied to determine if a particular procedure will be more sensitive than another to differences between groups."}
{"id": "1520079", "title": "Severity of vascular dementia is related to volume of metabolically impaired tissue.", "content": "Severity of vascular dementia is related to volume of metabolically impaired tissue. The relation between dementia severity and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose was studied in 28 patients with vascular dementia (VD) in comparison with 20 age-matched patients who were suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 24 normal subjects by using positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18. Similar metabolic impairment was found in the temporoparietal and frontal association cortex in patients with VD and in those with AD. Metabolism of the basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum was reduced significantly in patients with VD only. The total volume of regions with metabolism below the 95% confidence interval of control values was significantly related to the severity of dementia but did not differ between patients with VD and those with AD. A metabolic ratio of regional cerebral glucose metabolism of association areas divided by regional cerebral glucose metabolism of structures that were typically not affected by AD was significantly lower in patients with AD than in those with VD. This ratio was also related to dementia severity in both types of dementia."}
{"id": "1517837", "title": "Crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion in unilateral major cerebral artery occlusive disorders.", "content": "Crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion in unilateral major cerebral artery occlusive disorders. We evaluated regional blood flow and oxygen metabolism in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices of 15 patients with unilateral major cerebral artery occlusive disorders with PET. These patients showed a cortical blood flow asymmetry in middle cerebral artery distribution. Only subcortical abnormalities were detected on computed tomography. Nine patients showed crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion, a reduction in contralateral cerebellar blood flow, while six did not. No difference in the degree of cerebral blood flow asymmetry existed between the two patient groups. However, oxygen metabolism asymmetry was more pronounced and was more closely matched to blood flow asymmetry in patients with crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion. These findings suggest that a major cause of cerebral cortical blood flow reduction is reduced metabolic demand in patients with crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion. Crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion may have clinical significance as a reflection of the cerebral metabolic state on blood flow images."}
{"id": "1514777", "title": "Functional neuroimaging strategy in temporal lobe epilepsy: a comparative study of 18FDG-PET and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT.", "content": "Functional neuroimaging strategy in temporal lobe epilepsy: a comparative study of 18FDG-PET and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT. We performed 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime-single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (PET) in 20 epileptic patients with well-lateralized temporal electroencephalographic focus, normal computed tomographic scan, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) either normal (n = 10) or showing nonspecific changes in the epileptogenic temporal lobe (n = 10). In patients with a normal MRI, PET exhibited focal hypometabolism in 80%, whereas SPECT showed corresponding hypoperfusion in only 20%. In patients with an abnormal MRI, PET and SPECT yielded 100% and 90% sensitivity, respectively. The metabolic and regional cerebral blood flow disturbances were topographically concordant with electroencephalographic and MRI findings in all these patients. Only patients with a large and pronounced hypometabolism on PET images exhibited hypoperfusion on SPECT. Spatial resolution appeared to be the critical factor responsible for the higher sensitivity of PET. However, this superiority of PET did not prove clinically useful in patients whose SPECT was abnormal, particularly when brain MRI showed nonspecific changes in the epileptogenic temporal lobe."}
{"id": "1506868", "title": "Quantitative EEG mapping and PET in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantitative EEG mapping and PET in Alzheimer's disease. Quantitative analysis of topographical EEG was studied in comparison with measurement of regional glucose metabolism by PET in 42 patients with clinical diagnosis of probable dementia of Alzheimer type (AD) and in 15 age-matched normal controls. Measures analyzed included global and regional data from areas typically affected and not affected by AD pathology. While disturbance of metabolism followed a typical regional pattern, relative alpha, theta and delta power were more globally altered without selectivity for specific regions. Separation between AD and age matched controls by relative theta power was correct in 86% and was close to that by temporo-parietal glucose metabolism (correct classification 87%). Relative theta power as well as temporo-parietal glucose metabolism were significantly correlated (tau B = 0.54 and -0.53, respectively) to severity of AD assessed by the global deterioration scale. These results indicate that EEG measures may be used with an accuracy close to metabolic values from PET for the assessment of severity of AD."}
{"id": "1491741", "title": "Tacrine restores cholinergic nicotinic receptors and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer patients as visualized by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Tacrine restores cholinergic nicotinic receptors and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer patients as visualized by positron emission tomography. Three patients with Alzheimer's disease, a 68-year-old woman with mild dementia and 2 men (aged 64 and 72 years) with moderate dementia were treated orally with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine), 80 mg daily, for several months. The patients were investigated using positron emission tomography (PET) prior to, and after 3 weeks and 3 months of treatment. The PET studies involved a multi-tracer system consisting of [18F]-fluoro-deoxy-glucose (18F-FDG) (tracer for glucose metabolism); 11C-butanol (cerebral blood flow) and (S)(-)- and (R)(+)-[N-11C-methyl]-nicotine (nicotinic receptors; cholinergic neural activity). Tacrine treatment increased the uptake of 11C-nicotine to the brain. Significant reduced difference in uptake between the two enantiomers (S)(-)- and (R)(+)11C-nicotine was observed in the frontal and temporal cortices after tacrine treatment in all three patients. The kinetic analysis indicated increased binding of (S)(-)11C-nicotine in brain compatible with a restoration of nicotinic cholinergic receptors. The most pronounced effect was observed after 3 weeks and 3 months treatment in the patient with mild dementia. An increase in cerebral glucose utilization was found in the 68-year-old patient with mild dementia but also slightly in the 64-year-old man with moderate dementia when treated with tacrine for 3 months. Tacrine administration did not affect cerebral blood flow. The PET data obtained after 3 weeks of tacrine treatment was paralleled by improvement in neuropsychological performance. This study shows in vivo by PET neurochemical effects induced in brain by treatment with tacrine to Alzheimer patients. Intervention with tacrine in the early course of the disease might be necessary for clinical improvement."}
{"id": "1491738", "title": "Nature of mental retardation and dementia in Down syndrome: study with PET, CT, and neuropsychology.", "content": "Nature of mental retardation and dementia in Down syndrome: study with PET, CT, and neuropsychology. Recent evidence suggests that Alzheimer's disease is an etiologically heterogeneous disorder. A human model of Alzheimer's disease exists that avoids such problems of etiologic heterogeneity. Down syndrome (DS), trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder in which an extra portion of chromosome 21 leads to mental retardation, short stature, and phenotypic abnormalities. Prior investigations by others have shown that DS subjects over 40 years of age demonstrate neuropathologic and neurochemical defects postmortem that are virtually indistinguishable from those found in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients and a universal cognitive deterioration more severe in demented than nondemented older DS subjects. In our study, these nondemented older DS subjects show a distinctive pattern of age-related deficits, while a more global pattern is seen in demented older DS subjects. Dementia occurs in 40% of older DS subjects. We find that in older demented DS subjects positron emission tomography (PET) shows identical patterns of abnormal glucose metabolism as those described previously in Alzheimer's disease patients, selectively involving the phylogenetically newer association areas of parietal and temporal neocortices but sparing primary sensory and motor regions. Further, we find in older demented DS patients quantitative computer-assisted tomography (CT) indicates accelerated neuronal loss and brain atrophy, similar to that previously shown in Alzheimer's disease patients. As a potential use of the DS model, we observed a case of DS with dementia but without mental retardation. This case suggests that expression of dementia in DS may involve genes on chromosome 21 other than in the \"obligatory\" distal segment of the q arm. Alternatively, differential expression of genes on the q arm of chromosome 21 might cause dementia without phenotypic features and mental retardation."}
{"id": "1489634", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Parkinson's disease with or without dementia.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with Parkinson's disease with or without dementia. By means of positron emission tomography, the cerebral glucose metabolism in 5 patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia was compared with that in 9 patients without dementia, and that in 5 normal volunteers. The metabolic rates for glucose were measured by placing one hundred regions of interest. In the demented patients, cerebral glucose metabolism was diffusely decreased compared with that of the non-demented patients and the normal controls. The most significant decrease in glucose metabolism was observed in the angular gyrus (49.7% of the normal controls). The glucose metabolism in the cingulate, pre- and postcentral, occipital and subcortical regions was relatively spared (62.1 to 85.5% of the normal controls). In the patients without dementia, the glucose metabolism in each region was not significantly different from that in the normal controls. These results suggest that diffuse glucose hypometabolism in the cerebral cortex may correlate with that of patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia."}
{"id": "1477527", "title": "Attention and sentence processing deficits in Parkinson's disease: the role of anterior cingulate cortex.", "content": "Attention and sentence processing deficits in Parkinson's disease: the role of anterior cingulate cortex. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative condition involving a motor disorder that is related to reduced dopaminergic input to the striatum. Intellectual deficits are also seen in PD, but the pathophysiology of these difficulties is poorly understood. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was studied in neurologically intact subjects during the performance of attention-demanding, sentence processing tasks using positron emission tomography (PET). The results demonstrated significantly increased rCBF in a distributed set of cerebral regions during the detection of an adjective or a particular agent in a sentence, including anterior cingulate cortex, left inferior and middle frontal cortex, left inferior temporo-occipital cortex, posterolateral temporal cortex, left caudate, and left thalamus. We identified defects in this cerebral network by studying PD patients with two PET techniques. Resting PET studies revealed a significant correlation between regional cerebral glucose metabolism in anterior cingulate cortex and deficits in attending to subtle grammatical aspects of sentences. Studies of PD patients with the PET activation technique revealed little change in anterior cingulate and left frontal CBF during performance of the adjective detection or agent detection tasks. These data suggest that a defect in anterior cingulate cortex contributes to the cognitive impairments observed in PD."}
{"id": "1469402", "title": "Fluctuating cognitive abnormalities and cerebral glucose metabolism in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus.", "content": "Fluctuating cognitive abnormalities and cerebral glucose metabolism in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus. Brain imaging techniques such as MRI and PET have the potential for identifying central nervous system involvement in SLE. They may also help elucidate the mechanisms giving rise to the widely diverging manifestations of CNS involvement in SLE. This report documents an intensive longitudinal study of three women with neuropsychiatric SLE. PET and neuropsychological evaluation were both used to examine the co-occurrence of behavioural/cognitive deficits with alterations in regional brain glucose metabolism. In all three patients, FDG uptake indicated abnormalities which were not identified on CT scan, but corresponded well with localisable cognitive deficits. Changes in each patient's cognitive profile on reassessment paralleled changes on PET. These findings support the suggestion that cognitive deficits in SLE patients reflect primary CNS involvement."}
{"id": "1449406", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. Although cognitive impairment is commonly associated with Parkinson's disease, the relative importance of cortical and subcortical pathologic changes to the development of dementia is controversial. Characteristic abnormalities in cortical glucose metabolism have been reported previously in Alzheimer's disease, a disease in which cortical changes predominate. We measured cerebral glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography in 20 control subjects and in 14 patients with PD with mental status ranging from normal to severely demented to determine whether changes in cortical glucose metabolism occur in early PD and whether the degree and pattern of metabolic change relate to the severity of dementia. The patients were divided into demented and nondemented groups according to the results of neuropsychological assessment. Age-adjusted covariance analyses were performed, since the age distribution varied between groups. The nondemented patients with PD showed widespread cortical glucose hypometabolism without any selective temporoparietal defects. The pattern of glucose hypometabolism seen in the demented patients with PD resembled that described in patients with Alzheimer's disease; ie, there was a global decrease in glucose metabolism, with more severe abnormalities observed in the temporoparietal regions."}
{"id": "1439868", "title": "Positron emission tomography in cerebrovascular disorders.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in cerebrovascular disorders. The introduction of positron emission tomography (PET) as a powerful imaging modality has played a major role in the understanding of the pathophysiological bases for cerebrovascular disorders. PET is the only technique that allows measurement of regional cerebral blood flow, blood volume, oxygen extraction fraction, and oxygen and glucose metabolism with detail and accuracy. Using PET, these physiological parameters can be measured to determine the extent of the disease from the early stages of cerebrovascular disorders to acute cerebral infarction. Significant hemodynamic and metabolic abnormalities are noted in chronic ischemia, but no structural changes are noted on anatomic images. PET studies have shown that in many patients in the early phases (10 to 12 hours) of clinically diagnosed acute stroke, a substantial area of ischemia exists, which, if untreated, will become irreversibly damaged. Similar to the results achieved in patients with acute myocardial infarction, appropriate intervention in patients with cerebrovascular disorders may significantly reduce the extent of injury to the brain. PET also has been useful in predicting functional recovery and monitoring the effects of various therapeutic approaches. Although functional imaging of the brain with single photon emission computed tomography can successfully be used in the investigation of several disorders of the brain, its role in cerebrovascular disorders is quite limited. PET is a unique modality that studies ischemic diseases of the brain, and it potentially could play a significant role in the management of patients with cerebrovascular disease. This will be further realized when aggressive approaches are used routinely in the future."}
{"id": "1431960", "title": "Heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease: progression rate segregated by distinct neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic profiles.", "content": "Heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease: progression rate segregated by distinct neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic profiles. In an attempt to define possible subgroups of Alzheimer's disease, 21 patients satisfying current clinical diagnostic criteria for this disorder were divided on the basis of progression rates of symptoms. Thirteen patients with relatively rapid intellectual deterioration did not differ from eight patients showing slow progression with respect to global intellectual performance, sex, or age at onset of symptoms. Neuropsychological testing revealed that although the two groups were indistinguishable in verbal or visuospatial functions associated with the parietotemporal cortex, the more rapidly deteriorating group had significantly greater impairment in executive functions attributed to the frontal lobe. PET scans showed equivalent reductions in glucose metabolism in the parietotemporal cortex, but patients with relatively fast progression had significantly greater hypometabolism frontally. These results suggest an association between relatively severe frontal lobe involvement and a rapid clinical course that might have important implications for the development of treatment strategies for patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1431957", "title": "Thalamocortical diaschisis: positron emission tomography in humans.", "content": "Thalamocortical diaschisis: positron emission tomography in humans. To investigate further the relations between cortical energy metabolism and neuropsychological impairment after unilateral thalamic lesion, 55 patients underwent positron emission tomography studies of either cortical oxygen consumption or glucose utilisation, including eight repeat studies, at times ranging from 4 days to 98 months after the onset of the lesion [stroke (n = 44) or stereotaxic VL-Vim thalamotomy performed for movement disorders (n = 11)]. Patients with thalamotomy were also studied preoperatively and the surgery induced a significant fall in cortical metabolism on both sides (more so ipsilaterally); post-operatively the magnitude of the ipsilateral cortex hypometabolism was positively correlated to the severity of global neuropsychological impairment; similar but less significant findings were obtained for the ipsilateral/contralateral cortical metabolic asymmetry. With respect to the whole patient sample, the cortical metabolic asymmetry was initially pronounced, with subsequent monoexponential recovery, in the cognitively impaired study group, but it was only mild and showed no meaningful trend for recovery in the cognitively unaffected study group; yet even soon (< 3 months) after thalamic lesion there was a noticeable overlap of individual asymmetry values among the two study groups. These results lend further support to the view that the neuropsychological impairment that frequently follows unilateral thalamic lesions is reflected in a depression of synaptic activity in both the overlying and the contralateral cerebral cortices. For individual patients, this study also illustrates the potentially misleading nature of the measured cortical metabolic asymmetry with respect to neuropsychological status, especially at late times after lesion, in part because side to side metabolic ratios do not reflect bilateral changes."}
{"id": "1417508", "title": "Regional cerebral oxygen consumption, blood flow, and blood volume in healthy human aging.", "content": "Regional cerebral oxygen consumption, blood flow, and blood volume in healthy human aging. Using high-resolution positron emission tomography and the oxygen 15 continuous inhalation method, we examined the changes in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen, blood flow, blood volume, and oxygen extraction fraction as a function of age in 25 optimally healthy, unmedicated volunteers who ranged in age from 20 to 68 years. Subjects were strictly selected for absence of cerebrovascular risk factors, dementia, or mental disorders; they had neither biological nor clinical abnormalities, and no focal anomaly on computed tomographic scan. Regions of interest were determined according to the anatomical structures defined on corresponding computed tomographic scan cuts obtained using a stereotaxic head-positioning method. This same method was also used for positron emission tomographic imaging. There was no significant effect of aging on PaCO2 values, hematocrit, arterial blood pressure, cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and blood glucose levels. In most cerebral cortex gyri, the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen significantly decreased with age according to a linear pattern, with the same magnitude (about -6% per decade) in all four lobes and on both sides. This effect of age on cortical cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen persisted when the possible influence of cortical atrophy, gender, and head size were partialled out. In contrast, the white matter, deep gray nuclei, thalamus, and cerebellum were not significantly affected. The cerebral blood volume declined with a similar pattern to cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen, while changes in cerebral blood flow were less significant, presumably because of larger variance of data across subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1414249", "title": "Cortical metabolism in posterolateral thalamic stroke: PET study.", "content": "Cortical metabolism in posterolateral thalamic stroke: PET study. In 8 patients with small unilateral posterolateral thalamic (or, in one case, thalamocapsular) stroke (infarction or hemorrhage) selected on strict clinical (pure hemisomatosensory deficit without hemiparesis, visual field defect or neuropsychological impairment) and MRI criteria, we studied cortical energy metabolism using positron emission tomography with the 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose or the 15O-oxygen method. We found no significant ipsi- or contra-lateral metabolic depression either in the whole cortical mantle or in the sensorimotor cortex. These results support the hypothesis that location of thalamic stroke is a major determinant of the ipsilateral cortical hypometabolism characteristic of cognitively impaired patients with thalamic lesions and further emphasize the influence of the \"non-specific\" thalamocortical system on resting cortical metabolism. The lack of sensorimotor cortex hypometabolism in our patients suffering from hemidysesthesia and/or -hyperpathia also suggests that cortical metabolism is unaltered in thalamic pain."}
{"id": "1400646", "title": "Viability of neocortical function shown in behavioral activation state PET studies in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Viability of neocortical function shown in behavioral activation state PET studies in Alzheimer disease. Twenty subjects with mildly to moderately severe Alzheimer disease (AD) and 14 normal elderly control subjects were studied using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate regional cerebral glucose metabolism during both a resting state and a behavioral activation state, utilizing a reading memory task (RMT). The RMT produced significant global metabolic activation of 15 +/- 15% in normal subjects and 11 +/- 13% in AD subjects. The occipital regions were preferentially activated, but all regions in both groups were also significantly activated. The RMT did not allow a better discrimination of AD patients from normal controls on the basis of regional metabolic deficits. Regions in the AD group that were individually classified as hypometabolic during rest also exhibited metabolic activation. The apparent viability of hypometabolic regions in AD patients challenges current hypotheses regarding the cause of abnormal metabolism in AD."}
{"id": "1387888", "title": "Influence of size of regions of interest on PET evaluation of caudate glucose consumption.", "content": "Influence of size of regions of interest on PET evaluation of caudate glucose consumption. The aim of this study was to analyze the influence of variations in the size of regions of interest (ROIs) on values of caudate glucose consumption [regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc)] assessed by PET. In addition, we tried to establish the influence of ROI size on levels of significance assessing differences in mean caudate glucose consumption between two groups of subjects. For this purpose, rCMRglc was measured using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and the PC-4096 PET camera with an in-plane resolution of 7.1 mm in 12 normal subjects and 12 subjects with early Huntington disease. Caudate rCMRglc was histographically determined using 10 different ROI widths ranging from 2 mm, corresponding to the peak value of caudate rCM-Rglc, to 20 mm. The increase in ROI width from 2 to 20 mm led to a significant decrease of caudate rCMRglc by approximately 66% in the normal subjects and in the patients. The Student t value assessing the differences in mean caudate rCMRglc between the two groups decreased gradually from 5.61 for an ROI width of 2 mm to 3.78 for an ROI width of 20 mm. This corresponds to a worsening of the level of significance from 10(-5) to 10(-3), i.e., by a factor of 100. These data show that (given the resolution of presently used PET cameras) the selection of peak values of caudate rCMRglc is the best way to discriminate between groups of subjects supposed to differ with respect to caudate rCMRglc."}
{"id": "1387463", "title": "Paralimbic frontal lobe hypometabolism in depression associated with Huntington's disease.", "content": "Paralimbic frontal lobe hypometabolism in depression associated with Huntington's disease. We measured regional cerebral glucose metabolism using 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography in depressed and nondepressed patients with early Huntington's disease (HD), compared with appropriately matched controls. Caudate, putamen, and cingulate metabolism was significantly lower in patients with HD than in control subjects, independent of mood state. Orbital frontal-inferior prefrontal cortex hypometabolism, however, differentiated depressed patients from both nondepressed patients and normal controls. These findings implicate selective dysfunction of the paralimbic regions of the frontal lobes in the mood disorder of HD. The metabolic pattern is similar to that in depression associated with Parkinson's disease, suggesting that the integrity of pathways linking paralimbic frontal cortex and the basal ganglia may be integral to the normal regulation of mood."}
{"id": "1360198", "title": "Frontostriatal disorder of cerebral metabolism in never-medicated schizophrenics.", "content": "Frontostriatal disorder of cerebral metabolism in never-medicated schizophrenics. We scanned 18 patients with schizophrenia who had never received neuroleptic medication and 20 age- and sex-matched controls by positron emission tomography with 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose (fludeoxyglucose F 18) as a tracer of glucose metabolism. Subjects performed the Continuous Performance Test during 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake. Scan results were converted to metabolic rates, and computer algorithms were used to identify cortical regions. Previous reports of relative hypofrontality in schizophrenia were confirmed, indicating that this finding is not an artifact of previous treatment. Significantly reduced ratios of inferior and medial frontal regions to occipital cortex were found, together with diminished metabolism in the basal ganglia. This suggests the presence of a combined frontostriatal dysfunction in schizophrenia."}
{"id": "1355868", "title": "Age-related decline of cerebral oxygen metabolism in normal population detected with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Age-related decline of cerebral oxygen metabolism in normal population detected with positron emission tomography. Using positron emission tomography (PET), cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) were measured in 32 healthy volunteers aged from 27 to 67 years. In bilateral putamen, left supratemporal, left infrafrontal and left parietal cortices, CMRO2 showed a significant decline during aging. The age-related decline of CBF was seen only at the left superior temporal cortex. The mean CMRO2 was significantly lower in the elder group (over 51 years old) than in the younger group (under 50 years old), whereas no significant difference in mean CBF between the two groups. The poor correlation of CBF to the age could be explained partly by the fact that CBF is easily influenced by the physiological, psychological and/or environmental factors. The age-related changes of CMRO2 were more marked in the association cortices of the left hemisphere than in that of the right hemisphere."}
{"id": "1339787", "title": "Viable myocardium identified by reinjection thallium-201 imaging: comparison with regional wall motion and metabolic activity on FDG-PET.", "content": "Viable myocardium identified by reinjection thallium-201 imaging: comparison with regional wall motion and metabolic activity on FDG-PET. Reinjection thallium-201 scans were performed in 68 patients with coronary artery disease after the routine stress-delayed scans for more accurate identification of new fill-in. Following the stress and 3 hour delayed thallium-201 SPECT scans, 40 MBq (1.1 mCi) was injected at rest, and 10 min later, the reinjection SPECT scan was obtained. To determine whether the reinjection method can aid in identifying ischemic but viable myocardium, the thallium-201 findings were compared with regional wall motion on radionuclide ventriculography in 61 patients and with metabolic activity on positron emission tomography (PET) using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in 18 patients. The reinjection scan identified new fill-in which had not been shown on the stress-delayed scans in 6 of the 22 patients (27%) or in 29 of the 105 segments (28%). Regional wall motion was preserved more in the segments that exhibited new fill-in after reinjection (wall motion score = 1.64 +/- 1.29) than in those without new fill-in (score = 2.72 +/- 1.04) (p < 0.01). In the comparative study with FDG-PET, persistent FDG uptake was observed in all segments with new fill-in (20/20 segments: 100%); whereas, it was seen in only 7 of the 28 segments (25%) without new fill-in after reinjection (p < 0.05). We concluded that the segments having new fill-in after reinjection may represent ischemic but viable myocardium. Thus, the reinjection thallium-201 scan should be performed to identify ischemic myocardium which occasionally cannot be detected by the routine stress-delayed thallium-201 scans."}
{"id": "1284297", "title": "[Slowly progressive dysarthria and impaired language function--a case report].", "content": "[Slowly progressive dysarthria and impaired language function--a case report]. A 68-year-old right-handed woman was admitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital because of slowly progressive dysarthria and writing disability over 2-year period. On admission, severe dysarthria was observed, but no dysphagia. The dysarthria mostly resembled a type of pseudobulbar palsy, although it was associated with effortful speech production. An oro-facial apraxia was also found. She could name objects, and could understand spoken words correctly. Examination using the Western Aphasia Battery showed diminution of word fluency, impaired repetition and perseveration and writing errors. On the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-R verbal IQ was 100 and performance IQ was 87. These scores did not suggest any significant degree of general intellectual deterioration. Wisconsin card sorting test disclosed mild frontal dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging showed cortical atrophy in the bilateral frontal and temporal lobes. Measurements of regional cerebral metabolic rate by 18F-FDG-PET demonstrated decreased uptake in the latero-dorso-inferior area of the bilateral frontal lobes, especially on the left side. The present case showed slowly progressive dysarthria and progressive aphasia without generalized dementia, and without typical aphasia. These symptoms are speculated to be related to the atrophy in the bilateral frontal and temporal lobes shown by MRI and the decreased metabolic rate in the left dominant bilateral frontal lobes on PET study. The pathologic process responsible for these lesions remains obscure."}
{"id": "7502957", "title": "Radiation injury of the brain.", "content": "Radiation injury of the brain. The clinical, radiologic, and pathologic findings in radiation injury of the brain are reviewed. Late radiation injury is the major, dose-limiting complication of brain irradiation and occurs in two forms, focal and diffuse, which differ significantly in clinical and radiologic features. Focal and diffuse injuries both include a wide spectrum of abnormalities, from subclinical changes detectable only by MR imaging to overt brain necrosis. Asymptomatic focal edema is commonly seen on CT and MR following focal or large-volume irradiation. Focal necrosis has the CT and MR characteristics of a mass lesion, with clinical evidence of focal neurologic abnormality and raised intracranial pressure. Microscopically, the lesion shows characteristic vascular changes and white matter pathology ranging from demyelination to coagulative necrosis. Diffuse radiation injury is characterized by periventricular decrease in attenuation of CT and increased signal on proton-density and T2-weighted MR images. Most patients are asymptomatic. When clinical manifestations occur, impairment of mental function is the most prominent feature. Pathologic findings in focal and diffuse radiation necrosis are similar. Necrotizing leukoencephalopathy is the form of diffuse white matter injury that follows chemotherapy, with or without irradiation. Vascular disease is less prominent and the latent period is shorter than in diffuse radiation injury; radiologic findings and clinical manifestations are similar. Late radiation injury of large arteries is an occasional cause of postradiation cerebral injury, and cerebral atrophy and mineralizing microangiopathy are common radiologic findings of uncertain clinical significance. Functional imaging by positron emission tomography can differentiate recurrent tumor from focal radiation necrosis with positive and negative predictive values for tumor of 80-90%. Positron emission tomography of the blood-brain barrier, glucose metabolism, and blood flow, together with MR imaging, have demonstrated some of the pathophsiology of late radiation necrosis. Focal glucose hypometabolism on positron emissin tomography in irradiated patients may have prognostic significance for subsequent development of clinically evident radiation necrosis."}
{"id": "2063064", "title": "[Slowly progressive apraxia: a MRI and positron tomography in 4 cases].", "content": "[Slowly progressive apraxia: a MRI and positron tomography in 4 cases]. Four right-handed patients (69, 58 and 68 year-old men; 85 year-old woman) complained of motor difficulties with their left hand (3 cases), or both hands predominant on the left side (1 case). Continuous (1 case) or intermittent (2 cases) myoclonus was noted in the left arm. These disorders gradually progressed for 3 to 10 years. Clinical examination disclosed absence of motor, sensory (except in 1 case), or visual deficit. There were no cerebellar signs, no parkinsonian features (except for mild rigidity in 1 case), and no oculomotor abnormality. On the other hand, neuropsychological examination showed evidence of visuo-constructive apraxia in all cases, dressing apraxia in 3/4 cases and writing impairment in 3/4 cases. There was no amnesia, no aphasia and no intellectual impairment. MRI showed atrophy of the parietal areas, predominant on the right side. A positron emission tomography study was performed in all cases, and twice in 1 case. Cortical energy metabolism was measured using either 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose or 15 O-Oxygen, to calculate the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglu) or oxygen (CMRO2) respectively. Cortical metabolism was significantly decreased in the whole cortex of the right hemisphere in 3 cases, and was also reduced in the cortex of the left hemisphere, significantly in 1/3 studied planes. Moreover, regional metabolic indices (CMRO2 or CMRglu/cortex) showed a significant decrease in both the right and left posterior associative areas (temporo-parieto-occipital cortex), predominantly marked on the right side in 3 cases, indicating bilateral cortical dysfunction. At follow-up, one patient became progressively demented, another had visuo-spatial disorders indicating a lesion of both parietal areas. The relationships of our cases with the slowly progressive apraxia syndrome and with corticobasal degeneration are discussed."}
{"id": "2057055", "title": "Impaired metabolic activation in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study during continuous visual recognition.", "content": "Impaired metabolic activation in Alzheimer's disease: a PET study during continuous visual recognition. Regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGl) was studied in 21 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and nine age-matched normal controls by positron emission tomography (PET) of 2(18F)-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) at rest and during stimulation with a continuous visual recognition task. While global metabolism at rest was comparable in both groups, rCMRGl in the temporo-parietal junction area, the mid-temporal and the frontal cortex was typically decreased in the AD patients. The continuous visual recognition task adapted to the individual performance capacity increased the global metabolic rate in the controls by 21 +/- 18%, while in the AD patients the metabolic change (5.7 +/- 11.1%) during activation was significantly weaker (P = 0.023). Due to the tasks chosen the activation of rCMRGl in both groups was most prominent in the visual cortex and the temporo-parietal association areas, although the recognition task additionally involved widespread brain structures with varying rCMRGl. A significant correlation was found between rCMRGl in areas usually severely affected by AD pathology, e.g. the temporo-parietal cortex, and GDS scores, and became stronger during metabolic activation. Neither at rest nor during stimulation was there a relationship between the rCMRGl of structures usually less involved in AD, e.g. the sensorimotor cortex, and the severity of dementia as assessed by the global deterioration scale (GDS). From these results it can be concluded that metabolic rate at rest reflects the extent of morphologic damage, while PET studies during activation indicate the brain's reserve capacity to respond to functional tasks. Since metabolism in AD patients during activation is more severely impaired than at rest, PET studies during functional tests could help in the selection of patients with a potential to benefit from therapeutic intervention."}
{"id": "2055721", "title": "Positron emission tomography in neuropsychiatry.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in neuropsychiatry. Positron emission tomography (PET) allows high-resolution, three-dimensional evaluation of regional brain metabolic activity and neurotransmitter function. This imaging technique has been applied increasingly in psychiatric research and may yield new information regarding the neural mechanisms of several mental disorders. This article is an overview of PET studies conducted on schizophrenia, affective disorders, and anxiety disorders. Although this research is in the preliminary stage with some inconsistent findings, general trends have emerged that clearly warrant further investigation. These trends are discussed in light of relevant methodological and theoretical issues. Potential directions for future PET research are reviewed."}
{"id": "2036616", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the routine evaluation of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the routine evaluation of Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral blood flow was studied in 7 patients with clinically suspected Alzheimer's disease and 10 normal controls by single photon computed emission tomography (SPECT) using HM-PAO. All patients with Alzheimer's disease and no controls had parietal lobe hypoperfusion which was usually bilateral. In patients with more severe dementia hypoperfusion extended into the frontal lobes. Parietal lobe hypoperfusion corresponds to parietal lobe degeneration which is the one of the first neocortical regions to show the typical degenerative changes of Alzheimer's disease. SPECT with HM-PAO is a non-invasive investigation available in most nuclear medicine departments and complements existing tests in the routine evaluation of patients presenting with dementia."}
{"id": "1997493", "title": "Effects of percent thresholding on the extraction of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic region-of-interest data.", "content": "Effects of percent thresholding on the extraction of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic region-of-interest data. Although we and others have employed a thresholding strategy to extract \"peak\" values from positron emission tomographic (PET) regions of interest (ROIs), the effects of peak picking on fitted fluorodeoxyglucose rate constants, regional metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) profiles, patterns of regional metabolic covariation, and PET-neurobehavioral correlations have not been systematically investigated. Our results suggest that under some commonly encountered imaging conditions percent thresholding may increase sensitivity to regional activation; however, the effect of thresholding is determined by a number of factors, including the relative magnitude of regional activation, ROI size, and the specific threshold selected. The difference-annulus concept is proposed as a means to study the effects of different region drawing and thresholding strategies, and to determine if a given ROI contains one and only one source of covarying metabolic activity."}
{"id": "1996428", "title": "Studies of central nervous system disorders with single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography: evolution over the past 2 decades.", "content": "Studies of central nervous system disorders with single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography: evolution over the past 2 decades. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was introduced in the 1960s to detect breakdowns in the blood-brain barrier and was replaced by x-ray computed tomography in the mid-1970s. The development of the deoxyglucose (DG) technique to measure regional cerebral glucose metabolism by employing either autoradiography, using 14CDG, or positron emission tomography (PET), using 18FDG, added a major dimension to the investigation of brain function. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the FDG-PET technique was widely used to examine a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. It soon became apparent that functional imaging was more sensitive than anatomic imaging in detecting abnormalities of the brain related to aging, dementia, tumors, seizures, cerebral vascular accidents, and psychiatric problems. Because of its complexity and the cost involved, PET was used in a limited number of centers in the United States. However, the success of PET resulted in the resurgence of interest in SPECT as an alternative technology after almost a decade. This became possible because of the synthesis of iodine 123- and technetium 99m-labeled radiopharmaceuticals to determine regional cerebral blood flow. Since blood flow and metabolism are coupled in most pathological states, patterns of abnormality noted on SPECT were similar to those seen on PET in many disorders. Since the introduction of high resolution SPECT imaging instruments, the role of SPECT has been further enhanced. The successful synthesis of both positron and single emitting radioligands to image dopamine and other receptors has started a new era in neurosciences and will have a far-reaching impact on the day-to-day practice of neuropsychiatry."}
{"id": "1991619", "title": "MRI, CT, SPECT, PET: their use in diagnosing dementia.", "content": "MRI, CT, SPECT, PET: their use in diagnosing dementia. The differential diagnosis of the dementia syndrome may pose a difficult clinical problem, since the most common dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), is marked by normal laboratory tests. Neuroimaging has played an important role in evaluating the demented patient, and its uses are growing. Computed tomography (CT) is useful for excluding reversible and treatable causes of dementia, such as subdural hematoma and tumor. More recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved our ability to diagnose vascular disease and may show the presence of cerebral infarcts and white matter disease not visible on CT. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET), techniques that visualize such cerebral functions as glucose metabolism and blood flow, may provide positive evidence supportive of the diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "1955897", "title": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a comparison with dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a comparison with dementia of the Alzheimer type. Regional cerebral perfusion was evaluated by single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using (99mTc)-HM-PAO as a tracer, in thirty Parkinsonian patients with (n = 15) or without (n = 15) dementia, nineteen patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and thirteen control subjects. HM-PAO uptake was measured in the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortex and tracer perfusion was expressed as cortical/cerebellar activity ratios. Regional HM-PAO ratios in nondemented Parkinsonian patients did not differ from controls, whereas in demented patients with Parkinson's disease (DPD) a significant reduction was found in the parietal, temporal and occipital cortex. Tracer uptake ratios were significantly reduced in all regions in the DAT group. Thus DPD and DAT shared a common pattern of marked posterior hypoperfusion, although the perfusion defect was greater and more extensive in the DAT patients."}
{"id": "1955530", "title": "Visuoconstructive performance and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Visuoconstructive performance and regional cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. The drawings of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and elderly control subjects were rated on a number of specific performance scales, such as attention to configuration, attention to detail, and stimulus boundedness. AD patients showed significantly poorer performance than controls on most drawing scales, and the drawing measures were differentially affected by disease severity. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) was assessed via positron emission tomography (PET, with 18FDG) in a subgroup of the AD patients. Partial correlations of rCMRglc with drawing measures (age, sex, and education served as control variables) were conducted. Five out of eight of the drawing measures were significantly correlated (p less than .005) with rCMRglc in occipital and/or temporal-parietal regions, for both left and right hemispheres. Only one of the eight drawing measures, attention to detail, was significantly correlated with rCMRglc in both frontal and posterior regions of interest, again for both hemispheres. Overall dementia severity showed no significant correlations with rCMRglc in any of the regions. These findings are suggestive of a posterior-anterior differentiation, but no left-right hemisphere differentiation, in the relationship between drawing performance and cerebral metabolism in AD, which cannot be accounted for by overall dementia severity. Differences between the drawing performance of AD and unilateral brain damaged patients are discussed, and further applications of the rating scales (provided in the Appendix) are suggested."}
{"id": "1938155", "title": "Brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer type. Neuroimaging modalities have increased understanding of brain abnormalities in dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and is important in assessment of dementia syndromes by revealing focal disorders, demonstrating potentially treatable conditions, and by documenting progression of disease severity. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have delineated structural changes in DAT, including cerebral atrophy associated with cortical sulci widening and ventricular enlargement, and deep white-matter lesions with periventricular distributions. Positron emission tomography (PET) has demonstrated diminished regional glucose metabolism at parietal and temporal lobes in DAT, while frontal hypometabolism tends to occur in more severe cases. Metabolic dysfunction assessed by PET appears to be the first indication of a degenerative cortical process in DAT, while anatomic changes on CT or MRI may become evident later in the disease process. This selective overview provides an analysis of the current status and future prospects of brain imaging in DAT."}
{"id": "1934773", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow pattern in progressive supranuclear palsy].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow pattern in progressive supranuclear palsy]. It is known that progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) shows subcortical dementia. The diagnosis of PSP is sometimes difficult because this disorder mimics the clinical features of parkinsonian syndrome. Several PET studies demonstrated frontal hypo-metabolism in PSP patients. We studied the cerebral blood flow (CBF) pattern by single-photon-emission-computed tomography (SPECT) using 123I-isopropyl-iodoamphetamine (IMP) in 5 patients of PSP including one autopsy case. Five PSP patients were 3 men and 2 women, mean age of 67.6 years old. Control groups were 3 normal controls (Normal), 7 patients of Parkinson's disease (PD), 5 patients of olive-pontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA), and 4 patients of dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT). CBF was measured by 123I-IMP SPECT using 400 AC/T Starcam (GE). CBF was measured by semi-quantitative methods. Regions of Interest (ROI's) were located at cerebellar, basal ganglion, and lateral ventricle levels. Each count of ROI was divided by the count of occipital ROI. In all PSP patients, the ratio of relative blood flow to occipital lobe in the frontal and fronto-temporal regions were most markedly affected, showing average reduction rates of 66.6% and 65.5%. These rates showed statistically significant differences to other control degenerative neurological diseases. Our these results correspond to the former PET studies. Moreover, frontal hypoperfusion progressed with advancing clinical stage. The results indicate that CBF study with SPECT is useful to confirm the diagnosis of PSP. It is necessary to clarify the role of the damage in basal ganglia for frontal hypometabolic pattern."}
{"id": "1934763", "title": "[Slowly progressive fluent aphasia--clinical features and an imaging study including MRI, SPECT and PET].", "content": "[Slowly progressive fluent aphasia--clinical features and an imaging study including MRI, SPECT and PET]. Three cases of slowly progressive fluent aphasia were presented. In all it began with word amnesia or stuttering, and in one to five years impairment of auditory comprehension, and reading and writing difficulties with kanji (Japanese morphograms) appeared. The neuropsychological and radiological findings were as follows: Case 1: a right-handed 65-year-old man showed severe fluent aphasia (the Western Aphasia Battery profile was rated as corresponding to Wernicke's aphasia but his score on the Token test was too high for Wernicke's aphasia) and memory disturbance. Cortical atrophy was prominent in the left temporal and parietal lobes. Hypoperfusion was evident in the bilateral anterior temporal region, suggesting the diagnosis of Pick's disease. Case 2: a right-handed 42-year-old man presented amnesic aphasia with buccofacial and ideomotor apraxia. The left frontal, temporal and parietal lobes were all atrophic. Hypoperfusion was marked in the left perisylvian and temporo-parietal regions, being similar to the pattern of Mesulam's slowly progressive aphasia. Case 3: a right-handed 55-year-old man with amnesic aphasia. Left-side dominant cortical atrophy involved the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes. The metabolic rate was lower in the left anterior temporal lobe, compatible with the finding in Pick's disease. The common clinical features of these patients were selective deficits in vocabulary, resulting in impairment of confrontation naming, and auditory comprehension. They sometimes could not recognize things even when they were told their names; case 1 could not even point to objects on command, while their syntactic comprehension was well preserved.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1930679", "title": "Overview of radiopharmaceuticals for diagnosis of central nervous disorders.", "content": "Overview of radiopharmaceuticals for diagnosis of central nervous disorders. There are two types of imaging instruments, single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) that use radiopharmaceuticals for the diagnosis of brain disorders. Brain perfusion imaging agents, labeled either with 123I or 99mTc, are useful in detecting various cerebral vascular abnormalities, such as stroke and transient ischemia with SPECT. The management of other neurological disorders (i.e., in Alzheimer's, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and head trauma patients) may also be benefitted by these agents. The exact trapping mechanisms and their relationships with potential clinical applications still remain to be elucidated. Imaging studies using 18F fluorodeoxyglucose with PET is currently the most promising diagnostic tool for the evaluation of local glucose metabolism related to various disease states, such as Alzheimer's disease, brain tumor, and epilepsy. In the past few years significant progress has been made in the design and characterization of new CNS neuronal and postsynaptic receptor imaging agents for PET and SPECT. The new diagnostic agents are aimed at measurements of localization and changes of neuronal function. It is likely that these types of agents have potential for clinical application, especially in the diagnosis of psychiatric disorders that do not involve morphological changes."}
{"id": "1929775", "title": "Temporal and hippocampal metabolic rate during an olfactory memory task assessed by positron emission tomography in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type and controls. Preliminary studies.", "content": "Temporal and hippocampal metabolic rate during an olfactory memory task assessed by positron emission tomography in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type and controls. Preliminary studies. Positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 was used to assess cortical metabolic rate during an olfactory memory task in six patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. Metabolic activity was compared with that of both age-matched controls performing the olfactory task and controls resting with their eyes closed. Patients had lower metabolic rates in the anterior portion of the medial-temporal cortex than did controls, and the difference was greatest between patients and the controls performing the memory task. This region is known to receive a large olfactory input and has been implicated in the encoding of human memory. Normal controls resting with their eyes closed had significantly lower metabolic rates in this area when compared with normal controls performing the task. Our results are consistent with those of earlier reports of temporal lobe decreases in metabolic rate and extend them through the examination of areas salient to the behavioral loss."}
{"id": "1927687", "title": "A correlation between gene transcriptional activity and cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease-affected neocortex: cause or effect?", "content": "A correlation between gene transcriptional activity and cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease-affected neocortex: cause or effect? Our laboratory has measured mRNA pool sizes in neocortex afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have observed a repression of gene expression in the temporal and parietal regions compared to age-matched control neocortex. These changes in messenger RNA pool size closely parallel the observed alterations in local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (LCMR-g), as detected by positron emission tomography (PET). For example, deficits in both gene transcription and glucose metabolism appear to be the greatest in AD-affected superior temporal neocortex (Brodmann area 22) but are less apparent in the primary visual cortex (Brodmann area 17) or in the cerebellum. The unresolved question is whether changes in gene expression are the cause or effect of altered glucose metabolism. However, the non-random reductions in the pool size for certain neocortical mRNAs argue in favour of altered gene expression as the primary event."}
{"id": "1927686", "title": "Abnormal brain glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease, as measured by position emission tomography.", "content": "Abnormal brain glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease, as measured by position emission tomography. Resting glucose metabolism in the association neocortices, measured with positron emission tomography (PET), is disturbed early and throughout the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereas resting metabolism in the primary sensory and motor neocortices is relatively spared. Neocortical metabolic asymmetries precede and predict appropriate deficits in neocortically-mediated cognitive functions in the initial course of disease, indicating that PET can be used for the early diagnosis and characterization of AD. Metabolic abnormalities of the neocortices in late-stage AD correlate with regional densities of neurofibrillary tangles but not of senile plaques post mortem, suggesting that tangle formation is important in disease pathogenesis. Despite demonstrating reduced resting glucose metabolism, visual association areas demonstrate equivalent (as percent baseline) blood flow responses in mildly-moderately demented AD patients and controls who are performing a face matching task. Thus, viability and integrity of this cortical circuitry is retained into the intermediate stages of the disease, and glucose delivery to the AD brain can be increased."}
{"id": "1922743", "title": "Decreased cerebral glucose metabolism associated with mental deterioration in multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "Decreased cerebral glucose metabolism associated with mental deterioration in multi-infarct dementia. Cerebral glucose metabolism of 18 patients with multi-infarct dementia (MID) and 10 age-matched normal subjects were examined with positron emission tomography and the 18-F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose technique. MID patients had significantly lower glucose metabolism in all the grey matter regions measured and were also characterized by more individuality in metabolic pattern. MID patients were also evaluated as to intelligence quotient (IQ). A positive correlation between IQ as shown by the Tanaka-Binet test and glucose metabolism for the entire grey matter was found. The clinical applicability of this test for predicting cerebral metabolism is discussed."}
{"id": "1914338", "title": "[A case progressive dementia developed after repeated head trauma].", "content": "[A case progressive dementia developed after repeated head trauma]. A 46-year-old man who developed progressive dementia after repeated head trauma was reported. At the age of 30 and 36, he encountered traffic accidents and suffered from blows to his head. At 37 years old, he noticed impairment of memory and comprehension. At 41 years old, he was observed to become easily angered. These symptoms were slowly progressive, and at age 46 he was examined by us. He had no particular family history of dementia. Neurological examination revealed a disturbance of cognitive ability. The brain CT and MRI showed marked atrophy of the cerebral cortex, especially in the frontal and temporal lobes without any demonstrable lesions in the white matter. A single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using inhalation of 133Xenon disclosed hypoperfusion of the cerebral blood flow localized in the bilateral frontal and parietal lobes. He was supposed to suffer from juvenile Alzheimer's disease which might have developed after repeated head trauma. One similar case had been reported as a posttraumatic premature Alzheimer's disease. Finally, we discussed other causes of dementia including metabolic, infectious and vascular diseases. The present case also suggests that head trauma might be one of the provoking or promoting factors of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1900728", "title": "Corticobasal degeneration. A unique pattern of regional cortical oxygen hypometabolism and striatal fluorodopa uptake demonstrated by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Corticobasal degeneration. A unique pattern of regional cortical oxygen hypometabolism and striatal fluorodopa uptake demonstrated by positron emission tomography. Corticobasal degeneration presents with an asymmetric akinetic-rigid syndrome, apraxia and combinations of supranuclear gaze palsy, myoclonus, and an alien limb. Six patients aged 59-77 yrs, diagnosed on clinical criteria as having corticobasal degeneration, have been studied with positron emission tomography using tracers of dopamine storage capacity and oxygen metabolism. Striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake was reduced in an asymmetric pattern, caudate and putamen being involved in all cases. Uptake into medial frontal cortex was also impaired. Regional cortical oxygen metabolism was most significantly depressed in the superior and posterior temporal, inferior parietal, and occipital associated cortices. Within the frontal lobe, the hypometabolism was chiefly posterior. This unique combination of regional hypometabolism and disruption of the nigrostriatal system is discussed in relation to the clinical features of the disease and is compared with reported findings in other disorders of cognition and movement."}
{"id": "1897377", "title": "Physostigmine in Alzheimer's disease: effects on cognitive functioning, cerebral glucose metabolism analyzed by positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow analyzed by single photon emission tomography.", "content": "Physostigmine in Alzheimer's disease: effects on cognitive functioning, cerebral glucose metabolism analyzed by positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow analyzed by single photon emission tomography. The effect of acute, intravenous administration of physostigmine on measures of brain activity and cognitive functioning were investigated in 14 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was assessed using (18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography, and cerebral blood flow was assessed using 123I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission tomography. Although physostigmine enhanced cerebral blood flow in most patients, only one patient showed significant clinical improvement. This patient, however, also showed a very pronounced improvement in cerebral glucose metabolism. It is concluded that these preliminary findings hold considerable promise for our appreciation of the pathophysiology of dementing illness as well as our understanding of centrally acting compounds of interest in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1891084", "title": "Frontal lobe degeneration: clinical, neuropsychological, and SPECT characteristics.", "content": "Frontal lobe degeneration: clinical, neuropsychological, and SPECT characteristics. The clinical, neuropsychological, and cerebral blood flow characteristics of eight patients with frontal lobe degeneration (FLD) were studied. Social withdrawal and behavioral disinhibition were the earliest and most common clinical presentations, and psychiatric symptoms typically preceded the onset of dementia by several years. Neuropsychological testing showed selective impairment of frontal and memory tasks with relative sparing of attention, language, and visuospatial skills. Single-photon emission computerized tomography demonstrated frontal and temporal hypoperfusion with relative sparing of parietal and occipital blood flow. Previous studies suggest that the neuropathologic findings in patients with FLD are varied; some demonstrate frontal gliosis, neuronal loss, and Pick bodies while others show only gliosis and neuronal loss."}
{"id": "1865209", "title": "Posterior cortical dementia with alexia: neurobehavioural, MRI, and PET findings.", "content": "Posterior cortical dementia with alexia: neurobehavioural, MRI, and PET findings. A progressive disorder of relatively focal but asymmetric biposterior dysfunction is described in a 54 year old right handed male. Initial clinical features included letter-by-letter alexia, visual anomia, acalculia, mild agraphia, constructional apraxia, and visuospatial compromise. Serial testing demonstrated relentless deterioration with additional development of transcortical sensory aphasia, Gerstmann's tetrad, and severe visuoperceptual impairment. Amnesia was not an early clinical feature. Judgment, personality, insight, and awareness remained preserved throughout most of the clinical course. Extinction in the right visual field to bilateral stimulation was the sole neurological abnormality. Early CT was normal and late MRI showed asymmetrical bioccipitoparietal atrophy with greater involvement of the left hemisphere. Results from positron emission tomography (PET) showed bilaterally asymmetric (left greater than right) occipitotemporoparietal hypometabolism. The metabolic decrement was strikingly asymmetric with a 50% reduction in glucose consumption confined to the left occipital cortex. The picture of occipitotemporoparietal compromise verified by MRI, PET, and neurobehavioural testing would be unusual for such degenerative dementias as Alzheimer's (AD) and Pick's disease, although atypical AD with predominant occipital lobe involvement cannot be excluded. This case supports the concepts of posterior cortical dementia (PCD) as a clinically distinct entity and for the first time documents its corresponding metabolic deficit using PET."}
{"id": "1835787", "title": "Neuropsychological, neurological, and MRI correlates of dementia in advanced Huntington's disease: a single case study.", "content": "Neuropsychological, neurological, and MRI correlates of dementia in advanced Huntington's disease: a single case study. Affected Huntington's disease patients present with a progressive dementia that can be detected with a variety of neuropsychological procedures. Neuropsychological findings include impaired mental flexibility and concentration, deterioration of verbal and procedural memory, diminished nonverbal memory, and slowing of both fine and gross motor functions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers unique advantages in depicting morphologic changes associated with Huntington's disease. Frontotemporal atrophy and, in particular, atrophy of the corpus striatum are characteristically observed. Given the ease of obtaining coronal images and the improved differentiation of gray matter and white matter, MRI can provide better identification of these findings than traditional imaging methods such as computed tomography (CT). Finally, the presence of steadily progressive neuropsychological deterioration in conjunction with characteristic atrophy observed on MRI can be combined with diminished metabolic activity of the corpus striatum as observed on positron emission tomography (PET) for added diagnostic specificity."}
{"id": "1825496", "title": "The FDG/PET methodology for early detection of disease onset: a statistical model.", "content": "The FDG/PET methodology for early detection of disease onset: a statistical model. The development of appropriate statistical methodologies for neuroimaging studies is dependent upon the research question of interest. Often studies are analyzed with techniques that may not be appropriate for the research question but are accepted owing to convention, familiarity, or apparent statistical sophistication. Neuroimaging data are particularly complex owing to (a) the high number of potential dependent variables (i.e., regions of interest) coupled with the practical limitations on sample size; (b) the known physical properties of scanners (e.g., resolution) interacting with the intricate and variable structure of the human brain; and (c) mathematical properties introduced into the data by the physiological model for quantification. In this article, a statistical model will be discussed for addressing a particular problem in clinical studies. Given that there is a characteristic abnormality in regional glucose metabolism in a specific disease, can a probabilistic statement be made with confidence regarding the likelihood of an individual scan being similar to those from the disease group or normal subjects? The model capitalizes on known statistical aspects of normal regional glucose metabolism. To illustrate the model, data will be presented on normal subjects, patients with confirmed Huntington's disease, and subjects at risk for the disease. Reliability and clinical validity of the model will be discussed."}
{"id": "1802960", "title": "Coronal reconstruction images of glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Coronal reconstruction images of glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Coronal images of position emission tomography (PET) by 18F-labelled deoxyglucose reconstructed from interpolated scan in Alzheimer's disease clearly indicated suppression of glucose metabolism in the parietal lobe and lateral part of the temporal lobes, compared to normal controls. The medial part of the temporal lobes in Alzheimer's disease did show a mildly lower glucose metabolic rate than that in normal controls; therefore it is suggested that the parietal and lateral parts of the temporal lobes are primary affected regions in Alzheimer's disease, not the medial part of the temporal lobe, including the hippocampus."}
{"id": "1780392", "title": "Changes in glucose metabolism in dementia of the Alzheimer type compared with depression: a preliminary report.", "content": "Changes in glucose metabolism in dementia of the Alzheimer type compared with depression: a preliminary report. We evaluated positron emission tomography (PET) in the differential diagnosis of depression and Alzheimer's disease. The local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRGlc) in the parahippocampal gyrus-hippocampus and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were determined. The ratio of the LCMRGlc in those two regions was examined in patients with unipolar depression, bipolar depression, and Alzheimer's dementia. An analysis of variance revealed significant overall intergroup differences in values for both hemispheres. Student's t test showed significant differences in LCMRGlc for both unipolar and bipolar depression as compared with Alzheimer's dementia. These data indicate that PET may be useful in the differential diagnosis of dementia vs. depression."}
{"id": "1776760", "title": "Abnormalities of energy metabolism in Alzheimer's disease studied with PET.", "content": "Abnormalities of energy metabolism in Alzheimer's disease studied with PET. Positron emission tomography (PET) is currently the only technology affording three-dimensional measurement of the brain's energy metabolism which is closely coupled to brain function. Studies of glucose metabolism by PET of (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose are therefore widely applied to show the contribution of various brain structures in the performance of a variety of tasks or their participation in functional deficits associated with various diseases. Although glucose metabolism decreases slightly with age to a regionally different degree, most types of dementia show severe changes in glucose metabolism. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by metabolic disturbances most prominent in the parietotemporal association cortex and later in the frontal lobe, whereas primary cortical areas, basal ganglia, thalamus, brainstem, and cerebellum are not affected. It is this typical pattern that distinguishes AD from other dementia syndromes. A ratio calculated from the metabolic rates of glucose of \"affected\" and \"nonaffected\" brain regions was able to separate patients with AD from age-matched controls and permitted the discrimination of patients with cognitive impairment of other origin in 85%. The discriminative power can be further improved by activation studies. A continuous visual recognition task increased the metabolic rate in normal subjects by 21% and in patients with AD by 6% on average, with significant regional differences. During activation the significant relation between severity of disease and temporoparietal metabolic rate became even stronger. In the assessment of effects of treatment on disturbed metabolism, PET studies demonstrated an equalization of metabolic heterogeneities in patients responding to a muscarinergic cholinagonist, whereas general increases in glucose utilization were observed with piracetam, pyritinol, and phosphatidyl-serine. The therapeutic relevance of such metabolic effects, however, must be proved in controlled clinical trials."}
{"id": "1772739", "title": "Positron emission tomography in Alzheimer's disease in relation to disease pathogenesis: a critical review.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in Alzheimer's disease in relation to disease pathogenesis: a critical review. PET studies of brain metabolism and blood flow in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients lead to the following conclusions: (a) Reductions in \"resting state\" regional brain metabolism are roughly proportional to dementia severity. (b) These reductions are greater in association than in primary sensory and motor neocortical regions, and correlate with the distribution of neuropathology and cell loss postmortem. (c) Demented but not nondemented Down syndrome adults also have worse metabolic reductions in the association than primary neocortices, suggesting an equivalent pathological process in demented Down syndrome and AD patients. (d) Brain metabolic patterns in AD patients are heterogeneous, belonging to at least four distinct metabolic groups that correspond to different patterns of cognitive and behavioral abnormalities; the metabolic patterns have not been shown to be related to disease etiology. (e) Abnormal right-left metabolic asymmetries in mildly demented AD patients can retain their initial directions for as long as 48 months; these asymmetries precede and predict the cognitive \"discrepancies\" that later appear, such that moderately demented patients with disproportionate visuospatial compared with language deficits, or disproportionate visual recall compared with verbal recall, have a greater metabolic reduction in the right than left hemisphere, and vice versa. (f) Parietal association/frontal association metabolic ratios also retain their direction over time; in moderately demented patients, relative hypometabolism in the prefrontal association cortex is related to deficits in verbal fluency and attention to simple sets, whereas relative hypometabolism in the parietal association cortex correlates with failure in arithmetic, verbal comprehension, drawing, and immediate memory for visuospatial location. (g) Although metabolically spared compared with the association cortices, the primary sensory cortices, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellar hemispheres show metabolic declines in AD using high-resolution PET scanners, possibly due to their connections with more pathologically affected regions. (h) Early metabolic deficits in AD are hypothesized to arise from synaptic failure in association cortical areas; such failure in the occipitotemporal visual cortex can be reversed in mildly to moderately demented AD patients who are capable of performing a face-matching task."}
{"id": "1753242", "title": "Positron emission tomography in the differential diagnosis of organic dementias.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in the differential diagnosis of organic dementias. At present, PET is the only technology affording the quantitative, three-dimensional imaging of various aspects of brain function. Since function and metabolism are coupled, and since glucose is the dominant substrate of the brain's energy metabolism, studies of glucose metabolism by PET of 2(18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) are widely applied for investigating the participation of various brain systems in simple or complex stimulations and tasks. In focal or diffuse disorders of the brain, functional impairment of affected or inactivated brain regions is a reproducible finding. While glucose metabolism is decreased slightly with age in a regionally different degree, in most types of dementia severe changes of glucose metabolism are observed. Degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type is characterized by a metabolic disturbance most prominent in the parieto-occipito-temporal association cortex and later in the frontal lobe, while primary cortical areas, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum are not affected. By this typical pattern Alzheimer disease can be differentiated from other dementia syndromes, as e.g., Pick's disease (with the metabolic depression most prominent in the frontal and temporal lobe), multi infarct dementia (with multiple focal metabolic defects), and Huntington's chorea (with metabolic disturbance in the neostriatum). In demented patients PET studies can also be applied to the quantification of treatment effects on disturbed metabolism."}
{"id": "1744644", "title": "Striatal blood flow, glucose metabolism and 18F-dopa uptake: difference in Parkinson's disease and atypical parkinsonism.", "content": "Striatal blood flow, glucose metabolism and 18F-dopa uptake: difference in Parkinson's disease and atypical parkinsonism. Striatal blood flow, glucose metabolism and 18F-Dopa uptake were studied with positron emission tomography (PET) in eight non-demented patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and eight with atypical Parkinsonism. Patients with atypical Parkinsonism had no specific cause for the Parkinsonian symptoms and were clinically different from Parkinson's disease with lack of resting tremor and a poor response to dopaminergic drugs. Decreased 18F-Dopa uptake in the putamen was observed in patients with Parkinson's disease and atypical Parkinsonism compared with normal controls. 18F-Dopa uptake in the head of the caudate was also significantly reduced in both conditions but relatively less in Parkinson's disease. Decreased blood flow and glucose metabolism in the striatum associated with a global cerebral decrease were also observed in patients with atypical Parkinsonism compared with controls, while they were preserved in patients with Parkinson's disease, indicating affected neurons not only in the striatum but also in the cerebrum in patients with atypical Parkinsonism compared with patients with Parkinson's disease. The differences in the caudate 18F-Dopa uptake, and blood flow and glucose metabolism in the cerebrum including the striatum between Parkinson's disease and atypical Parkinsonism assessed by PET may be due to the differences in the pathophysiological mechanism between Parkinson's disease and atypical Parkinsonism."}
{"id": "1726307", "title": "Change of cerebral glucose metabolism by antineoplastic drug.", "content": "Change of cerebral glucose metabolism by antineoplastic drug. To estimate change of cerebral glucose metabolism by anticancer drugs, positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was performed in 11 patients with malignancies who did not show neurological symptoms. In a patient treated with intravenous high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) and intrathecal MTX, apparent decrease of glucose metabolism was observed. HD-MTX and intrathecal MTX may cause cerebral glucose metabolism disorder primarily. Cerebral glucose metabolism was also mildly reduced by chemotherapy with drugs other than MTX and by radiotherapy outside the brain, with a corresponding change of blood data. It may reflect a psychosomatic change in whole body."}
{"id": "1719135", "title": "Brain metabolism in Alzheimer's dementia: studies of 11C-deoxyglucose accumulation, CSF monoamine metabolites and neuropsychological test performance in patients and healthy subjects.", "content": "Brain metabolism in Alzheimer's dementia: studies of 11C-deoxyglucose accumulation, CSF monoamine metabolites and neuropsychological test performance in patients and healthy subjects. Thirteen patients with dementia of Alzheimer type and nine age-matched control subjects were examined by a battery of neuropsychological tests and by positron emission tomography (PET) with 11C-deoxyglucose as a tracer for regional glucose metabolism in the brain. Concentrations of the monoamine metabolites HVA, MHPG and 5-HIAA were determined in the CSF from patients and controls. In the patients there was a diminished glucose metabolism in posterior parietal and superior temporal cortex areas to 60% of control levels. Other cortical areas showed similar changes, whereas the pre- and postcentral area, the cerebellum, the hippocampus and the basal ganglia showed less or no change. The decline in cortical metabolism in the patients was symmetrical but the variation in the left/right ratio was greater than in the controls. The CSF levels of monoamine metabolites did not differ between patients and controls. High levels of the metabolites were associated with low rates of glucose metabolism, possibly due to inhibitory influences of monoaminergic pathways upon cortical and subcortical neurons. The rate of glucose metabolism correlated positively with the neuropsychological test performance in both patients and controls. Verbal and memory performances were associated with greater left hemisphere metabolism in the patients, but not in the controls, whereas non-verbal abilities tended to be associated with right hemisphere metabolic dominance."}
{"id": "2381507", "title": "PET and P300 relationships in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET and P300 relationships in early Alzheimer's disease. The P300 (P3) wave of the auditory brain event-related potential was investigated in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease to determine whether P300 latency discriminated these patients from controls and whether prolonged P300 latency correlated with rates of brain glucose metabolism as measured by Positron Emission Tomography. P300 latency was prolonged by more than 1.5 standard deviations from age expectancy in 14 of 18 patients, but none of 17 controls. In these subjects P300 latency was shown to be inversely correlated with relative metabolic rates of parietal and, to a lesser extent, temporal and frontal association areas, but not with subcortical areas."}
{"id": "2381074", "title": "[Measurements of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Measurements of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease]. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to measure cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In the patients, values for CBF, CMRO2, and CMRglc have been shown to drop by 30-50% in comparison to age-matched normal controls. In the early stage (stage I), reductions in CBF and CMRO2 are prominent in the temporal and the temporoparietal cortices. In stage II, reduction in the parietal cortex also become quite prominent, and in the late stage (stage III) reduction begins prominently in the frontal cortex as well. These PET findings in Alzheimer's disease differ from those in vascular dementia, Pick's disease, and Huntington's disease. In the interrelationship among CBF, CMRO2 and higher brain function, CBF and CMRO2 decrease especially in the left frontal, the left temporal and the left parietal cortices in patients with marked language disability. On the contrary, CBF and CMRO2 decrease in the right temporal and the right parietal cortices in patients with marked apraxia and visuospatial deficits. Cerebral blood flow and metabolism are closely related to the functioning of nerve cells. Therefore we can isolate the region responsible for higher brain dysfunction and similarly evaluate the effects of treatment using cerebral blood flow and metabolism measurements."}
{"id": "2376611", "title": "[Studies of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type and diagnostic evaluation of the dementing illnesses by positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Studies of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type and diagnostic evaluation of the dementing illnesses by positron emission tomography]. This study was designed to estimate cerebral dysfunction in senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), oxygen extraction fraction (rOEF) and cerebral oxygen consumption (rCMRO2) were studied in 16 patients with SDAT and 5 age-matched normal elderly people by positron emission tomography (PET), using the 15O labeled CO2 and O2 inhalation technique. This technique was also applied to the evaluation of PET in diagnosing the dementing illnesses. In this study, a total of 19 pairs of bilateral cerebral regions were analyzed and the reductions of rCBF and rCMRO2 in each region were compared with those of the primary sensorimotor cortex to demonstrate any significant localized difference between each clinical stage of the SDAT and normal controls. In the mild SDAT group, CMRO2 of the temporal cortex was significantly reduced, as compared with that of controls. In the moderate SDAT group, CBF of the temporal cortex and CMRO2 of the temporal and parietal cortices were significantly reduced. In the severe SDAT group, CBF and CMRO2 of the frontal cortex were also reduced and those of the occipital cortex were relatively unchanged. This suggested that mildly demented patients showed a metabolic reduction in the temporal cortex and as the dementia progressed, metabolic reductions were extended to the parietal and frontal cortices. Reductions in blood flow were followed by further metabolic reductions. More detailed investigation of the PET images of SDAT revealed that relative oxygen hypometabolism of the posterior temporal and posterior parietal association cortices occurred in the mildly demented patients earlier than that of the other association cortices. These findings are consistent with neuropathological studies of SDAT. The right/left ratio of rCMRO2 was also analyzed in each region. The right/left oxygen metabolic asymmetry in the temporal and parietal cortices was correlated with the difference between speech and visuospatial functions. Namely, the patients with a lower metabolism in the left hemisphere had more disturbances in speech than visuospatial functions. In addition, the PET images of SDAT were compared with those of multi-infarct dementia (MID) and Pick disease. In patients with MID, there were reductions of CBF and CMRO2 unhomogenously all over association cortices, but the reductions were most remarkable in the frontal cortex. Patients with Pick disease showed diffuse lobar reductions of CBF and CMRO2 in the frontal and temporal cortices.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2375634", "title": "Selective hypometabolism in the inferior frontal lobe in depressed patients with Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Selective hypometabolism in the inferior frontal lobe in depressed patients with Parkinson's disease. Depression is a frequent finding in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was measured in depressed and nondepressed patients with PD and in age-comparable normal control subjects using 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography (PET). Relative metabolic activity in the caudate and orbital-inferior region of the frontal lobe was significantly lower in the depressed patients with PD as compared to both nondepressed patients and control subjects. There was a significant inverse correlation between relative glucose metabolism in the orbital-inferior area of the frontal lobe and depression scores. This study suggests that depression in PD is associated with dysfunction in the caudate and orbital-inferior area of the frontal lobe. This metabolic pattern is unlike that seen in patients with PD who have other behavioral deficits such as dementia, and suggests that disruption of basal ganglia circuits involving the inferior region of the frontal lobe may affect the regulation of mood."}
{"id": "2320683", "title": "The onset of Alzheimer's disease. A longitudinal case study and a trial of new diagnostic criteria.", "content": "The onset of Alzheimer's disease. A longitudinal case study and a trial of new diagnostic criteria. We had the opportunity to document the onset of presenile Alzheimer's disease in a female patient who presented at a very early stage and was followed for 18 months at close intervals. Disturbances of memory, of intellectual abilities, and of language were the initial symptoms, which caused significant impairment of working performance several months before becoming apparent at home. The clinically evident progression of the disease was confirmed by psychometric tests but was overlooked by cognitive screening batteries and by global severity ratings. In the absence of any signs of brain atrophy, even on repeated X-ray computed tomography, a severe temporoparietal reduction of glucose metabolism was disclosed by positron emission tomography. The typical case demonstrated several imperfections of newly introduced diagnostic criteria in their ability to identify early Alzheimer's disease. Improvements for some of these deficiencies are suggested."}
{"id": "2317335", "title": "Assessing utility of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan in Alzheimer disease: correlation with cognitive severity.", "content": "Assessing utility of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan in Alzheimer disease: correlation with cognitive severity. Diagnosis of probable Alzheimer disease (AD) is made by a combination of characteristic clinical findings, when normal laboratory studies reveal no structural or metabolic cause of the dementia. Definite diagnosis of AD, however, can only be made with brain tissue examination. PET scanning reveals parietotemporal decreases in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose metabolism that differentiate AD from normal elderly and from multi-infarct dementia. Preliminary studies suggest that similar defects in CBF are detectable in single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in AD. Utilizing the iodinated ligand [123I] HIPDM ([123I] hydroxyiodobenzylpropanediamine), we studied 19 patients with probable AD of varying severity, with emphasis on mild cases, to assess the utility of SPECT as a diagnostic test in AD. Parietotemporal perfusion on SPECT was decreased unilaterally or bilaterally in 16 of 19 AD patients, similar to the defects reported with PET. The degree and extent of decreased CBF on SPECT correlated with AD severity. Strong correlations were obtained between decreases in computer-generated ratios of parietal to cerebellar activity and the level of cognitive function. SPECT was read as normal (on the radiographic film) by the nuclear medicine physician in all cases with Mini-Mental State (MMS) score greater than 24, and showed bilateral parietal perfusion deficits in only 1 of 4 patients with MMS between 22 and 24. Ten of 12 patients with MMS less than or equal to 21 had bilateral parietal abnormalities; the other 2 had unilateral perfusion defects. All patients with MMS less than 15 were bilaterally abnormal. SPECT is less expensive and more widely available than PET, and may have an adjunctive role in diagnosis of AD and other dementias if utilized under the proper circumstances."}
{"id": "2311010", "title": "18Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography studies in presumed Alzheimer cases, including 13 serial scans.", "content": "18Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography studies in presumed Alzheimer cases, including 13 serial scans. Positron emission tomographic (PET) data on local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (LCMR) are reported for 32 regions of interest (ROI)s in cross-sectional studies on 57 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 20 neurologically normal controls, and in serial studies on 13 of the AD cases, including a familial, young-onset case where the diagnosis has been confirmed at autopsy. Extensive psychological testing was done on all the AD cases. Almost all cortical regions showed a significant decline in LCMR with age in the control subjects. There were the expected cortical metabolic deficits in AD and the serial studies showed a general increase in such deficits over time in 12 of the 13 cases. The regions showing the greatest declines with time in serial studies are the same as those showing the most severe deficiencies in cross-sectional studies. The young-onset case did not show a greater rate of metabolic decline than many of the older cases studied. Results on individual psychological tests tended to correlate with metabolic rates in multiple, rather than single, cortical regions, suggesting intact neuronal networks are required for good performance. The correlations with cortical metabolic activity found were of a sign indicating that the higher the metabolic rates and the better the left:right asymmetry index, the better was the performance."}
{"id": "2292695", "title": "Progressive degeneration of the right temporal lobe studied with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Progressive degeneration of the right temporal lobe studied with positron emission tomography. A 79 year old man with a twelve year progressive history of prosopagnosia and recent naming difficulty, in whom other intellectual skills were preserved, is described. Positron emission tomography (PET) revealed an area of right temporal lobe hypometabolism, with an additional area of less severe hypometabolism at the left temporal pole. This may represent an example of progressive focal cortical degeneration similar to that associated with primary progressive dysphasia, but affecting the right temporal lobe."}
{"id": "2276233", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO/SPECT determination of regional cerebral blood flow changes in schizophrenics.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO/SPECT determination of regional cerebral blood flow changes in schizophrenics. Hypofrontality (hypometabolism and hypoperfusion) has been demonstrated in patients with schizophrenia by the use of several imaging methods, such as positron emission tomography (PET). In this study, Tc-99m hexamethylpropylene amineoxime (HMPAO) and SPECT were used to investigate regional blood flow changes in 20 schizophrenic patients (12 males and 8 females, aged 15-50 years) experiencing acoustic hallucinations. Tc-99m HM-PAO (15-20 mCi) was injected intravenously, eight regions/hemisphere were drawn on transaxial sections, and tracer redistribution was calculated for each region. Frontal/occipital ratios (0.917 +/- 0.045) and frontal/whole-slice ratios (0.984 +/- 0.036) were determined for each patient. The patients had significantly lower frontal/occipital ratios (P less than 0.0005) and lower frontal/whole-slice ratios (P less than 0.01) in comparison to a normal group (11 cases)."}
{"id": "2264076", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with vascular dementia of the Binswanger type.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. We performed clinical and neuroradiologic studies, including positron emission tomography, in five patients with vascular dementia of the Binswanger type. The clinical features of these cases consisted of slowly progressive dementia, together with vascular risk factors such as hypertension and often a history of minor stroke, and characteristic white matter lesions on brain computed tomograms or magnetic resonance images. Digital subtraction angiography of the cervical and intracranial arteries demonstrated no occlusive lesion in any patient. Both cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were markedly reduced in the white matter (54-77% of control values), and both were decreased in the parietal (73% of control), frontal (74-80%), and temporal (74-83%) cortices, where no abnormalities were detected by brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. We conclude that vascular dementia of the Binswanger type may be caused by disconnection between the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures due to ischemic damage in the white matter."}
{"id": "2256438", "title": "A case of slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia in a Japanese patient.", "content": "A case of slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia in a Japanese patient. A Japanese patient with a 4-year history of slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia is described. From 1985 on, this 61-yr-old right-handed dentist showed insidiously progressive deterioration in his speech and auditory comprehension, but has no memory disturbance, disorientation of space, time or persons, acalculia or other impairments in his behavior. His personality changes are unremarkable. He still treats patients at his clinic. General physical and neurological examinations were normal. CT and MRI (1.5T) scans showed widening of the left sylvian fissure and lateral ventricle without any vascular lesions. A PET scan demonstrated focal hypometabolism restricted to the left temporal lobe. The clinical course and picture of our patient corresponds, well to those of slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia, described by Mesulam."}
{"id": "2252606", "title": "Subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy: single photon emission computed tomography-magnetic resonance imaging correlation.", "content": "Subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy: single photon emission computed tomography-magnetic resonance imaging correlation. Regional cerebral blood flow was studied using 99mTc-HM-PAO and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in five healthy subjects and in eight patients with clinical and computed tomography (CT) features of subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy. All the patients and controls underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Circumscribed cortical hypoperfusion was observed in three patients, and in one case there was no evidence of cortical or sulcal alterations on MRI. In all the patients, a reduction of the white matter perfusion was found in periventricular and/or supraventricular regions. This pattern was substantially correlated with the typical white matter hyperintensities shown by MRI scans. These findings support the hypothesis that white matter hypoperfusion is the most prominent functional abnormality in subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy."}
{"id": "2246484", "title": "Positron emission tomography demonstrated localized luxury perfusion in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis.", "content": "Positron emission tomography demonstrated localized luxury perfusion in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed on two patients in different stages of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) and compared with the concurrent computed tomography (CT) findings and clinical status. Case 1, which was in stage II, showed luxury perfusion in the anterior half of the cerebrum and decreases of cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in the right frontal watershed zone, where CT showed low density. Case 2, which was in stage III, showed marked decreases of cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in all regions except the occipital region. The present PET study demonstrated that SSPE showed inflammatory-destructive progression and rostral-caudal progression. Further, it was suspected that low density on CT scan, especially in the watershed zone, resulted partly from disturbances in cerebral circulation."}
{"id": "2239454", "title": "Brain glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Brain glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "2237453", "title": "Brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome dementia complex.", "content": "Brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome dementia complex. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections are accompanied by many different types of neurological complications. Opportunistic infections and neoplasms, particularly lymphoma, are often an underlying cause for these complications in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Frequently, these can be detected by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination, double-dose contrast transmission computed tomography (CT), and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). It has become apparent that the HIV itself is responsible for a significant percentage of neurological disease in the HIV-seropositive individual. The onset may be subtle and may occur before the onset of frank immunosuppression. Diagnosis of HIV encephalitis or AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is complicated by the frequent coexistence of opportunistic infections. Structural neuroimaging (CT or MRI) shows atrophy and in some case white matter abnormalities, but imaging-pathological correlation suggests that these modalities are relatively insensitive to the presence of HIV brain infection. Functional neuroimaging, both 18fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) for evaluation of glucose metabolism and 123I iodoamphetamine or 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for evaluation of cerebral perfusion, can demonstrate abnormalities in the subcortical gray matter structures and the cerebral cortex in patients with ADC. These abnormalities may be observed early in the course of ADC even when MRI is negative and the patient is relatively asymptomatic. Also, PET and SPECT may be useful to follow progression of the dementia or response to therapy."}
{"id": "2214329", "title": "[Brain glucose metabolism in a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease measured by positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Brain glucose metabolism in a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease measured by positron emission tomography]. Sequential measurements of local cerebral glucose metabolism were performed in a case with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The diagnosis was based on the characteristic clinical symptoms and EEG. Cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRGlc) was measured by positron emission tomography (PET) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose. CMRGlc was decreased to about 45% of the normal value. At that time, X-ray CT revealed little brain atrophy. The decrease of CMRGlc was prominent in cerebral cortices, but the metabolic decrease was slight in striatal body, cerebellum, and brainstem. The motor cortex and occipital lobe showed relatively preserved metabolism among the cerebral cortices. Six months after the first PET measurement, X-ray CT showed marked brain atrophy. Decrease of cerebral glucose metabolism advanced furthermore. However, the progress of the decrease was relatively small in the basal ganglia, brainstem, and cerebellar nucleus. These findings differ from the findings that was known by pathological study. These results suggest that measurement of CMRGlc by PET is useful for the early detection and for understanding of the pathophysiology of this disease."}
{"id": "2213642", "title": "Cerebral metabolic and cognitive studies in dementia with frontal lobe behavioral features.", "content": "Cerebral metabolic and cognitive studies in dementia with frontal lobe behavioral features. Three subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) with frontal lobe features of behavioral disinhibition were studied using positron emission tomography with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18 FDG) and standardized neuropsychological tests. The three subjects showed significant decrements (p less than .05) in relative glucose metabolism (regional/mean gray metabolism) in the orbitofrontal, prefrontal and anterior cingulate regions when compared to healthy controls. Severity-matched subjects with DAT without the associated frontal lobe features did not show the relative reductions in glucose metabolism in these regions when compared to controls. However, on neuropsychological testing of frontal lobe cognitive functions the three subjects did not show decrements that were more severe than those shown by severity-matched DAT patients without the behavioral features. These data demonstrate physiologic dysfunction in specific cortical regions in subjects with behavioral aberrations attributed to these regions and an apparent dissociation between behavioral and cognitive functions of the frontal lobe."}
{"id": "2204331", "title": "Positron emission tomography in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was studied in a 73-year-old woman with autopsy-confirmed Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, using positron emission tomography of 2-(18F)fluorodeoxyglucose. Regional absolute values were analyzed in 14 partially overlapping slices. Clinically, the patient was in an advanced stage of disease when positron emission tomographic scans revealed severe, diffuse hypometabolism, and neuropathological findings showed diffuse spongiform changes throughout the brain, with neuronal cell loss being obvious only in the cerebellum. Computed tomography was unremarkable for age, whereas the positron emission tomographic results were in accordance with histological findings and the patient's clinical condition. This article suggests that positron emission tomography depicts neuronal dysfunction rather than neuronal cell loss."}
{"id": "2147116", "title": "Cortical and subcortical glucose consumption measured by PET in patients with Huntington's disease.", "content": "Cortical and subcortical glucose consumption measured by PET in patients with Huntington's disease. In 23 patients with moderate to severe Huntington's disease (HD) and 21 normal volunteers, the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption (rCMRGlc) was measured in the cerebellum, thalamus, striatum, and cortex using positron emission tomography and the 18F-deoxyglucose method. In contrast to previous reports, rCMRGlc was reduced not only in the striatum, but also in the cerebral cortex of patients with HD as compared with normal subjects. No significant difference between HD patients and normal subjects was found for thalamic and cerebellar rCMRGlc. To investigate the relationship between the clinical status and rCMRGlc, correlation coefficients for the clinical data were calculated for absolute values of rCMRGlc and for cerebellar ratios (CR) of rCMRGlc. The duration of chorea correlated significantly only with the absolute values of frontoparietal and temporo-occipital rCMRGlc and with the CRs of most cortical regions evaluated. The severity of chorea correlated significantly only with lentiform nucleus rCMRGlc. The severity of dementia correlated significantly only with the frontoparietal and temporo-occipital rCMRGlc, the CRs of most cortical regions, and the CR for the caudate nucleus. The degree of disability correlated significantly with the CRs of all regions evaluated except the occipital and the superior frontal cortex. It appears from this study that there is a reduction not only for the striatum but also for cortical rCMRGlc in patients with manifest HD, and that the cortical reduction of rCMRGlc contributes to the severity of clinical symptoms in these patients. This challenges the concept that dementia in HD is of purely subcortical origin."}
{"id": "2141358", "title": "Normal striatal glucose consumption in two patients with benign hereditary chorea as measured by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Normal striatal glucose consumption in two patients with benign hereditary chorea as measured by positron emission tomography. Positron emission tomography (PET) with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) was used to investigate the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption (rCMRGlc) in two patients with benign hereditary chorea (BHC) and 21 normal subjects. Relative and absolute values of cerebellar, striatal, thalamic, and cortical rCMRGlc were within normal limits for both patients with BHC, indicating that the choreic movement disorder encountered in these two patients was not caused by a decrease of energy metabolism in the striatum such as that found regularly in most patients with other forms of chorea (e.g. Huntington's and Wilson's disease)."}
{"id": "2137464", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism is normal in young adults with Down syndrome.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism is normal in young adults with Down syndrome. Regional CMRglc (rCMRglc) values were measured with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET), using a Scanditronix PC-1024-7B scanner, in 14 healthy, noninstitutionalized subjects with trisomy 21 (Down syndrome; DS) (mean age 30.0 years, range 25-38 years) and in 13 sex-matched, healthy volunteers (mean age 29.5 years, range 22-38 years). In the DS group, mean mental age on the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test was 7.8 years and dementia was not present. Resting rCMRglc was determined with eyes covered and ears occluded in a quiet, darkened room. Global gray CMRglc equaled 8.76 +/- 0.76 mg/100 g/min (mean +/- SD) in the DS group as compared with 8.74 +/- 1.19 mg/100 g/min in the control group (p greater than 0.05). Gray matter regional measurements also did not differ between groups. The ratio of rCMRglc to global CMRglc, calculated to reduce the variance associated with absolute rCMRglc, and right/left ratios did not show any consistent differences. These results show that healthy young DS adults do not have alterations in regional or global brain glucose metabolism, as measured with 18FDG and PET, prior to an age at which the neuropathological changes in Alzheimer disease are reported to occur."}
{"id": "2136791", "title": "Relation of EEG alpha background to cognitive function, brain atrophy, and cerebral metabolism in Down's syndrome. Age-specific changes.", "content": "Relation of EEG alpha background to cognitive function, brain atrophy, and cerebral metabolism in Down's syndrome. Age-specific changes. We studied 19 young adults (19 to 37 years old) and 9 older patients (42 to 66 years old) with Down's syndrome (DS) and a control group of 13 healthy adults (22 to 38 years old) to investigate the relation of electroencephalographic (EEG) alpha background to cognitive function and cerebral metabolism. Four of the older patients with DS had a history of mental deterioration, disorientation, and memory loss and were demented. Patients and control subjects had EEGs, psychometric testing, quantitative computed tomography, and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18. A \"blinded\" reader classified the EEGs into two groups--those with normal alpha background or those with abnormal background. All the control subjects, the 13 young adult patients with DS, and the 5 older patients with DS had normal EEG backgrounds. In comparison with the age-matched patients with DS with normal alpha background, older patients with DS with decreased alpha background had dementia, fewer visuospatial skills, decreased attention span, larger third ventricles, and a global decrease in cerebral glucose utilization with parietal hypometabolism. In the young patients with DS, the EEG background did not correlate with psychometric or positron emission tomographic findings, but the third ventricles were significantly larger in those with abnormal EEG background. The young patients with DS, with or without normal EEG background, had positron emission tomographic findings similar to those of the control subjects. The mechanism underlying the abnormal EEG background may be the neuropathologic changes of Alzheimer's disease in older patients with DS and may be cerebral immaturity in younger patients with DS."}
{"id": "2136389", "title": "Subgroups in dementia of the Alzheimer type identified using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Subgroups in dementia of the Alzheimer type identified using positron emission tomography. We examined patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism in 33 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type by applying principal component analysis to identify subgroups. Four subgroups were identified: one with predominant parietotemporal hypometabolism (15 patients); one with paralimbic metabolic deficits (8 patients); one with left hemisphere neocortical abnormality (5 patients); and one with frontal and parietotemporal deficit (5 patients). Differences among the subgroups were found in neuropsychological impairments and prevalence of psychiatric symptoms. These metabolic subgroups could not be explained on the basis of dementia severity, illness duration, or age, but were most likely related to an underlying pathology with a variable regional distribution."}
{"id": "2107711", "title": "Leukoaraiosis: correlation of MR and CT findings with blood flow, atrophy, and cognition.", "content": "Leukoaraiosis: correlation of MR and CT findings with blood flow, atrophy, and cognition. Hypodense periventricular white-matter lesions detected by CT (leukoaraiosis) and high-intensity T2 signals detected by MR imaging were correlated with measurements of local cerebral blood flow (LCBF), cerebral atrophy, and cognitive performance. Subjects studied included elderly volunteers who were neurologically normal (n = 6), patients with chronic cerebral infarctions and intact cognition (n = 2), patients with multiinfarct dementia (n = 14), and patients with Alzheimer dementia (n = 9). Leukoaraiosis correlated with periventricular high-intensity lesions detected by MR, LCBF reductions, cognitive impairments, and cerebral atrophy. Moderate to severe leukoaraiosis was associated with LCBF reductions in the cortex, basal ganglia, and frontal white matter. Periventricular MR lesions correlated with cerebral atrophy but not with cognitive impairments or reductions in LCBF. The exquisite sensitivity of MR revealed small lesions that did not correlate with LCBF reductions and cognitive impairments. Remote subcortical white-matter lesions detected by MR did not correlate with periventricular MR lesions, leukoaraiosis, LCBF, cerebral atrophy, or cognitive performance, indicating little clinical relevance. We concluded that diffuse cerebral hypoperfusion, particularly in combination with the poor collateral circulation of white matter surrounding the lateral ventricles, is responsible for leukoaraiosis."}
{"id": "2099873", "title": "[Neurological diseases in the aged].", "content": "[Neurological diseases in the aged]. In this paper, I described clinical and basic problems on neurology of the aged patients. These studies have been done in various institutions with many co-workers. 1) A PET study revealed some age differences on CBF, CMRO2, or CMRgl. But these results are not so rigid in which much of individual variations should be considered in interpretation. Calendar age is not always compatible to biological age. 2) Saccular aneurysms in the brain artery were found in 7.3% of 1200 routine autopsy series of the aged subjects. Aneurysms with external diameter exceeding 6 mm had been fatally ruptured in 14 (78%) of 18 subjects. 3) Variations of the pyramidal crossing are found responsible for bizarre clinical manifestations. Non-crossing component was more prominent in the right pyramidal tract; consequently, right pyramidal tracts including ventral and lateral one seemed to have more extensive representation in the spinal cord level. 4) I123-IMP SPECT study showed a reduced uptake in the area 4 or area 4-6 of the ALS patients. 5) I introduced a new simplified Wartenberg's maneuver, which is useful for detection of subtle pyramidal dysfunctions. 6) Cases with central pontine myelinolysis and those of paraneoplastic syndrome were presented with an emphasis on their patho-chemical mechanisms. 7) Lewis-Sumner syndrome showing multifocal persistent conduction block is not rare in the aged, in which we have already had some useful therapeutic methods. 8) Dementia complicated with neurodegenerative disease was discussed on its clinical and chemical features of mental disturbances. In ALS-dementia, CSF-homovanilic acid reduced significantly than in the control and L-dopa was effective in some patients. 9) Vascular and Alzheimer-type dementias were presented and discussed on their pathogenetic mechanism according to our recent studies with review of literature."}
{"id": "2091324", "title": "Effects of co-dergocrine mesylate (Hydergine) in multi-infarct dementia as evaluated by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Effects of co-dergocrine mesylate (Hydergine) in multi-infarct dementia as evaluated by positron emission tomography. Three female patients aged from 74 to 79 with multi-infarct dementia were studied using positron emission tomography (PET) to assess the effect of co-dergocrine mesylate (Hydergine) on cerebral glucose metabolism. The cerebral glucose utilization (CMRGlc) of each patient was evaluated by PET scan using 2-deoxy-[18F]-2-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG). Following the first PET study, 0.04 mg/kg of co-dergocrine mesylate was injected intravenously with 250 ml saline solution, and then the second PET study was performed. The CMRGlc was determined from the images of the PET scan and the radioactivity of 18F in the plasma. After the administration of co-dergocrine mesylate, the value of CMRGlc increased significantly in the cerebral cortex (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05) and basal ganglia (p less than 0.05) compared with values before the administration, but no significant increase was found in the centrum semiovale. These results suggest that co-dergocrine mesylate stimulates glucose metabolism of neurons in the human brain."}
{"id": "2085920", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen metabolism in patients with dementia of frontal lobe type].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen metabolism in patients with dementia of frontal lobe type]. This study was designed to investigate the differences in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) between patients with dementia of frontal lobe type and patients with Alzheimer's disease. Positron emission tomography (PET) using 15O steady state inhalation technique was carried out in 5 patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia of frontal lobe type and 7 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. CBF and CMRO2 were significantly decreased in the frontal cortex except for precentral region in patients with dementia of frontal lobe type in comparison to those values in patients with Alzheimer's disease. However, in patients with dementia of frontal lobe type CBF and CMRO2 in the parietal cortex and the occipital cortex were relatively preserved when compared with patients with Alzheimer's disease. In comparison with values for CBF and CMRO2 in the posterior part of brain [frontal or temporal/(parietal + occipital)/2 ratio], both values in the frontal cortex were markedly decreased in all 5 patients with dementia of frontal lobe type, but there was no marked reduction in the frontal cortex in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In addition, in 2 patients with dementia of frontal lobe type whose duration of the disease was more than 7 years, CBF and CMRO2 in the temporal cortex were markedly reduced in comparison with values in the posterior part of brain. These results suggested that PET findings of marked reduction in CBF and CMRO2 in the frontal cortex are useful to distinguish dementia of frontal lobe type from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "2079717", "title": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Characteristic regional patterns of decreased cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRG) have been described in a variety of neurodegenerative conditions associated with dementia. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the metabolic pattern in Parkinson's disease is altered by the presence of impaired cognitive function. Glucose metabolism was measured with positron emission tomography in 6 patients with Parkinson's disease and dementia (PDD), 8 patients with Parkinson's disease and normal cognition (PD), and 6 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). All AD patients subsequently had the diagnosis proven neuropathologically at autopsy. Correlation coefficients of the metabolic rates across 32 regions of interest were calculated between each pair of patients. Q-component analysis of the correlation matrix showed that the AD and PD groups formed two distinct clusters and that the PDD group had a metabolic pattern which was similar to that of the AD group. Comparison of standardized rCMRG values showed that the PDD group differed from the PD group in having significantly lower relative rCMRG in the left perirolandic and bilateral angular gyrus regions. There were no significant differences between the PDD and AD groups. These results suggest a similar pattern of cortical dysfunction in both Alzheimer's disease and in Parkinson's disease/dementia."}
{"id": "1981625", "title": "[The use of positron-emission tomography in psychiatry].", "content": "[The use of positron-emission tomography in psychiatry]. Positron-emission tomography (PET), a noninvasive analytical method, made possible the detection of regional alterations in the central nervous system, thus demonstrating \"in vivo\" the presence of biochemical alterations and the organization of cerebral function in the pathological states. The study of glucose cerebral metabolism velocity, performed recently with the aid of PET, reveals that in the patients with thymic disorders the values recorded for the bipolar syndromes differ from those recorded the for unipolar ones. At the same time, the direct measurement of the activity of the neuroanatomic structures involved in schizophrenia and their response to neuroleptics was possible. This technique and the F-fluoro-desixiglucose method were also applied to the patients with Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia, Huntington's disease. Wilson's disease and Parkinson's disease. Suggestive alterations of glucose metabolism velocity were noticed and the neuroanatomic structures involved in the pathological manifestations could be specified."}
{"id": "1979723", "title": "A comparison of neurological, metabolic, structural, and genetic evaluations in persons at risk for Huntington's disease.", "content": "A comparison of neurological, metabolic, structural, and genetic evaluations in persons at risk for Huntington's disease. We compared four diagnostic data sets for the assessment of individuals at risk for Huntington's disease. Fifty-four chorea-free persons were evaluated by neurological examination, positron emission tomography measurement of glucose metabolism, radiographic computerized tomographic measurement of caudate size, and genetic testing at the polymorphic DNA loci D4S10, D4S43, and D4S125. Twelve (22%) persons had abnormal caudate metabolism, 6 (11%) had subtle abnormalities of motor control, and 7 (13%) had computed tomographic evidence of caudate atrophy, compared with an expected gene frequency of 34% for this population. In 20 persons with unambiguous genetic test results or the subsequent phenotypic expression of Huntington's disease (chorea), there was a greater sensitivity of the positron emission tomographic measurement of caudate metabolism (75%) relative to computed tomography (33%) or the clinical examination (17%) for the determination of a subpopulation of probable Huntington's disease gene carriers. Hypometabolism of the putamen and globus pallidus, and hypermetabolism of the precentral gyrus were also associated with a high probability of carrying the Huntington's disease gene. The findings support the hypothesis that abnormalities of cerebral metabolism precede clinical or structural (computed tomographic) abnormalities in gene-positive individuals at risk for Huntington's disease."}
{"id": "2816287", "title": "Glucose metabolism and rate constants in Alzheimer's disease examined with dynamic positron emission tomography scan.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and rate constants in Alzheimer's disease examined with dynamic positron emission tomography scan. Glucose metabolic rate constants in patients with Alzheimer's disease were analyzed using dynamic positron emission tomography with [18-F] fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG). The cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRG) was calculated using obtained rate constants, as well as the autoradiographic method. The half-life and distribution volume of FDG between the blood and the brain tissue were also calculated from obtained metabolic rate constants. The most severely affected metabolic step was the phosphorylation of glucose in the parietotemporal regions. The distribution volume of FDG showed no remarkable deviation from normal controls, while the half-life of FDG was found to be longer in the parietal and temporal regions. The CMRG from rate constants and that from the autoradiographic method showed no remarkable differences."}
{"id": "2812318", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose transport and utilization in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose transport and utilization in Alzheimer's disease. We performed dynamic positron emission tomographic (PET) studies of glucose utilization, using (18F) 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG), in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy age-matched controls, to evaluate blood-brain-barrier glucose transport and glucose utilization rates in the disease. We found no significant differences in rate constants for glucose transport (k1 and k2) and phosphorylation (k3), nor for the vascular fraction (fv), between the 2 groups, although k3 and fv were relatively depressed in temporal cortex in AD. Absolute rates of glucose use were depressed in temporal and parietal cortex, and relative rCMRglc rates were lower in frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices. These data suggest that in AD bidirectional glucose transport is intact, and that temporal-parietal hypometabolism is present upon a background of widespread cortical metabolic impairment."}
{"id": "2804813", "title": "Cortical glutaminase, beta-glucuronidase and glucose utilization in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cortical glutaminase, beta-glucuronidase and glucose utilization in Alzheimer's disease. Large pyramidal neurons of rat and human neocortex stain immunohistochemically for phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG). In a limited number of postmortem brains, we find large reductions in cortical PAG activity in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This finding is consistent with histological evidence that pyramidal neurons are affected in AD. The reductions are greater than those found in the same samples in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) but the possible deleterious effects of coma and similar premortem factors on human PAG activity have yet to be assessed. The activity of beta-glucuronidase, a lysosomal enzyme which occurs in reactive astrocytes, is elevated in the same samples. Positron emission tomography (PET) studies, using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), have demonstrated significant deficiencies in glucose metabolism in the cortex in AD, with the parietal, temporal and some frontal areas being particularly affected. We found in serial scans of 13 AD cases, including one relatively young (44-46 year old) familial case, an exacerbation of the defect over time in most cases. We have found a negative correlation between the regional metabolic rates for glucose (LCMR(s] measured premortem and the beta-glucuronidase activities measured postmortem on a few AD cases that have come to autopsy. The correlations between LCMR(s) and PAG and ChAT activities tend to be positive. The results are consistent with previous suggestions that decreased LCMR(s) in AD reflect local neuronal loss and gliosis."}
{"id": "2798056", "title": "[Comparison study of positron emission tomography, X-ray CT and MRI in parkinsonism with dementia].", "content": "[Comparison study of positron emission tomography, X-ray CT and MRI in parkinsonism with dementia]. In cases of Parkinson's disease, a high incidence of dementia and simultaneous pathologic changes of Alzheimer's type have been reported. X-ray CT and MRI have such good spatial resolution that they can be expected to be useful for evaluation of brain atrophy. Positron emission tomography (PET) used with 18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose is considered to reflect regional function. By these techniques, brain atrophy and local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (LCMR-glc) in patients with Parkinsonism with dementia was studied, and also compared with age-matched normal controls and senile dementia of Alzheimer type. In seven cases of Parkinson's disease with dementia, LCMRs-glc were statistically decreased in all regions in comparison with ten normal controls. LCMRs-glc in six Parkinson's disease without dementia were higher than those of demented Parkinson's disease, but significantly lower than normal controls in all regions except basal ganglia. Some aged normal controls presented cortical atrophy and a significant difference could not be seen in evaluation by MRI among these three groups. There was also no correlation between LCMR-glc and cortical atrophy. There was no significant difference of LCMR-glc between six Guamnian cases of Parkinsonism-Dementia complex (PD complex) without ALS and four cases of PD complex with ALS, and these values were significantly lower than five Guamanian and ten Caucasian normal controls. In PD complex with and without ALS, remarkable cortical atrophy and ventricular dilatation were recorded in comparison with normal controls, and correlation between decrement of LCMR-glc and cortical atrophy was indicated in frontal, parietal and temporal lobe. In Parkinson's disease with dementia and PD complex in Guam, LCMRs-glc in all regions of brain were generally lower than normal controls. These findings were different from Alzheimer's disease in which LCMR-glc have been reported to be low especially in cerebral cortex. On the other hand, cortical atrophy and ventricular dilatation evaluated by MRI and CT was apparent in PD complex, but these changes were not remarkable in Parkinson's disease. Cortical atrophy did not always correlate with the decrease of LCMR-glc and changes of LCMR-glc could reflect clinical signs such as Parkinsonism and dementia. Both PET as a functional imaging method and MRI, CT as an anatomical imaging method are useful to access the study of these diseases."}
{"id": "2795200", "title": "Comparison of CT, MR, and PET in Alzheimer's dementia and normal aging.", "content": "Comparison of CT, MR, and PET in Alzheimer's dementia and normal aging. We compared the findings of computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR), and positron emission tomography (PET) scans of glucose metabolism in 30 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's Disease (DAT) to those noted in 25 age-matched normal controls. Mean ratings of cortical and ventricular atrophy on CT and of metabolic abnormality on PET were significantly different (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.0001, respectively) between two subject groups, however, there was a considerable overlap in reading of cortical atrophy. CT hypodensities were present in 17% of DAT patients and 12% of controls. MR revealed numerous additional periventricular and deep white matter signal changes. Neither hypodensities nor hyperintensities were correlated with PET abnormalities. Although, not infrequently, hypometabolic areas on PET scans corresponded to atrophic regions on anatomic images, they also occurred without such changes. Interestingly, cortical high signal intensity seen on MRI was frequently observed to be associated with areas of hypometabolism. Our results suggest that PET may be the most sensitive modality for detecting cortical involvement in DAT."}
{"id": "2789034", "title": "Cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in partial seizures.", "content": "Cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in partial seizures. Patients with partial seizures have cognitive function impairments that have been attributed to the toxic side effects of anticonvulsants and structural cerebral damage. However, even when these factors are absent, neuropsychological (NP) deficits have been demonstrated, although of milder degree than in structurally brain-damaged patients. Assessment of cerebral metabolism using positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) reveals focal physiologic deficits in structurally normal areas. Using both SPECT and NP assessment with the Halstead-Reitan Battery, we evaluated 50 patients with partial seizures. Comparison of the location of visually identified regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) deficits in these patients with the location of the NP deficits revealed a significant correlation. Additional analyses indicated that rCBF quantification in visually identified areas of hypoperfusion was significantly lower than in \"normal\" areas and that quantified NP variables significantly discriminated patients with and without visual rCBF deficits in temporal and frontal brain regions."}
{"id": "2788851", "title": "Alzheimer's disease with prominent visual symptoms. Clinical and metabolic evaluation.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease with prominent visual symptoms. Clinical and metabolic evaluation. The authors examined eight patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT), five with prominent visual symptoms early in the illness (VS) and three with no visual symptoms (NVS). Results of neuro-ophthalmologic examinations on VS patients showed relatively consistent abnormalities in figure copying, color vision tested by isochromatic plates, and stereopsis. Cerebral glucose metabolism determined by 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) was unchanged in primary visual cortex of VS and NVS patients compared with 12 normal volunteers of similar age and sex. Glucose metabolism in VS patients was decreased by 45 and 34% in left and right visual association cortex (P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.05, respectively) and 34 and 37% in left and right inferior parietal cortex (P less than 0.05) compared with controls; NVS patients had no significant metabolic alteration in these areas. Symptoms, physical examination, and metabolic imaging imply that these patients are a heterogenous but distinct clinical subgroup of DAT often with mild dementia who have visual symptoms due primarily to visual agnosia."}
{"id": "2788403", "title": "Slowly progressive aphasia followed by Alzheimer's dementia: a case report.", "content": "Slowly progressive aphasia followed by Alzheimer's dementia: a case report. Slowly progressive aphasia has been found in 8 published cases, 2 of whom progressed over a period of years to generalized dementia. Positron emission tomography demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism in the left perisylvian region in 2 cases. We describe a patient who had slowly progressive aphasia and developed generalized Alzheimer's dementia 7 years after presentation. There was no clinical or laboratory evidence of concomitant disease. Computerized tomography showed generalized atrophy more marked on the left perisylvian region late in the disease, when EEG showed generalized slowing more marked on the same area. Slowly progressive aphasia of old age should be considered a separate entity until further studies elucidate its relation to Alzheimer's dementia."}
{"id": "2787995", "title": "Positron emission tomographic study in Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomographic study in Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease. Positron Emission Tomography has been used to compare patients with Alzheimer's disease and 3 patients with biopsy-proved Pick's disease to age-matched volunteers. In Alzheimer's disease, there was a trend to a decrease of the metabolism parallel to the severity of the affection. The hypometabolism was predominant in the temporo-parieto-occipital and the middle temporal regions. In 2 cases of Pick's disease with a classical \"frontal syndrome\", there was an important fronto-temporal hypometabolism, very suggestive of the diagnosis owing to both its location and intensity. A third patient presented with a slowly progressive dysphasia. A left perisylvian hypometabolism was observed before any evident anatomical abnormality. The clinical symptoms evolved to a dementia and the hypometabolism extended to both frontal lobes."}
{"id": "2787220", "title": "[Multi-infarct dementia clinically simulating dementia of Alzheimer type. A comparison with angular gyrus syndrome].", "content": "[Multi-infarct dementia clinically simulating dementia of Alzheimer type. A comparison with angular gyrus syndrome]. A 74-year-old right-handed man with multiple cerebral infarction who presented with dementia simulating dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) is reported. He had been well until April 20, 1987 when he developed transient right hand palsy lasting overnight. Eleven days later, he became confused, disorientated, and amnestic. He was admitted to this hospital on June 8. Physical examination revealed hypertension (170/90mmHg). On neurological examination, his consciousness was clear but he was demented. He showed disorientation, amnesia, and urinary incontinence. His most prominent symptom was disturbance of speech, including fluent aphasia and alexia with agraphia. Additionally, he showed ideomotor apraxia, construction apraxia, right-left agnosia, finger agnosia, and acalculia. On July 9, he had a transient attack of right hemiplegia with confusion. The brain CT scan performed on admission was unremarkable except for cavum septi pellucidum and a small low density area in the right basal ganglia. However, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) by 123I-labeled N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine disclosed hypoperfusion of the cerebral blood flow in the border zones of the temporoparietal and frontal lobes on the left. A follow-up brain CT scan taken one month later demonstrated low density in the new areas corresponding to hypoperfusion shown by SPECT. Although the clinical features of the present case resembled those of DAT, dementia in this case was regarded as the result of multiple cerebral infarction since it occurred acutely with mild motor deficits, and brain CT scans and SPECT showed lesions indicating focal cerebral ischemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2786930", "title": "Regional dynamics of N-isopropyl-(123I)p-iodoamphetamine in human brain.", "content": "Regional dynamics of N-isopropyl-(123I)p-iodoamphetamine in human brain. Regional cerebral dynamics of N-isopropyl-(123I)p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) in the human brain were studied using a multi-detector single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanner in 35 subjects both normal and with a variety of neurological conditions. Distribution of IMP in the brain was also compared with regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) measured by positron emission tomography (PET) in 15 of these 35 cases. A significant regional difference in temporal changes of radioactivity was observed among normal brain structures. A rapid increase with early washout of the tracer was shown in the cerebellum and the occipital cortex, while the basal ganglia revealed a relatively slow increase and prolonged retention, indicating the regional difference in extraction and/or retention of IMP among the cerebral tissues. In cases with unilateral hypoperfusion, the percentage of the activity in the lesion to that in the contralateral normal cortex on the early SPECT was correlated well with that on CBF measured by PET (r = 0.870, p less than 0.001). However, the contrast on the SPECT image decreased with time after injection; 84.0 +/- 7.4% on the SPECT at 5-20 min scan, 87.6 +/- 7.6% at 35-50 min scan and 96.2 +/- 6.3% at 5 hr scan. In a case with a brain tumor having high blood flow documented by PET, increased accumulation of IMP was observed in the tumor on the early images obtained within 20 min followed by a rapid washout. These findings suggested altered extraction and/or retention of IMP in normal and diseased tissues, and these factors should be considered for the assessment of distribution and redistribution of IMP."}
{"id": "2785582", "title": "Reversal of brain metabolic abnormalities following treatment of AIDS dementia complex with 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT, zidovudine): a PET-FDG study.", "content": "Reversal of brain metabolic abnormalities following treatment of AIDS dementia complex with 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT, zidovudine): a PET-FDG study. Brain glucose metabolism was evaluated in four patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) dementia complex using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) scans at the beginning of therapy with 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT, zidovudine), and later in the course of therapy. In two patients, baseline, large focal cortical abnormalities of glucose utilization were reversed during the course of therapy. In the other two patients, the initial PET study did not reveal pronounced focal alterations, while the post-treatment scans showed markedly increased cortical glucose metabolism. The improved cortical glucose utilization was accompanied in all patients by immunologic and neurologic improvement. PET-FDG studies can detect cortical metabolic abnormalities associated with AIDS dementia complex, and may be used to monitor the metabolic improvement in response to AZT treatment."}
{"id": "2784988", "title": "Time course of effects of unilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert on glucose utilization by the cerebral cortex. Positron tomography in baboons.", "content": "Time course of effects of unilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert on glucose utilization by the cerebral cortex. Positron tomography in baboons. In order to investigate the effects of a partial cholinergic deafferentation on the functional activity of the cortex, the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRGlu) was measured with positron emission tomography and 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in 5 baboons (Papio anubis) both before and serially following stereotaxic electrocoagulation of the left nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM). Four days postlesion, significant metabolic depression was present in the entire ipsilateral cerebral cortex, most marked in the frontotemporal region, and which slowly recovered close to normal within 6-13 weeks. Postmortem studies showed that the lesions were located largely in the NbM, and that a significant decrease in choline-acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was present in the ipsilateral frontal, temporal and parietal cortices. The animal with the most limited histological lesion showed the least decrease in both ChAT activity and CMRGlu. There was a highly significant linear correlation between the regional cortical decreases in CMRGlu (early postlesion data) and in ChAT activity. These results indicate that cholinergic deafferentation induces a proportional metabolic depression in the cortex. However, compensatory mechanisms operate to restore the cortical metabolic activity gradually despite sustained cholinergic denervation, pointing to pre- and/or postsynaptic adaptation (plasticity). Moreover, unilateral NbM lesions also induced a significant reduction in contralateral CMRGlu, which also demonstrated recovery. Several mechanisms are discussed to explain this contralateral effect, but the most likely implicates a transcallosal depression of function as a result of ipsilateral effects of the NbM lesion. These metabolic effects of cholinergic deafferentation in the primate provide new insight into the mechanisms of cortical dysfunction, and the recovery thereof, following subcortical lesions. In addition, our findings have some relevance to the cortical consequences of cholinergic deafferentation observed in dementia of Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "2784550", "title": "Crossed cerebellar and uncrossed basal ganglia and thalamic diaschisis in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Crossed cerebellar and uncrossed basal ganglia and thalamic diaschisis in Alzheimer's disease. We detected crossed cerebellar as well as uncrossed basal ganglia and thalamic diaschisis in Alzheimer's disease by positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose. We studied a series of 26 consecutive, clinically diagnosed Alzheimer cases, including 6 proven by later autopsy, and compared them with 9 age-matched controls. We calculated asymmetry indices (AIs) of cerebral metabolic rate for matched left-right regions of interest (ROIs) and determined the extent of diaschisis by correlative analyses. For the Alzheimer group, we found cerebellar AIs correlated negatively, and thalamic AIs positively, with those of the cerebral hemisphere and frontal, temporal, parietal, and angular cortices, while basal ganglia AIs correlated positively with frontal cortical AIs. The only significant correlation of AIs for normal subjects was between the thalamus and cerebral hemisphere. These data indicate that PET is a sensitive technique for detecting diaschisis."}
{"id": "2783845", "title": "Predominant left hemisphere metabolic dysfunction in dementia.", "content": "Predominant left hemisphere metabolic dysfunction in dementia. Thirty-one patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and 11 patients with memory disorders, attributable to multiple cerebral infarctions, were studied using 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography scans. Asymmetry in cerebral glucose metabolism within these diagnostic groups was assessed by comparison with the metabolic rates obtained in age-equivalent healthy control subjects. A significantly greater number of individuals in both patient groups exhibited predominant left rather than right hemisphere hypometabolism. In addition, for patients with Alzheimer's disease, the degree of asymmetry was not related to either the severity or duration of dementia. These findings could be explained by greater susceptibility of the left hemisphere to degenerative or ischemic brain disease, by a specific sampling effect, or most likely, by greater metabolic deficits resulting from left rather than right hemisphere impairment."}
{"id": "2783735", "title": "Sturge-Weber syndrome: a study of cerebral glucose utilization with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Sturge-Weber syndrome: a study of cerebral glucose utilization with positron emission tomography. We measured local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (ICMRGIc) using positron emission tomography (PET) in six children with Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) and in six neurologically asymptomatic children with facial capillary hemangioma suggestive of SWS. Children with advanced SWS showed markedly depressed ICMRGIc in the anatomically affected cerebral hemisphere in a distribution that extended beyond the abnormalities depicted on computed tomography scan. In two infants with SWS and recent seizure onset, interictal PET revealed a paradoxical pattern of increased ICMRGIc in the cerebral cortex of the anatomically affected hemisphere. In one of these infants, ICMRGIc was also increased in the contralateral cerebellum, suggesting activation of the cortico-ponto-cerebellar circuitry. Subsequent PET (28 months later) in this child revealed the typical ICMRGIc pattern seen in advanced SWS. Further study of this transient ICMRGIc increase may be important in disclosing the pathogenesis of unilateral cerebral degeneration in SWS. In neurologically asymptomatic children with the facial stigmata of SWS and in children with early SWS, PET provides a sensitive measure of the extent and degree of cerebral metabolic impairment. Serial PET studies in children with SWS can be used to assess disease progression and, together with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, may be useful in the selection of suitable candidates for cerebral hemispherectomy or focal cortical resection."}
{"id": "2774504", "title": "Altered glucose metabolism in microvessels from patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Altered glucose metabolism in microvessels from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Microvessels isolated from temporal cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease showed decreased uptake of glucose when compared with vessels from age-matched or young control subjects. This was due to decreased hexokinase activity in the Alzheimer samples, as determined by ion exchange chromatography. This finding was confirmed independently by determination of the phosphorylation constant for hexokinase, K3, using positron emission tomography. The results suggest that Alzheimer's disease may result from a global defect in brain energy metabolism."}
{"id": "2742550", "title": "Memory following intracarotid amobarbital injection contralateral to hippocampal damage.", "content": "Memory following intracarotid amobarbital injection contralateral to hippocampal damage. We examined the relationship between memory performance and hippocampal damage in temporal lobe epileptics undergoing the intracarotid amobarbital sodium procedure (IAP). Overall memory performance in the course of IAP was correlated with seizure lateralization. The hemisphere of seizure focus had impaired IAP memory in 63% (19/30) of the patients. The IAP memory performance following perfusion of the hemisphere contralateral to severe hippocampal lesions was impaired in five of six patients. These patients also exhibited hypometabolism of the impaired temporal lobe as determined independently by positron emission tomography. The single patient with a severely damaged hippocampus who did not demonstrate IAP memory impairment with contralateral hemisphere injection did not exhibit perfusion of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery with amobarbital. Memory performance following intracarotid amobarbital injection contralateral to a less severely damaged hippocampus was impaired in 14 of 24 patients and was not related to extent of hippocampal damage, temporal lobe hypometabolism of labeled glucose, perfusion of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery, hemispheric language dominance, or order of injection. These results indicate that impaired memory performance during IAP may reflect severe hippocampal damage and/or epileptogenic abnormality."}
{"id": "2674513", "title": "Positron emission tomography findings in dementia disorders: contributions to differential diagnosis and objectivizing of therapeutic effects.", "content": "Positron emission tomography findings in dementia disorders: contributions to differential diagnosis and objectivizing of therapeutic effects. At present, positron emission tomography (PET) is the only technology affording the quantitative three-dimensional imaging of various aspects of brain function. Since glucose is the dominant substrate of the brain's energy metabolism, studies of glucose metabolism by PET of 2(18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) are widely applied for investigating the participation of various brain systems in simple or complex stimulations and tasks. In focal or diffuse disorders of the brain, functional impairment of affected or inactivated brain regions is a reproducible finding. While glucose metabolism is decreased slightly with age in a regionally different degree, in most types of dementia severe changes of glucose metabolism are observed. Degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type is characterized by a metabolic disturbance most prominent in the parietooccipito-temporal association cortex and later in the frontal lobe, while primary cortical areas, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum are not affected. By this typical pattern Alzheimer disease can be differentiated from other dementia syndromes, as e.g. Pick's disease (with the metabolic depression most prominent in the frontal and temporal lobe), multi infarct dementia (with multiple focal metabolic defects), and Huntington's chorea (with metabolic disturbance in the neostriatum). In demented patients PET studies can also be applied to the quantification of treatment effects on disturbed metabolism. Such studies demonstrated an equalization of metabolic heterogeneities in patients responding to muscarinergic cholinagonists and diffuse increase of metabolism during treatment with piracetam. The therapeutic relevance of such metabolic effects, however, must be proved in controlled clinical trials."}
{"id": "2647282", "title": "Positron emission tomography of the brain.", "content": "Positron emission tomography of the brain. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a technique of transverse tomographic imaging in which detection of two photons emitted from the annihilation of a positron and an electron is used to reconstruct the distribution of a positron emitting isotope within an object. PET provides the capacity to quantitatively measure the local tissue distribution of a variety of radionuclides that are attached to compounds that distribute according to function. Although this technique has been used to measure multiple functions and receptors within the brain, one of the most widespread uses is the measurement of local cerebral glucose metabolism based on the deoxyglucose method. In this article, the application of PET to clinical disorders such as dementia, brain tumors, psychiatric disease, epilepsy, movement disorders, and stroke as well as to normal states such as aging are examined."}
{"id": "2641456", "title": "Cerebral blood flow, oxygen and glucose metabolism with PET in progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow, oxygen and glucose metabolism with PET in progressive supranuclear palsy. Cerebral blood flow, cerebral oxygen metabolic rate and cerebral glucose metabolic rate were measured with positron emission tomography (PET) in four patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Decreased blood flow and hypometabolism of oxygen and glucose were found in both subcortical and cortical regions, particularly in the striatum including the head of the caudate nucleus and the frontal cortex. The coupling between blood flow and metabolism was preserved even in the regions which showed decreased blood flow and hypometabolism. These findings indicated the hypofunction, as revealed by decreased blood flow and hypometabolism on PET, both in the striatum and the frontal cortex, and which may underlie the pathophysiological mechanism of motor and mental disturbance in PSP."}
{"id": "2612100", "title": "[Clinical and etiological study of crossed cerebellar diaschisis. Report of two cases].", "content": "[Clinical and etiological study of crossed cerebellar diaschisis. Report of two cases]. With the great progress in the imaging technique of cerebro-cerebellar perfusion and metabolism, it has been revealed that supratentorial cerebrovascular disorders often cause some reduction of contralateral cerebellar blood flow and metabolism. The phenomenon, termed crossed cerebellar diaschisis (CCD), is interpreted to be brought about by transneuronal deactivation of cerebellum via the corticopontocerebellar pathway and usually not to accompanied by limb-incoordination. We have experienced 2 cases presenting ataxia clinically and CCD in positron emission tomography (PET) which are thought to be caused by the interruption of two distinctive neural pathways, the corticopontocerebellar and cerebellorubrothalamic pathways. Case 1 was a 34-year-old housewife with cerebral infarction which magnetic resonance imaging disclosed in the left parietal cortex and subcortical white matter. She showed mild right-sided hemiataxia featured by dysarthria, hypermetria, dysrhythmia, decomposition, dysdiadochokinesis and rebound phenomenon. Cheirooral syndrome, a hand-pronation sign and defects of combined sensation were present on the right but not accompanied by any disturbances of deep sensation. PET with 15O-labeled CO2 and O2 demonstrated the left frontoparietooccipital and contralateral cerebellar hypoperfusion and hypometabolism. Case 2 was a 69-year-old female suffering from aftereffects of old thalamic hemorrhage. Neurological examination revealed moderate degree of right-sided hemiataxia suggesting a cerebellar type of dysfunction like in case 1. Muscle power and sensory system were well-preserved. Brain CT revealed a small and restricted low density area in the left posterolateral thalamus indicating destruction of the Vim nucleus. PET study confirmed reduced blood flow and oxygen metabolism in the left thalamus and contralateral cerebellar hemisphere.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2601096", "title": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia (PET-FDG study)].", "content": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in dementia (PET-FDG study)]. Positron emission tomography (PET) with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was employed to assess regional cerebral glucose metabolism which is tightly coupled to neuronal activity in the brain. In Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia, hypometabolism of glucose was found in frontal, temporal, and parietal association cortices. Focal hypometabolism in association cortices was observed in depression, epilepsy, ALS and other neurological diseases without any symptoms of mental deterioration. These results might indicate that not focal but global decrease of neuronal activity in the association cortex induces demented state."}
{"id": "2601095", "title": "[F-18 FDG PET in dementia].", "content": "[F-18 FDG PET in dementia]. Glucose metabolism was measured by F-18 FDG PET in 33 patients with dementia. In patients with DAT, rCMRgl showed marked decrease in the associated areas in the temporo-parietal lobes, and it was relatively preserved in the primary cortices such as sensory, motor and visual areas. Frontal lobes were also involved in patients with advanced disease. In Pick disease, the frontal lobes were severely impaired. Multi-infarct dementia, Parkinson dementia and supranuclear palsy showed diffuse or multiple involvement throughout the entire brain. Correlation with rCMRgl and clinical severity was found in DAT patients. In conclusion, F-18 FDG PET is clinically useful in the differential diagnosis and grading of dementias."}
{"id": "2563716", "title": "[Alzheimer's disease. Review of the current status of research].", "content": "[Alzheimer's disease. Review of the current status of research]. The enormous social problems and costs caused by patients suffering from dementia induce growing public interest and become a great challenge of medical science. This report attempts to give a review of recent investigations in neuropathology, genetics, neurotransmitter research, epidemiology, diagnostics and therapy of Alzheimer's dementia, the most common type of dementia. A lot of recent molecular genetic experiments and many neuropathological analogies of Alzheimer's dementia and Down's syndrome indicate a damage on the chromosome 21 as possible cause of Alzheimer's dementia. The neuropathological changes are not limited to the grey matter and cholinergic system, but the white matter and some neurotransmitter systems (noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and somatostatin) are affected too. Therapeutical trials to compensate these transmitter deficits show no or only poor clinical benefit. Metabolic studies show disturbances in glucose metabolism of Alzheimer brains suggesting an intraneural energy deficit may be the main damage in Alzheimer's dementia. In spite of extensive technical and psychopathometrical diagnostical attempts Alzheimer's dementia remains to be difficult to diagnose precisely clinically. Best information is given by PET."}
{"id": "2538276", "title": "Determination of cerebral blood flow by SPECT: a valuable tool in the investigation of dementia?", "content": "Determination of cerebral blood flow by SPECT: a valuable tool in the investigation of dementia? Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have demonstrated distinctive abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD), multi-infarct-dementia (MID) and Pick's disease. Since PET is a complicated and expensive technique, its clinical application will be limited in the near future. An important finding in these PET studies is persistent coupling of brain metabolism and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Therefore it should be possible to demonstrate bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism as seen in patients with clinically diagnosed AD indirectly by measuring cerebral blood flow by Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT). We report our first experiences with SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with four case histories. We demonstrated temporoparietal hypoperfusion in AD and frontal hypoperfusion in Pick's disease as shown previously by PET. We could not demonstrate a typical SPECT in MID. The main purpose of SPECT in MID could be exclusion of coexisting AD. Based on current knowledge the possibilities and the limitation of this new technique are discussed. It is concluded that rCBF-SPECT may be of value in the diagnosis of AD and Pick's disease. Before this method can be used in daily clinical routine, its diagnostic value should be established according to principles of clinical decision making."}
{"id": "2532511", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism differs in adult and rigid juvenile forms of Huntington disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism differs in adult and rigid juvenile forms of Huntington disease. A 7-year-old girl with the juvenile form of Huntington disease is described. She had personality changes, speech and gait disturbances, diffuse rigidity, dementia, and a well-documented family history of Huntington disease. Electroencephalography revealed bilateral epileptic foci; however, she had no seizures. Positron emission tomography using [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose with an improved method for quantification of glucose metabolism in anatomically defined regions of interest demonstrated marked hypometabolism in the caudate nuclei and putamen, as is observed in adults with the disease. Glucose metabolism was also reduced in the posterior nuclei of the thalamus. Adults with Huntington disease have consistently demonstrated normal or increased rates of thalamic glucose metabolism. The findings suggest that brain metabolic alterations of Huntington disease in children differ from those in adults which is consistent with the postmortem pathologic differences previously recognized."}
{"id": "3390157", "title": "Biochemical measurements in Alzheimer's disease reveal a necessity for improved neuroimaging techniques to study metabolism.", "content": "Biochemical measurements in Alzheimer's disease reveal a necessity for improved neuroimaging techniques to study metabolism. A series of Alzheimer's disease and control brains were dissected to determine the extent of atrophy (based on total protein content) and loss of choline acetyltransferase activity in the cerebral cortex from the entire surface of the diseased brains. The distribution of intensity of pathology so determined is strikingly similar to the degree of hypometabolism as shown by positron emission tomography. It is argued that the hypometabolism can be explained (at least in part) by focal areas of atrophy."}
{"id": "3265862", "title": "Cerebral hypometabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy studied with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Cerebral hypometabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy studied with positron emission tomography. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is characterized by supranuclear palsy of gaze, axial dystonia, bradykinesia, rigidity, and a progressive dementia. Pathological changes in this disorder are generally restricted to subcortical structures, yet the type and range of cognitive deficits suggest the involvement of many cerebral regions. We examined the extent of functional impairment to cerebral cortical and subcortical structures as measured by the level of glucose metabolic activity at rest. Fourteen patients with PSP were compared to 21 normal volunteers of similar age using 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography. Glucose metabolism was reduced in the caudate nucleus, putamen, thalamus, pons, and cerebral cortex, but not in the cerebellum in the patients with PSP as compared to the normal subjects. Analysis of individual brain regions revealed significant declines in cerebral glucose utilization in most regions throughout the cerebral cortex, particularly those in the superior half of the frontal lobe. Declines in the most affected regions of cerebral cortex were greater than those in any single subcortical structure. Although using conventional neuropathological techniques the cerebral cortex appears to be unaffected in PSP, significant and pervasive functional impairments in both cortical and subcortical structures are present. These observations help to account for the constellation of cognitive symptoms in individual patients with PSP and the difficulty encountered in identifying a characteristic psychometric profile for this group of patients."}
{"id": "3264173", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with Parkinson's disease].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with Parkinson's disease]. The distribution of cerebral blood flow and metabolism is related to neuronal activity. Cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), and oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) in ten patients with Parkinson's disease and five age-matched normal control subjects were measured with positron emission tomography (PET) using 15O2, C15O2 steady state inhalational technique to investigate functional changes of the cortex and the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease. All patients had no history of cerebrovascular disease and CT scan showed no abnormal findings except for moderate cerebral atrophy in only one patient. When the level of clinical disability was related on the scale of Hoehn and Yahr, one patient was stage I, four were stage II, four were stage III, and one was stage IV. Psychic symptoms which include hallucination, depression, and dementia were recognized in four patients. One of these four patients was mildly demented. Four patients were newly diagnosed and had never been treated with antiparkinsonian medication before. Before the patients had their PET study their antiparkinsonian medication was discontinued for more than three days. But in two patients PET study was performed without discontinuity of antiparkinsonian medication. The values for regional CBF and regional CMRO2 were lower in the patients than in the normal control subjects, especially in the frontal cortex there was a significant decrease of CBF and CMRO2. There was no discrepancy between CBF and CMRO2 both in the patients and the normal control. CBF and CMRO2 in the cortex and the basal ganglia were not correlated with the severity of tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3261571", "title": "The metabolic anatomy of paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration.", "content": "The metabolic anatomy of paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Eleven patients with acquired cerebellar degeneration (10 of whom had paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration [PCD]) were evaluated using neuropsychological tests and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose/positron emission tomography to (1) quantify motor, cognitive, and metabolic abnormalities; (2) determine if characteristic alterations in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlc) are associated with PCD; and (3) correlate behavioral and metabolic measures of disease severity. Eighteen volunteer subjects served as normal controls. Although some PCD neuropsychological test scores were abnormal, these results could not, in general, be dissociated from the effects of dysarthria and ataxia. rCMRGlc was reduced in patients with PCD (versus normal control subjects) in all regions except the brainstem. Analysis of patient and control rCMRGlc data using a mathematical model of regional metabolic interactions revealed two metabolic pattern descriptors, SSF1 and SSF2, which distinguished patients with PCD from normal control subjects; SSF2, which described a metabolic coupling between cerebellum, cuneus, and posterior temporal, lateral frontal, and paracentral cortex, correlated with quantitative indices of cerebellar dysfunction. Our inability to document substantial intellectual impairment in 7 of 10 patients with PCD contrasts with the 50% incidence of dementia in PCD reported by previous investigators. Widespread reductions in PCD rCMRGlc may result from the loss of cerebellar efferents to thalamus and forebrain structures, a \"reverse cerebellar diaschisis.\""}
{"id": "3260597", "title": "Effect of piracetam on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Effect of piracetam on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured by positron emission tomography. The effect of piracetam (a putative enhancer of cerebral metabolism) on regional CMRGlu was studied by positron emission tomography of 2[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in nine patients with Alzheimer's disease, and in seven cases with multiinfarct dementia or unclassified dementia. In Alzheimer's disease, i.v. administration of piracetam, 6 g b.i.d. for 2 weeks, significantly improved rCMRGlu in most cortical areas, whereas no effect on CMRGlu of the drug was observed in the multiinfarct dementia/unclassified dementia groups. These results lend further support to the notion that adjuvant piracetam treatment is of benefit in Alzheimer's disease. They may also indicate that the typical metabolic depression in Alzheimer's disease is caused by complex interaction of disturbed transmitter and cellular function rather than by a specific deficit in the cholinergic system alone."}
{"id": "3260505", "title": "Altered patterns of positron-emission tomography glucose metabolism in Alzheimer patients with microvascular white matter disease.", "content": "Altered patterns of positron-emission tomography glucose metabolism in Alzheimer patients with microvascular white matter disease."}
{"id": "3259926", "title": "Biochemical aspects of Parkinson-dementia complex.", "content": "Biochemical aspects of Parkinson-dementia complex. Positron emission tomography of a parkinsonian patient with dementia revealed a decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) in the cerebral cortex and deep gray matter, whereas a parkinsonian patient without dementia showed a decrease in CBF and CMRO2 in the deep gray matter, but not in the cerebral cortex. The ratio of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/L-dopa in the plasma after L-dopa administration was significantly increased in parkinsonian patients with hallucinations, indicating an accelerated metabolism of L-dopa. The concentration of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA) was decreased in the cerebrospinal fluid of parkinsonian patients with psychiatric symptoms, especially with visual hallucinations. The serotonin level in mouse striatum was significantly reduced 1 week after methylphenyltetrahydropyridine (MPTP) injection, though returned to normal in 4 weeks. The 5HIAA level increased at both 1 and 4 weeks. The activity of tryptophan hydroxylase was increased in the striatum 1-4 weeks after MPTP injection, but was unchanged in the cerebral cortex. The choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was significantly decreased in the hippocampus 1 week, but not 4 weeks after MPTP. The ChAT activity was not changed in the frontal cortex at either 1 or 4 weeks."}
{"id": "3259296", "title": "Longitudinal studies of regional cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Longitudinal studies of regional cerebral metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Measurement of cerebral glucose metabolism in six patients with Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography demonstrated that hypometabolism remained relatively more severe in parietal cortex than in frontal cortex over time. Lateral metabolic asymmetries were preserved in less severely involved brain regions, but were less stable in parietal cortex."}
{"id": "3259243", "title": "Elevated cerebellar glucose metabolism in microvascular white matter disease: normal aging and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Elevated cerebellar glucose metabolism in microvascular white matter disease: normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. Young normal, elderly, and clinically diagnosed Alzheimer disease subjects who had undergone positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) examinations were studied to determine the effect of periventricular white matter lesions on cerebellar glucose metabolic rates. PET-determined cerebellar metabolic rates were elevated in subjects with periventricular white matter lesions. These results suggest the cautious use of cortical-to-cerebellar ratios in future PET or single-photon-emission CT (SPECT) studies."}
{"id": "3194063", "title": "Heterogeneous anterior-posterior metabolic patterns in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Heterogeneous anterior-posterior metabolic patterns in dementia of the Alzheimer type. The parietal-frontal distribution of reductions of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) was studied in 32 patients with mild to severe dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), using positron emission tomography and fluorodeoxyglucose, and was related to patterns of neuropsychological impairment. In moderate and severe DAT patients, one frontal association region, the premotor cortex, demonstrated significant metabolic reductions equivalent to reductions in the parietal association cortex, and the ratio of parietal to premotor rCMRglc had significantly greater variance than in controls. In moderately demented patients, parietal-premotor and parietal-prefrontal metabolic ratios correlated significantly with neuropsychological impairments. Disproportionate parietal hypometabolism was associated with more impairment of verbal comprehension, calculations, visuospatial construction, and immediate visuospatial memory span. Disproportionate frontal hypometabolism was associated with more impaired verbal fluency and attention. Longitudinal follow-up of 20 of the patients showed that parietal/frontal metabolic ratios and their correlated neuropsychological patterns were stable over time, as dementia severity worsened. These results indicate that in moderate to severe DAT patients, metabolic reductions in the premotor cortex are as severe as the reductions in the parietal association cortex. Moreover, the parietal-premotor distribution of metabolic reductions is variable and related to variable patterns of cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "3076510", "title": "Alzheimer's disease. A critical review.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease. A critical review. Clinical and neuropathological findings in a 51-year-old woman by Alois Alzheimer (1) led to a description of the disorder which Kraepelin (2) named Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this progressive dementia disorder the senile plaques and fibrillary tangles found at brain autopsy are the diagnostic hallmarks. As the same type of neuropathological changes are found in dementias of senile age, these disorders are named senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT). The two forms are often combined into one group, the Alzheimer dementias, (AD/SDAT) and, according to the DSM-III, classified as primary degenerative disorders (PDD). However, it must be emphasized that there is no scientific basis for sampling the two forms, the diagnoses of both AD and SDAT are exclusive. Several hypotheses are being proposed as to the etiology of AD/SDAT. Genetic factors, aluminium or other toxic factors, immunological disturbances, disturbed glucose metabolism, deficiency of essential nutrients, and stress, are some of the lines followed when seeking the etiology. The pathogenesis of the disorder involves not only structural changes but also neurochemical disturbances and neuroendocrine dysfunction, findings which are related to the behavioural disturbances seen in the disease. At present there are no reliable biological markers for AD/SDAT. Clinical investigations together with laboratory data and brain imaging support the assumption of several sub-groups within the Alzheimer type dementias. The neurochemical findings made in AD/SDAT have constituted the basis for formulating pharmacological treatment strategies. Drugs affecting the cholinergic and monoaminergic systems have been used, as well as neuropeptides and similar drugs. Gangliosides and phosphatidylserine have also been tested in clinical trials. Hitherto, this treatment has not been as successful as expected. Cholinergic drugs have given a marginal effect on memory functions. Emotional disturbances and disturbed motor performance have to some extent been influenced by the use of selective 5-hydroxytryptamine reuptake blockers and L-dopa. Whether this treatment is of clinical importance must be further investigated. Interesting neuropathological and neurochemical research is being conducted on AD/SDAT. However, clinical research aiming at delimiting homogeneous subgroups of dementia has not kept in step with neurobiological research. More effort must be put into clinical research if therapeutic progress is to be achieved."}
{"id": "2977283", "title": "Huntington disease: finding the gene and after.", "content": "Huntington disease: finding the gene and after. Huntington disease is an autosomal dominant disorder that usually begins in mid-life and is characterized by progressive choreiform movements and dementia. Approximately 5% of patients develop symptoms prior to 14 years of age. In most juvenile cases, the gene is transmitted from the father. In children the clinical course is marked by mental deterioration or behavioral abnormalities, gait disturbances usually the consequence of rigidity, cerebellar signs, and seizures. The pathologic findings are highlighted by atrophy of the caudate. Atrophy also is observed on brain imaging, while positron emission tomography demonstrates marked caudate hypometabolism which antedates the appearance of the clinical disease. Cell death in the striatum primarily affects medium and small GABA-containing neurons, representing the striatal output projections. Somatostatin-containing neurons and cholinergic neurons are spared. The gene for Huntington disease has been localized in close proximity to the tip of the short arm of chromosome 4. The gene product and the manner by which it induces selective cell death is still unknown but should become evident in the near future."}
{"id": "2969203", "title": "NIH conference. Alzheimer disease: clinical and biological heterogeneity.", "content": "NIH conference. Alzheimer disease: clinical and biological heterogeneity. The clinical and biological features of Alzheimer disease are not uniform in their expression; heterogeneity is evident in the disease's clinical, anatomic, and physiologic characteristics. The presence of considerable intersubject and intrasubject heterogeneity suggests that subtypes of the disease exist. We define subtypes of Alzheimer disease in regard to the behavioral features (for example, predominant right or left hemisphere, or symmetrical impairment), inheritance (familial or sporadic), dosage of chromosome 21 (presence of the Down syndrome), time course of progression, age of onset (presenile or senile), and presence or absence of motor deficit (myoclonus or signs of an extrapyramidal syndrome). Studies of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography and [18-fluorine] fluorodeoxyglucose show focal alterations in glucose use, with cerebral metabolic asymmetries in patients with Alzheimer disease that are related to the nature of the cognitive deficit. Serial roentgenographic computed tomographic studies show heterogeneous rates of lateral ventricle enlargement in the disease that are related to rates of cognitive decline. Similar anatomic and physiologic abnormalities are also found in persons 45 years of age or older who have the Down syndrome. Furthermore, patients with Alzheimer disease who have extrapyramidal dysfunction or myoclonus are a distinct subgroup, with specific abnormalities of central monoamine markers of dopamine metabolism, serotonin metabolism, and the hydroxylation cofactor, biopterin. The concept of subtypes in Alzheimer disease serves as a model with which the interactions of genetic influences with environmental factors can be examined."}
{"id": "2967038", "title": "Brain glucose utilization in childhood Huntington's disease studied with positron emission tomography (PET).", "content": "Brain glucose utilization in childhood Huntington's disease studied with positron emission tomography (PET). Brain glucose metabolism was measured in two children with early-onset Huntington's disease, using positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as the tracer. A marked (48%) hypometabolism was found at the level of the caudate nuclei, but other areas of the brain, particularly the cerebral cortex, were not significantly affected. Despite its different clinical presentation, Huntington's disease in children is characterized by brain metabolic alterations similar to those found in adult patients."}
{"id": "2966900", "title": "Dementia in Down's syndrome: cerebral glucose utilization, neuropsychological assessment, and neuropathology.", "content": "Dementia in Down's syndrome: cerebral glucose utilization, neuropsychological assessment, and neuropathology. We measured the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in a 47-year-old man with trisomy 21 Down's syndrome (DS) and autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer's disease. Dementia was evident from a confirmed history of cognitive decline, memory loss, and personality change. CMRglc in the subject was compared with the mean obtained in 13 healthy younger DS subjects, aged 19 to 33 years. Test scores of general intelligence, visuospatial ability, language, and memory function showed poorer performance in the older subject compared with the younger group. Mean hemispheric CMRglc in the older DS subject was 28% less than in the young DS group, and marked hypometabolism was evident in parietal and temporal lobe association cortices. At autopsy, extensive neuropathology was noted, especially in the parietal and temporal cortical regions, more so than reported in DS subjects without documented dementia. This study is the first complete assessment of cerebral metabolism, neuropsychological competence, and neuropathology in a DS subject with a documented course of dementia, and demonstrates the superimposition of Alzheimer type dementia on previous mental retardation."}
{"id": "2844523", "title": "Antiepileptic drugs and cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Antiepileptic drugs and cerebral glucose metabolism. Using PET with [18-F]-2-deoxyglucose (FDG), we studied the effects of antiepileptic drugs on cerebral glucose metabolism. Serial scans were performed before and after the test drug was added to or removed from the patient's regimen. At least 3 weeks elapsed after achieving steady-state plasma levels when drugs were added, or after plasma levels were undetectable when drugs were tapered, before repeat scans were obtained. Only a single drug was changed between scans. In the phenobarbital (PB) study, the \"on-drug\" scan was performed first in each case. In this instance, a mean of 14 weeks elapsed between the time blood levels were undetectable and repeat scanning in order to avoid the possibility of withdrawal effects. Scanning in each group was performed 30 min after injection of 5 mCi of FDG, with EEG monitoring to exclude ictal activity. Regional glucose metabolic rates were calculated in 8 to 20 regions of interest. PB reduced LCMRglu in seven of eight regions studied, with a mean reduction over all regions of 37 +/- 3%. Phenytoin (PHT) reduced LCMRglu in only two of 10 regions (mean = 13%). We studied the effect of PHT on cerebellar metabolism in 42 patients using unpaired scans. Cerebellar LCMRglu was lower when patients were taking PHT at the time of scan, as well as in those who were taking PHT for 5 years or more, but the differences were not significant. There was a weak inverse correlation between PHT serum level and cerebellar LCMRglu in patients taking the drug at the time of scan (r = -0.36; 0.05 less than p less than 0.1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3690290", "title": "Reversal of scopolamine-induced amnesia and alterations in energy metabolism by the nootropic piracetam: implications regarding identification of brain structures involved in consolidation of memory traces.", "content": "Reversal of scopolamine-induced amnesia and alterations in energy metabolism by the nootropic piracetam: implications regarding identification of brain structures involved in consolidation of memory traces. Pretreatment with scopolamine, 3 mg/kg, prevented the acquisition of a passive avoidance task in rats. These amnesic effects of scopolamine could largely be overcome by treatment with 100 mg/kg of the nootropic drug piracetam. In order to identify the brain structures involved, the effects of these drugs on regional energy metabolism were measured throughout the brain, utilizing Sokoloff's 2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic procedures. Scopolamine, 3 mg/kg, reduced glucose utilization in several areas of the cerebral cortex. These effects were largest in the parietal and temporal cortices. Other areas affected included the sensorimotor and cingulate cortices, the ventral and lateral thalamus, and the dendritic neuropil of the CA1, CA2, and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. The regional depressions in glucose metabolism observed following scopolamine treatment in the rat had some resemblance to depressions in glucose metabolism reported for Alzheimer's disease patients in positron emission tomography studies. Piracetam, 100 mg/kg, did not alter the energy metabolism of any of the 41 brain regions examined. However, this dose of piracetam completely reversed the scopolamine-induced depressions in the hippocampus. Piracetam partially but significantly reversed the scopolamine effects in the cingulate cortex. It is concluded that the data provide support for the hippocampal-cholinergic theory of memory as originally formulated by Meyers and Domino in 1964 and give insight into the mechanisms by which nootropics work."}
{"id": "3625988", "title": "Senile dementia of the Binswanger type. A vascular form of dementia in the elderly.", "content": "Senile dementia of the Binswanger type. A vascular form of dementia in the elderly. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly have demonstrated the common occurrence of deep white-matter lesions in the aging brain. These radiologic lesions (leukoaraiosis) may represent an early marker of dementia. At autopsy, an ischemic periventricular leukoencephalopathy (Binswanger's disease) has been found in most cases. The clinical spectrum of Binswanger's disease appears to range from asymptomatic radiologic lesions to dementia with focal deficits, frontal signs, pseudobulbar palsy, gait difficulties, and urinary incontinence. The name senile dementia of the Binswanger type (SDBT) is proposed for this poorly recognized, vascular form of subcortical dementia. The SDBT probably results from cortical disconnection most likely caused by hypoperfusion. In contrast, multi-infarct dementia is correlated with multiple large and small strokes that cause a loss of over 50 to 100 mL of brain volume. The periventricular white matter is a watershed area irrigated by long, penetrating medullary arteries. Risk factors for SDBT are small-artery diseases, such as hypertension and amyloid angiopathy, impaired autoregulation of cerebral blood flow in the elderly, and periventricular hypoperfusion due to cardiac failure, arrhythmias, and hypotension. The SDBT may be a potentially preventable and treatable form of dementia."}
{"id": "3502249", "title": "[Cerebral 11C-glucose metabolism during human sleep].", "content": "[Cerebral 11C-glucose metabolism during human sleep]. Some reports have suggested that there is no difference in cerebral metabolic rates between wakefulness and sleep. However recently Kennedy et al. and Heiss et al. reported a decrease in cerebral glucose utilization during NREM sleep measured by the using deoxyglucose method. We used a 11C-glucose method for positron emission tomography (PET) while estimating cerebral glucose metabolism during human sleep with polysomnography (PSG). This PET and PSG study was carried out on 11 healthy male volunteers ranging in age from 18 to 26 years. In order to facilitate the onset of sleep, the subjects were deprived of sleep, under observation in the lab, for a period of approximately 20 hours prior to the PSG and PET examination. All experiments were performed in the early morning, most often between 4 and 10 AM. The subjects' sleep was monitored by PSG, i.e. electroencephalogram, electrooculogram and a submental electroencephalogram, electrooculogram and a submental electromyogram. The 11C-glucose used in the experiment was prepared by the biosynthetic method developed by Lifton and Welch, using 11C produced by a baby cyclotron. The 11C-glucose solution, containing about 20 mCi of 11C activity was administered orally to the subjects. The time course of the 11C activity in the blood following the administration was determined by drawing 1 ml of blood from the antecubital vein once every 10 minutes. These samples were assayed for 11C activity in a NaI well counter. The PET images of a horizontal cross-section of the brain at 45 mm above the orbito-meatal line, were used for the analysis of the glucose metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3501695", "title": "The metabolic pathology of the AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "The metabolic pathology of the AIDS dementia complex. A progressive dementing illness, the AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is the most frequent neurological complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Characteristic alterations in regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlc), associated with the presence or progression of ADC, were demonstrated by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose/positron emission tomography in 9 of 12 patients with ADC compared with 18 normal volunteer subjects. In these 9 patients, two distinct patterns of regional metabolic activity were highly correlated with intersubject gray matter rCMRGlc variation and with disease severity as assessed by neuropsychological testing. Relative subcortical (thalamus and basal ganglia) hypermetabolism was characteristic of early ADC, and disease progression was accompanied by cortical and subcortical gray matter hypometabolism."}
{"id": "3501694", "title": "Differences in cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization in vegetative versus locked-in patients.", "content": "Differences in cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization in vegetative versus locked-in patients. Positron emission tomographic studies of regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRGlc) and cerebral blood flow were performed in 7 vegetative and 3 locked-in patients to determine objectively the level of brain function underlying these clinical states. Cortical gray rCMRGlc in the vegetative patients was 2.73 +/- 0.13 (mean +/- SEM) mg/100 gm/min, less than half the normal value of 6.82 +/- 0.23 (p less than 0.001). Cerebral blood flow exhibited similar but more variable reductions. By contrast, cortical rCMRGlc in the locked-in patients was 5.08 +/- 0.69, a 25% reduction (p less than 0.02) from normal. The massive reduction in vegetative rCMRGlc involved not only the cerebral cortex but also the basal nuclei and cerebellum. Such metabolic hypoactivity has precedent only in deep anesthesia and supports clinical evidence that cerebral cognitive function is lost in the vegetative state, leaving a body that can no longer think or experience pain."}
{"id": "3500958", "title": "Cortical hypometabolism and its recovery following nucleus basalis lesions in baboons: a PET study.", "content": "Cortical hypometabolism and its recovery following nucleus basalis lesions in baboons: a PET study. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was measured serially with positron emission tomography and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in five baboons with stereotactic electrocoagulation of the left nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM). Four days after lesion, a significant metabolic depression was present in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex, most marked in the frontotemporal region, and which recovered progressively within 6-13 weeks. These data demonstrate that adaptive mechanisms efficiently compensate for the cortical metabolic effects of NbM-lesion-induced cholinergic deafferentation. Moreover, unilateral NbM lesions also induced a transient reduction in contralateral cortical metabolic rate, the mechanisms of which are discussed. Explanation of these effects of cholinergic deafferentation in the primate could further our understanding of the metabolic deficits observed in dementia of the Alzheimer's type."}
{"id": "3498733", "title": "Scaled subprofile model: a statistical approach to the analysis of functional patterns in positron emission tomographic data.", "content": "Scaled subprofile model: a statistical approach to the analysis of functional patterns in positron emission tomographic data. The data obtained from measurements of regional rCMRglu using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)/positron emission tomographic (PET) data contain more structure than can be identified with group mean rCMRglu profiles or regional correlation coefficients. This additional structure is revealed by a novel mathematical-statistical model of regional metabolic interactions that explicitly represents rCMRglu profiles as a combination of region-independent global effects, a group mean pattern and a mosaic of interacting networks. In its application to FDG/PET data, this model removes global subject effects [global scaling factors (GSFs)] and a group mean pattern (profile) so as to maximize statistical power for the detection and simultaneous discovery of all networks of two or more regions that form a significant and consistent linearly covarying pattern. The model approach presented here was applied to the combined rCMRglu data from 12 demented AIDS patients and 18 normal controls: Two significant metabolic covariance pattern descriptors that together accounted for 71 to 96% of the rCMRglu/GSF variation across subjects for 22/28 regions in the AIDS group were extracted. Each descriptor was found to be highly correlated with performance on several neuropsychological tests, providing independent validation of the analysis technique as a means of discovering and describing behaviorally related components of group rCMRglu profiles."}
{"id": "3498701", "title": "Topographical analysis of glucose metabolism, as measured with positron emission tomography, in dementia of the Alzheimer type: use of linear histograms.", "content": "Topographical analysis of glucose metabolism, as measured with positron emission tomography, in dementia of the Alzheimer type: use of linear histograms. A linear histogram method was employed to analyze brain images of glucose uptake obtained by positron emission tomography in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type and in control subjects. A line was drawn by computer which traversed the image of a brain slice taken at 70 mm above and parallel to the inferior orbitomeatal line, and rCMRglc was plotted as a function of distance along this line in 3 brain areas: frontal, sensorimotor and parietal. Peak rCMRglc values were significantly decreased in moderately-to-severely demented patients relative to healthy age-matched controls, but not in mildly demented patients. Furthermore, both the mildly and the more severely demented patients differed from controls in having reduced ratios of parietal association to sensorimotor peak rCMRglc. The variances of right-left metabolic asymmetries did not differ significantly between Alzheimer patients and controls. Severity of dementia, as evaluated by scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination, correlated with ratios of peak rCMRglc in frontal and parietal cortex to that in sensorimotor cortex. These results indicate that measures of focal peak rCMRglc do not discriminate between mildly demented patients and controls, whereas focal ratios of rCMRglc, where the denominator corresponds to rCMRglc from a relatively spared region, provide useful measures of metabolic dysfunction in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "3497227", "title": "Dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease: cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease: cerebral glucose metabolism. Cerebral glucose metabolic rate (CMRGlu), measured by positron emission tomography, was bilaterally and symmetrically reduced in two patients with autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease. Supramarginal gyri and temporal lobes were most severely affected. An isolated reduction of CMRGlu in the left supramarginal gyrus was observed in one asymptomatic at-risk subject."}
{"id": "3497161", "title": "The effect of diazepam sedation on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured using positron emission tomography.", "content": "The effect of diazepam sedation on cerebral glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease as measured using positron emission tomography. The effect of sedation induced by intravenous diazepam on cerebral glucose metabolic activity was examined with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) in five patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Each subject was studied on 2 separate days: on one occasion at rest with eyes patched and ears open, and on the second when sedated with intravenous diazepam titrated to maintain stage II sleep by clinical and EEG criteria. Similar patterns of glucose uptake were observed in both the presence and the absence of sedation, but overall glucose utilization was depressed an average of 20% and was closely correlated with the amount of diazepam administered prior to the injection of FDG. The predominant temporoparietal hypometabolism and relative sparing of frontal metabolism observed in this disease are therefore not explained by differences in anxiety or activity level in this patient group. Utilization of diazepam sedation for PET study appears to be safe and may permit the study of patients otherwise unable to cooperate with FDG-PET procedures."}
{"id": "3495545", "title": "Behavioral activation and the variability of cerebral glucose metabolic measurements.", "content": "Behavioral activation and the variability of cerebral glucose metabolic measurements. Variability in cerebral glucose metabolism was examined between and within subjects when paired studies were performed in the resting state or in a behaviorally activated state. Both normal and demented subjects were studied twice each, from 1 to 6 weeks apart, under near-identical conditions, using positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose. Resting state studies were repeated in nine normal and four demented subjects. A picture-viewing test, used for activation during PET, was used repeatedly in seven normal and five demented subjects. Within-subject variability, as assessed by the percent difference in metabolic rates in paired studies, was reduced by 60-70% for activation state compared to resting state studies in normals. It is concluded that PET studies of brain metabolism, which are designed to study the active brain, should indeed be performed in functionally activated states, as in addition to demonstrating metabolism during a defined functional state, activation studies show reduced variability of cerebral metabolic measures."}
{"id": "3494824", "title": "Positron emission tomography in aging and dementia: effect of cerebral atrophy.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in aging and dementia: effect of cerebral atrophy. The spatial resolution of current positron emission tomography (PET) scanners does not allow a distinction between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) containing spaces and contiguous brain tissue. Data analysis strategies which therefore purport to quantify cerebral metabolism per unit mass brain tissue are in fact measuring a value which may be artifactually reduced due to contamination by CSF. We studied cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) in 17 healthy elderly individuals and 24 patients with Alzheimer's dementia using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose and PET. All subjects underwent x-ray computed tomography (XCT) scanning at the time of their PET study. The XCT scans were analyzed volumetrically, in order to determine relative areas for ventricles, sulci, and brain tissue. Global CMRglc was calculated before and after correction for contamination by CSF (cerebral atrophy). A greater increase in global CMRglc after atrophy correction was seen in demented individuals compared with elderly controls (16.9% versus 9.0%, p less than 0.0005). Additional preliminary data suggest that volumetric analysis of proton-NMR images may prove superior to analysis of XCT data in quantifying the degree of atrophy. Appropriate corrections for atrophy should be employed if current PET scanners are to accurately measure actual brain tissue metabolism in various pathologic states."}
{"id": "3494486", "title": "Intercorrelations of regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Intercorrelations of regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates in Alzheimer's disease. Patterns of cerebral metabolic correlations were compared between 21 Alzheimer's disease patients and 21 healthy age-matched controls in the resting state. Cerebral metabolic rates for glucose were determined by positron emission tomography using [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Partial correlation coefficients, controlling for whole brain glucose metabolism, were evaluated between pairs of regional glucose metabolic rates in 59 brain regions. Reliable correlation coefficients were obtained with the 'jackknife' and 'bootstrap' statistical procedures. Compared with healthy controls, the Alzheimer patients had significantly fewer reliable partial correlation coefficients between frontal and parietal lobe regions, and more reliable correlations between the cerebellum and temporal lobe. The number of reliable correlations between many bilaterally symmetric brain regions was reduced in the Alzheimer patients, as compared with controls. These results suggest that in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease there is a breakdown of the organized functional activity between the two cerebral hemispheres, and between parietal and frontal lobe structures."}
{"id": "3494109", "title": "Hemodynamic and metabolic effects of cerebral revascularization.", "content": "Hemodynamic and metabolic effects of cerebral revascularization. Pre- and postoperative positron emission tomography (PET) was performed in six patients undergoing extracranial to intracranial bypass procedures for the treatment of symptomatic extracranial carotid occlusion. The six patients were all men, aged 52 to 68 years. Their symptoms included transient ischemic attacks (five cases), amaurosis fugax (two cases), and completed stroke with good recovery (one case). Positron emission tomography was performed within 4 weeks prior to surgery and between 3 to 6 months postoperatively, using oxygen-15-labeled CO, O2, and CO2 and fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose. Cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral metabolic rates for oxygen and glucose (CMRO2 and CMRGlu), and the oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) were measured in both hemispheres. Preoperatively, compared to five elderly control subjects, patients had increased CBV, a decreased CBF/CBV ratio, and decreased CMRO2, indicating reduced cerebral perfusion pressure and depressed oxygen metabolism. The CBF was decreased in only one patient who had bilateral carotid occlusions; the OEF, CMRGlu, and CMRO2/CMRGlu and CMRGlu/CBF ratios were not significantly different from control measurements. All bypasses were patent and all patients were asymptomatic following surgery. Postoperative PET revealed decreased CBV and an increased CBF/CBV ratio, indicating improved hemodynamic function and oxygen hypometabolism. This was associated with increased CMRO2 in two patients in whom the postoperative OEF was also increased. The CMRGlu and CMRGlu/CBF ratio were increased in five patients. Changes in CBF and the CMRO2/CMRGlu ratio were variable. One patient with preoperative progressive mental deterioration, documented by serial neuropsychological testing and decreasing CBF and CMRO2, had improved postoperative CBF and CMRO2 concomitant with improved neuropsychological functioning. It is concluded that symptomatic carotid occlusion is associated with altered hemodynamic function and oxygen hypometabolism. Cerebral revascularization results in decreased CBV, indicating improved hemodynamic reserve, but does not consistently improve oxygen metabolism."}
{"id": "3494105", "title": "Cerebral metabolism, anatomy, and cognition in monozygotic twins discordant for dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism, anatomy, and cognition in monozygotic twins discordant for dementia of the Alzheimer type. One pair of monozygotic twins discordant for dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) was studied using neuropsychological testing, quantitative x-ray computed tomography (QCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. Cerebral glucose metabolism was measured using positron emission tomography (PET) and 2-[18-F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). The affected twin had a seven year history of progressive cognitive impairment and was severely demented. Neuropsychological testing of the affected twin demonstrated marked deficits in all areas of cognitive function. The asymptomatic twin showed some impairment on tests of perceptual organisation and delayed recall. The affected twin had loss of gray matter and ventricular enlargement on QCT and MRI compared with healthy controls (p less than 0.05). He also had frontal and parietal lobe hypometabolism and increased asymmetry of metabolism on PET compared to both his twin and healthy age-matched controls (p less than 0.05). PET, QCT, and MRI distinguished changes in the twin with DAT compared with his brother and healthy controls. Although the subtle neuropsychological abnormalities of the asymptomatic twin may be signs of early DAT, they were not accompanied by any changes in regional cerebral metabolism or brain structure."}
{"id": "3492992", "title": "Cerebral perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease. Use of single photon emission computed tomography and iofetamine hydrochloride I 123.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease. Use of single photon emission computed tomography and iofetamine hydrochloride I 123. We used single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to study 15 patients with Alzheimer's disease and nine controls. Iofetamine hydrochloride I 123 uptake data were recorded from the entire brain using a rotating gamma camera. Activity ratios were measured for the frontal, posterior parietal, posterior, medial, and lateral cortical temporal regions and striate cortex and were normalized by the activity in the cerebellum. Abnormalities in iofetamine hydrochloride I 123 activity were similar to the abnormalities in glucose metabolism observed with positron emission tomography. Cortical tracer activity was globally depressed in patients with Alzheimer's disease, with the greatest reduction in the posterior parietal cortex."}
{"id": "3315157", "title": "Progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Progressive supranuclear palsy. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) was first recognized as a distinct morbid entity by Richardson, Steele and Olszewski a quarter century ago. Subsequent experience has confirmed and extended their original observations. PSP has become familiar as a chronic progressive disorder with extrapyramidal rigidity, bradykinesia, gait impairment, bulbar palsy, dementia and a characteristic supranuclear ophthalmoplegia. It is an important cause of parkinsonism. Its etiology remains obscure. Familial concentrations have not been observed. Some cases exhibit no oculomotor dysfunction. Dementia is usually mild. Recent neuropsychological studies have defined features consistent with frontal lobe cortical dysfunction. Seizures and paroxysmal EEG activity may occur. CT and MRI scans show midbrain atrophy early and later atrophy of the pontine and midbrain tegmentum and the frontal and temporal lobes. PET scans have shown frontal hypometabolism and loss of striatal D-2 dopamine receptors. Postmortem studies have documented involvement of both dopaminergic and cholinergic systems. Treatment remains palliative and unsatisfactory."}
{"id": "3308421", "title": "Brain metabolism and blood flow during aging.", "content": "Brain metabolism and blood flow during aging. Recent studies of cerebral metabolism have suggested that although cerebral blood flow is reduced during rest in the healthy aged brain, there is little or no decline in resting glucose consumption. Intercorrelations between resting regional cerebral rates for glucose (rCMRglc), as determined by positron emission tomography using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose, were shown to provide a measure of the functional associativity of brain regions. Partial correlation coefficients, controlling for whole brain glucose metabolism, were used in the analysis. Dividing the brain into 59 regions, we found, for 40 healthy males (21-83 years in age) in a state of reduced sensory input, that the strongest correlations generally were between bilaterally symmetric brain regions, and that there were many statistically significant correlations (P less than 0.01) among frontal and parietal lobe regions and also among temporal and occipital lobe areas, but few significant correlations between these two domains. The correlation analysis then was applied to two groups (15 healthy males each) of young (20-32 years old) and elderly (64-83 years old) subjects in the same resting state. Compared with the young group, we found that the elderly subjects have fewer statistically significant (P less than 0.01) correlations, with the most noteworthy reductions being between parietal and frontal lobe regions, and among parietal lobe areas. These findings indicated that cerebral functional interactions were reduced in the healthy elderly. The same analysis, applied to 21 mainly mildly-to-moderately impaired presumed Alzheimer subjects (and 21 age-matched controls), revealed fewer significant correlations between homologous brain regions which correspond to metabolic asymmetries linked to neuropsychological deficiencies."}
{"id": "3149469", "title": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in five patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.", "content": "Cerebral glucose metabolism in five patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Regional cerebral glucose metabolic rates were estimated by positron emission tomography, in parallel with electroencephalography and cranial computed tomography in 5 patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. The 5 patients, 3 boys and 2 girls, ranged in age from 10-15 years. Computed tomography revealed no gross abnormalities. Each patient received 2-5 mCi of 2-(18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18F-FDG) intravenously. Averaged cerebral glucose metabolic rates were reduced in each cerebral region as compared with controls. Unilateral hypometabolism was present in 4 patients: one in the inferior frontal gyrus as well as the posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus; one in the inferior frontal gyrus; one in the posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus; and one demonstrated diffuse hemispheric hypometabolism including the inferior frontal and posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus. The side of hypometabolism was the same as the epileptogenic focus on the electroencephalogram. No focal changes were demonstrated on the electroencephalogram of a patient whose positron emission tomography revealed hemispheric hypometabolism. Hypometabolism of the inferior frontal and posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus may relate to the possible pathogenesis of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Positron emission tomography has the potential to reveal a latent focal or lateralized abnormality in some patients with non-localized electroencephalographic changes."}
{"id": "3102988", "title": "[Surgical treatment of convexity focal epilepsy--based on diagnosis of PET and subdural EEG].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of convexity focal epilepsy--based on diagnosis of PET and subdural EEG]. The most important premise for a successful surgical treatment of epilepsy lies in an accurate diagnosis of the focus location. The hitherto employed methods for this purpose are meticulous analysis of seizure contents and scalp EEGs, but spatial localization of the focus sites is far beyond the capacity of these diagnostic measures. With the advent of positron emission tomography (PET), in vivo observation of human brain metabolism has become possible. The indices of brain metabolism such as cerebral blood flow (rCBF), cerebral metabolic rate of glucose or oxygen (CMRG, CMRO2) are noninvasively measured by PET offering priceless information for diagnosing brain dysfunction such as ischemia, degeneration, psychosis, or epilepsy. Kuhl et al. first employed PET in assessment of epileptic foci, in which interictal foci were beautifully detected as discrete \"hypometabolic zones\". Many researchers have confirmed this invaluable finding, and nowadays PET seems to have acquired the citizenship as one of the most capable diagnostic measures in focus localization. We have hitherto applied PET study in 72 epileptic patients. The main contents of their seizures consists of complex partial in 32, elementary partial in 32, generalized in 6, and others in 3 cases. We administered perorally 10 mCi glucose labeled with C11 produced in the JSW Baby Cyclotron for the study of CMRG. The continuous inhalation method of CO2 and O2 labeled with O15 produced in the same cyclotron was also employed for measurement of rCBF and CMRO2. In both studies, epileptic foci were shown as well demarcated hypometabolic zones with decreased CMRG, rCBF or CMRO2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2960785", "title": "Positron emission tomography in cases of chorea with different underlying diseases.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in cases of chorea with different underlying diseases. Local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRglc) was measured with positron emission tomography using the 18F-fluorodeoxy-glucose method in five patients with chorea due to different underlying diseases. Hypometabolism was observed in the striatum bilaterally in patients with Huntington's disease, choreoacanthocytosis, sporadic progressive chorea and dementia, and pseudo-Huntington form of dentato-rubro-pallido-luysian atrophy (DRPLA). The patient with hemichorea showed hypometabolism in the striatum on the contralateral side to the chorea. The patient with pseudo-Huntington form of DRPLA showed a diffusely decreased LCMRglc in other structures including the cerebral cortex, thalamus and cerebellum. These findings indicated that dysfunction of the striatum is relevant to the genesis of chorea in all these patients, even though the extent of dysfunction in other structures is different in each case."}
{"id": "2960430", "title": "Cerebral glucose and dopa metabolism in movement disorders.", "content": "Cerebral glucose and dopa metabolism in movement disorders. The development of positron emission tomography (PET) has enabled us to perform in vivo measurements of certain aspects of regional cerebral function. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism may be readily quantified with [18F] fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) and presynaptic dopaminergic function may be studied with the labelled dopa analog 6-[18F] fluoro-L-dopa. We have applied a model to the analysis of 6-FD/PET data with which in vivo age-related changes in dopaminergic function may be demonstrated in normal subjects. With this technique, we have studied a series of asymptomatic MPTP-exposed subjects and have shown evidence of subclinical nigrostriatal pathway damage. Studies of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with FDG in early Huntington's disease have shown a characteristic impairment in caudate function which precedes the development of caudate atrophy. In addition, some asymptomatic individuals who are at risk for HD have caudate hypometabolism. We feel that, at the present time, PET provides information which is complementary to the clinical examination in establishing a diagnosis of HD. In the future these studies may also help in the investigation of at risk individuals."}
{"id": "2956363", "title": "Decline in cerebral glucose utilisation and cognitive function with aging in Down's syndrome.", "content": "Decline in cerebral glucose utilisation and cognitive function with aging in Down's syndrome. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) was measured with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in 14 healthy subjects with Down's syndrome, 19 to 33 years old, and in six healthy Down's syndrome subjects over 35 years, two of whom were demented. Dementia was diagnosed from a history of mental deterioration, disorientation and hallucinations. All Down's syndrome subjects were trisomy 21 karyotype. CMRglc also was examined in 15 healthy men aged 20-35 years and in 20 healthy men aged 45-64 years. All subjects were at rest with eyes covered and ears plugged. Mean hemispheric CMRglc in the older Down's syndrome subjects was significantly less, by 23%, than in the young Down's syndrome group; statistically significant decreases in regional metabolism (rCMRglc) also were present in all lobar regions. Comparison of the younger control group with the older control group showed no difference in CMRglc or any rCMRglc (p greater than 0.05). Assessment of language, visuospatial ability, attention and memory showed significant reductions in test scores of the old as compared with the young Down's syndrome subjects. These results show that significant age differences in CMRglc and rCMRglc occur in Down's syndrome but not in healthy controls, and that, although only some older Down's syndrome subjects are demented, significant age reductions in neuropsychologic variables occur in all of them."}
{"id": "2950844", "title": "Normal caudate glucose metabolism in persons at risk for Huntington's disease.", "content": "Normal caudate glucose metabolism in persons at risk for Huntington's disease. Glucose metabolism was examined by positron emission tomographic scanning with F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in 29 persons at risk for Huntington's disease (HD), 28 age-matched controls, nine patients with stage I, and eight patients with stage II symptomatic HD. Absolute caudate metabolic rates and normalized indexes of caudate metabolism for at-risk persons were normal compared with controls. No at-risk person had caudate indexes outside two SDs of the controls' mean. Caudate metabolism in the earliest HD cases was significantly reduced compared with controls and at-risk persons, but within the 99% confidence levels of both groups. Stage II patients had caudate measures that were significantly depressed compared with those of stage I HD patients. Measurement of caudate glucose hypometabolism is unlikely to be sufficiently sensitive to serve as a presymptomatic marker of heterozygote status, although it will provide a sensitive marker for progressive caudate dysfunction in HD."}
{"id": "2949152", "title": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in asymptomatic subjects at risk for Huntington's disease.", "content": "Reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in asymptomatic subjects at risk for Huntington's disease. Symptomatic patients with Huntington's disease may have reduced glucose metabolism in the caudate nuclei. We used positron emission tomography and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose to study cerebral glucose metabolism in 95 subjects: 58 clinically asymptomatic (chorea-free) subjects at risk for Huntington's disease, 10 symptomatic patients with the disease, and 27 controls. All the symptomatic patients had marked reductions in caudate glucose metabolism. Despite a normal structural appearance on computed tomography, caudate glucose metabolism was bilaterally reduced in 31 percent of the subjects at risk (18 of 58). Using each at-risk subject's age and the sex of the affected parent, we averaged individual risk estimates for the development of Huntington's disease for this group and predicted that the probability of having the clinically unexpressed Huntington's disease gene should be 33.9 +/- 6.0 percent for the group. Thus, there was excellent agreement between the predicted percentage of carriers of the Huntington's disease gene (33.9 +/- 6.0 percent) and the percentage with metabolic abnormalities of the caudate nuclei (31 percent). These results indicate that the measurement of glucose metabolism may allow the observation of the pathophysiologic effects of the Huntington's disease gene during the natural development of the disease. It may also provide a direct means to monitor the response to experimental treatments during both the clinically asymptomatic and the symptomatic phases of the disorder."}
{"id": "2879258", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: low cerebral somatostatin levels correlate with impaired cognitive function and cortical metabolism.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: low cerebral somatostatin levels correlate with impaired cognitive function and cortical metabolism. Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in Alzheimer CSF was significantly lower than in that from age-matched controls. The degree of reduction correlated with indices of intellectual impairment and decline in cortical glucose utilization as determined by PET. There was a close association between reduction in CSF somatostatin and glucose hypometabolism in the parietal lobe. In postmortem cortical tissue from Alzheimer patients, somatostatin levels were lower in posterior parietal but not in anterior frontal cortex. Loss of somatostatin-containing neurons, especially in the parietal association cortex, may be a critical determinant for Alzheimer dementia."}
{"id": "2827290", "title": "[Paraneoplastic limbic encephalopathy, inappropriate ADH secretion and recurrent subclinical epileptic seizures. Clinical, anatomo-pathological and metabolic correlations by positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Paraneoplastic limbic encephalopathy, inappropriate ADH secretion and recurrent subclinical epileptic seizures. Clinical, anatomo-pathological and metabolic correlations by positron emission tomography]. We report a case of limbic encephalopathy clinically characterized by a progressive amnestic syndrome and many EEG seizures mainly localized on the left temporal area. Biological investigations revealed diabetes mellitus and a syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (IADH). Haemodynamic and metabolic studies by positron-emission tomography showed an important increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen on the left anterior temporal region precisely where the electrical seizures were recorded. Nine months later, severe disorders of memory and a dramatic decrease in CBF and CMRO2 on the same area region were present. At autopsy, a small size oat cell bronchial carcinoma was found with metastases in two small adjacent lymph nodes. Neuropathological examination showed atrophy (neuronal loss, protoplasmic gliosis) in the amygdala; where there was in addition an area of nodular gliosis. The hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus lesions were severe on the left and moderate on the right side. The authors discuss the nosology of their case in the paraneoplastic syndromes and, with a review of the literature, the role of ADH and cellular hyperactivity in the pathogenesis of specifically localized neuronal alterations."}
{"id": "2827263", "title": "[SPECT studies with 99mTc-HMPAO in Huntington's chorea patients].", "content": "[SPECT studies with 99mTc-HMPAO in Huntington's chorea patients]. Huntington's chorea is an autosomal dominant inherited disease with a chronic course and atrophy of the corpus striatum. PET examination shows reduced glucose metabolism in the caudate nucleus. We examined seven patients with Huntington's chorea by SPECT, using 99mTc-HMPAO. All patients had cortical defects of varying severity. In addition, five patients showed increased uptake in the region of the caudate nucleus. The specific tracer uptake due to the metabolic processes in the region of the caudate nucleus in Huntington's chorea is discussed."}
{"id": "3713668", "title": "Multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "Multi-infarct dementia. The participation of vascular disease in elderly dementia has been clarified to a significant degree in the past decade. The term multi-infarct dementia implies that severe mental impairment can result from thrombosis of large and medium arteries or from multifocal emboli of either cardiac or arterial origin. This is markedly different from the concept, which, unfortunately, is still the generally current view in the lay press, in some medical journals, and in advertisements of pharmaceutical companies, that gradual narrowing of cervical and cerebral arteries produces chronic hypoperfusion of the brain and is the basis of mental deterioration. This concept of generalized cerebral arteriosclerosis or arteriosclerotic dementia is no longer acceptable. Most patients with MID can be distinguished from those suffering from other types of dementia by employing a clinical ischemic score supplemented by electrophysiologic studies, CCT, and neuropsychological testing. Furthermore, the association of MID with severe hypertension and thromboembolism makes early diagnosis imperative, because appropriate treatment may arrest progression and even provide some improvement."}
{"id": "3541048", "title": "Positron emission tomography and the possible origins of cytopathology in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography and the possible origins of cytopathology in Alzheimer's disease. The local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRgl), as determined by positron emission tomography (PET), declines in the cerebral cortex in Alzheimer's disease; the severity of the decline parallels the severity of the dementia and correlates with regional cortical neuronal loss and glial proliferation. The cholinergic cells of the medial basal forebrain show a pathological dropout in Alzheimer's disease which accounts for the decline in choline acetyltransferase in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. It is proposed that these cholinergic cells serve both as an acquisition and readout device for memory; reconstruction of real time events can thus be created in the areas of neocortex where consciousness resides. Alzheimer's disease may have a toxic, genetic or infectious origin; electron microscopic evidence is presented for the possible presence of viral particles of the double stranded DNA type in Alzheimer's brain tissue."}
{"id": "3541044", "title": "Antemortem laboratory diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Antemortem laboratory diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. The accuracy of diagnosis for AD by conventional clinical and laboratory means is in the order of 80%. Neurophysiological techniques (EEG, evoked potentials) show abnormalities in AD that could prove to be useful for diagnosis after pharmacological challenges. CSF analysis show a reduction of the concentration of various neuropeptides, reduction shared by other types of dementias. Among the existing imaging techniques PET using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose is the most diagnostic in AD because of the early and often asymmetrical decrease in parietotemporal metabolic activity. Cortical biopsy with histological and biochemical analysis can provide an accurate in vivo diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "3512063", "title": "Positron emission tomography in patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease. Fourteen patients who had clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease with mild to severe dementia (mean age 69.1 years) were evaluated by calculation of local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMR-gl) based on uptake of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) detected with positron emission tomography (PET). PET scanning showed that the patients had significantly lower LCMR-gl values than 11 age-matched neurologically normal volunteers (mean age 66.3 years). The differences were most marked in the temporal cortex, followed by the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex. In each case the LCMR-gl value was below the lowest control value in at least one cortical area and usually in several; the reduction in LCMR-gl and the number of regions involved in the patients increased with the severity of the dementia. Deficits noted in neuropsychologic testing generally correlated with those predicted from loss of regional cortical metabolism. The patients with Alzheimer's disease were also examined with magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography or both; the degree of atrophy found showed only a poor correlation with the neuropsychologic deficit. Significant atrophy was also noted in some of the controls. A detailed analysis of LCMR-gl values in selected cerebral regions of various sizes refuted the hypothesis that the reduction in cortical glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease is due to the filling by metabolically inert cerebrospinal fluid of space created by tissue atrophy."}
{"id": "3495606", "title": "[Glucose metabolism in ischemic myocardium: quantitative imaging using positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Glucose metabolism in ischemic myocardium: quantitative imaging using positron emission tomography]. We determined the myocardial metabolic rate for glucose (MMRGlc) in the ischemic or infarcted myocardium using 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18-FDG) with positron emission tomography (PET), and studied energy metabolism in the ischemic myocardium. In some cases, we compared glucose metabolism images by 18-FDG with myocardial blood flow images using 15-oxygen water. Two normal subjects, seven patients with myocardial infarction and four patients with angina pectoris were studied. Coronary angiography was performed within two weeks before or after the PET study to detect ischemic areas. PET studies were performed for patients who did not eat for 5 to 6 hours after breakfast. Cannulation was performed in the pedal artery to measure free fatty acid, blood sugar, and insulin. After recording the transmission scan for subsequent correction of photon attenuation, blood pool images were recorded for two min. after the inhalation of carbon monoxide (oxygen-15) which labeled the red blood cells in vivo. After 20 min., oxygen-15 water (15 to 20 mCi) was injected for dynamic scans, and flow images were obtained. Thirty min. after this procedure, 18-FDG (5 to 6 mCi) was injected, and 60 min later, a static scan was performed and glucose metabolism images were obtained. Arterial blood sampling for the time activity curve of the tracer was performed at the same time. According to the method of Phelps et al, MMRGlc was calculated in each of the region of interest (ROI) which was located in the left ventricular wall. MMRGlc obtained from each ROI was 0 to 17 mg/100 ml/min. In normal subjects MMRGlc was 0.4 to 7.3 mg/100 ml/min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3493192", "title": "[Disorders of glucose metabolism in Pick's disease].", "content": "[Disorders of glucose metabolism in Pick's disease]. A clinically diagnosed case of advanced Pick's disease served to illustrate that positron emission tomography is a sensitive method for diagnosing complex functional disturbances. Pick's disease can be differentiated against presenile dementia represented by Alzheimer's disease in that the pattern of reduced metabolism characteristic of Alzheimer's disease is different from that of Pick's disease where in accordance with the clinical syndrome the glucose metabolism in the frontal and temporobasal regions in reduced, involving also the structures of the hippocampus and an equally significant reduction of glucose metabolism in the caudate nucleus. Especially during the initial phase of the disease when structural changes are not yet evident or the clinical manifestation of the syndrome does not correlate with the degree of lobar atrophy seen in the computer tomogram or via magnetic resonance tomography, positron emission tomography can make differential diagnosis much easier."}
{"id": "3492510", "title": "Towards a behavioral typology of Alzheimer's patients.", "content": "Towards a behavioral typology of Alzheimer's patients. Neuropsychological test performance and estimates of regional rates of cortical glucose metabolism obtained via positron emission tomography are presented for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Analyses of these data indicated the presence of distinct subgroups characterized by qualitatively different profiles of cognitive impairment and corresponding patterns of cerebral hypometabolism. No subgroup differences were noted with regard to age at onset or reported duration of symptoms. These findings indicate that, in a given individual, AD may initially invade a relatively circumscribed cortical region. Thus, although AD may constitute a single disease process, it does not result in a unitary neuropsychological syndrome."}
{"id": "3492415", "title": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in presenile dementia of the Alzheimer type--follow-up of therapy with muscarinergic choline agonists].", "content": "[Cerebral glucose metabolism in presenile dementia of the Alzheimer type--follow-up of therapy with muscarinergic choline agonists]. In 8 patients who had clinically diagnosed presenile dementia (Alzheimer's disease) the cerebral glucose metabolism was repeatedly determined via FDG-PET under therapy with a muscarinergic choline agonist. The pattern of glucose metabolism disturbance characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, which had been determined previously by examining the metabolism, was confirmed. Whereas the total cortical glucose metabolism was significantly reduced, the regions of the parietal and the adjacent regions of the temporal and occipital association cortex were preferably affected. The primary somatosensory and visual cortex were largely excepted from the reduction in metabolism or showed slightly enhanced metabolic rates, as for example the cerebellum. The disturbance was not equilaterally pronounced and correlated with the neuropsychological deficiency. Despite biochemically \"on target\" therapy the glucose metabolism decreased progressively (mean value with large interindividual and intraindividual variations. No relationship between the degree of reduced metabolism and the clinical pattern was seen. Rather, it appears that the clinical pattern is much more strongly influenced by mutual adjustment of metabolic differences in various areas of the brain. Results obtained by the authors are communicated besides a review of update knowledge and interpretation of pathophysiological and biochemical linkups in Alzheimer's disease, taking into consideration the glucose metabolism studies published in the literature."}
{"id": "3491664", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: metabolic uncoupling of associative brain regions.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: metabolic uncoupling of associative brain regions. Evidence indicates that Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes functional disconnection of neocortical association areas. In midly demented AD patients without measurable neocortically-mediated cognitive abnormalities, positron emission tomography demonstrates reduced parietal lobe glucose metabolism and left/right metabolic asymmetries in neocortical association areas. Similar metabolic abnormalities occur in moderately demented patients, but are accompanied by appropriate language and visuospatial discrepancies. Left/right metabolic asymmetries correspond with reduced numbers of partial correlations between metabolic rates in homologous right and left regions, and in the frontal and parietal cortices, indicating metabolic uncoupling among these regions. The affected association regions are those which demonstrate Alzheimer-type neuropathology post-mortem."}
{"id": "3491344", "title": "Comparison of PET, MRI, and CT with pathology in a proven case of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparison of PET, MRI, and CT with pathology in a proven case of Alzheimer's disease. Positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and CT were carried out in a patient with Alzheimer's disease 16 months before he died. At autopsy, the gross appearance of the brain correlated with MRI and CT, which showed some regional atrophy. These were much less revealing than PET, which correlated with microscopic findings of neuronal loss and proliferation of glia. In areas of moderately impaired local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose, as revealed by reduced FDG uptake, there was some gliosis, primarily around the numerous senile plaques. In areas of severe metabolic impairment, there was a profound loss of neurons, extensive gliosis, and a diminished appearance of plaques. PET-FDG is a better measure of the severity of Alzheimer's disease than MRI or CT, because it reflects the degree of neuronal pathology."}
{"id": "3488728", "title": "Neocortical metabolic abnormalities precede nonmemory cognitive defects in early Alzheimer's-type dementia.", "content": "Neocortical metabolic abnormalities precede nonmemory cognitive defects in early Alzheimer's-type dementia. Neuropsychological function and resting regional neocortical glucose metabolism, as measured by positron-emission tomography, were studied in 22 patients with mild and moderate Alzheimer's-type dementia. Metabolic reductions in the parietal association cortex and increased left-right metabolic asymmetry were observed in patients with mild and moderate degrees of dementia. Five patients with mild dementia had no impairment of neocortically mediated neuropsychological function, yet they demonstrated these same neocortical metabolic abnormalities. Asymmetry of neocortically mediated, neuropsychological functions correlated with metabolic asymmetries in patients with moderate but not mild dementia. These results suggest that physiological dysfunction in the that physiological dysfunction in the association neocortex is evident in early Alzheimer's-type dementia before the neuropsychological consequences of that dysfunction are demonstrable."}
{"id": "3488245", "title": "Positron emission tomography in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. Age differences are not found for the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMR glc) measured with positron emission tomography (PET) with 18F-2-deoxy-D-glucose, in healthy subjects at rest and with reduced sensory stimulation. Furthermore, measures of cognitive function are not correlated with resting rCMR glc in healthy subjects. In patients with presumptive Alzheimer's disease (AD), regional cerebral blood flow is reduced throughout the brain in relation to the severity of dementia, whereas regional reductions in rCMR glc are correlated with neuropsychometric deficits subserved by those regions. Right-left asymmetries in rCMR glc appear early in AD and are correlated with appropriate right-left asymmetries in language as compared to visuo-constructive abilities. Thus, PET, when combined with neuropsychological measures, can be used to examine specific cerebral function changes during the course of AD."}
{"id": "3487046", "title": "Positron emission tomography in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in Alzheimer's disease. Twenty-one patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT) and 29 healthy, age-matched controls were studied using positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose to measure regional cerebral glucose consumption in the resting state. Reductions in ratio measures of relative metabolism in some parietal, temporal, and frontal regions were found in mild, moderate, and severe DAT groups. A significant increase in right/left metabolic asymmetry, particularly in parietal regions, also was seen in mild and moderate groups. Only in the severely demented patients was the absolute cerebral metabolic rate reduced significantly from control values. Fourteen patients had repeated PET studies, but only those patients with moderate to severe dementia showed a decline in IQ over 6 to 15 months. There were no significant changes in metabolic measures over time. PET is useful in quantifying regional cerebral dysfunction in DAT, even in the early stages of the disease."}
{"id": "3486378", "title": "Positron emission tomography in neuropsychology.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in neuropsychology. By positron emission tomography (PET) of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRGl) can be measured in man. Normal values in cerebral cortex and basal ganglia range from 35 to 50 mumol/100 g/min, the values in gray matter structures of the posterior fossa were 25-30 mumol/100 g/min, the lowest LCMRGl was found in the white matter (15-20 mumol/100 g/min). During sensory stimulation by various modalities functional activation increases LCMRGl in the respective special areas, while sleep decreases metabolic rate in all cortical and basal gray matter structures. In many neurological disorders CMRGl is altered in a disease-specific pattern. In dementia of the Alzheimer type CMRGl is impaired even in early stages with accentuation in the parieto-temporal cortex, while in multi-infarct dementia glucose uptake is mainly reduced in the multifocal small infarcts. In Huntington's chorea the most conspicuous changes are found in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In cases of focal lesions (e.g. ischemic infarcts) metabolic disturbances extend far beyond the site of the primary lesion and inactivation of metabolism is found in intact brain structures far away from the anatomical lesion. Additional applications of PET include determination of the metabolism of various substrates, of protein synthesis, of function and distribution of receptors, of tumor growth and of the distribution of drugs as well as the measurement of oxygen consumption, blood flow and blood volume."}
{"id": "3484931", "title": "Slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia: studies with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia: studies with positron emission tomography. Slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia is a degenerative syndrome selectively affecting dominant hemisphere language areas. We report changes in regional glucose metabolism measured by positron emission tomography in two patients with this condition. Striking abnormalities of glucose utilization in the left cerebral cortex were demonstrated in both patients. The findings of other neurodiagnostic studies were relatively unremarkable. The first patient had a 3-year history of progressive anomia and impaired auditory verbal recall. An electroencephalogram was normal, and computed tomography showed mild left perisylvian atrophy. Positron emission tomography revealed profound hypometabolism in the left temporal regions. The second patient also had a 3-year history of progressive anomia. Electroencephalography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging scans were normal. Positron emission tomography showed a major reduction in left parietal glucose utilization, with a lesser decrement in left temporal metabolism. Neither patient demonstrated significant contralateral or global abnormalities such as those reported in positron emission tomographic studies of Alzheimer's disease with or without focal clinical features. These observations support the concept of adult-onset progressive aphasia without dementia as a clinical syndrome distinct from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "3081943", "title": "Patients with partial seizures: evaluation by MR, CT, and PET imaging.", "content": "Patients with partial seizures: evaluation by MR, CT, and PET imaging. Fifty patients who experienced partial seizures were imaged with computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MR); 14 of these also had imaging studies of local cerebral glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography (PET). Thirteen patients with attenuation abnormalities on CT scans also had abnormal signals on MR images; ten other patients had MR-image signal abnormalities but normal CT scans. In all seven patients undergoing PET who had MR-signal and sometimes also CT-attenuation abnormalities, areas of metabolic asymmetry were present. Positive PET scans were also seen in three patients with no evidence of abnormality on CT and MR studies. Focal cerebral substance loss on CT and MR studies, present in 21 patients, did not correlate well with electroencephalographic findings. MR is utilized as the initial imaging procedure in patients with partial seizures because it is more readily available and less invasive than PET and more sensitive than CT scanning."}
{"id": "2973559", "title": "Brain energy metabolism and dopaminergic function in Huntington's disease measured in vivo using positron emission tomography.", "content": "Brain energy metabolism and dopaminergic function in Huntington's disease measured in vivo using positron emission tomography. A 48-year-old man with typical Huntington's disease was investigated with computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography. Regional cerebral blood flow, oxygen extraction, oxygen and glucose utilisation, L-Dopa uptake, and dopamine (D2) receptor binding were measured using several positron-labelled tracers. CT showed slight atrophy of the head of caudate but no cortical atrophy, although distinct frontal lobe dysfunction was present on psychometric testing. Oxygen and glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow were decreased in the striata and to a lesser extent in frontal cortex. Cerebral blood flow was in the low normal range throughout the remainder of the brain. A normal metabolic ratio was found in all regions, since the changes in glucose utilisation paralleled those in oxygen consumption. The capacity of the striatum to store dopamine as assessed by L-[18F]-fluorodopa uptake was normal, but dopamine (D2) receptor binding was decreased when compared to normal subjects."}
{"id": "2973557", "title": "Cerebral metabolism of glucose in benign hereditary chorea.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism of glucose in benign hereditary chorea. Benign hereditary chorea (BHC) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by chorea of early onset with little or no progression. There is marked clinical variability in this disease with some subjects having onset in infancy and others with onset in early adulthood. In contrast to Huntington's disease (HD), there is no dementia. Computed tomography is normal in all subjects with no evidence of caudate nucleus atrophy. We present the results of positron emission tomography using 18F-2-fluorodeoxyglucose on three patients with this disorder from two families. Cerebral glucose metabolism in one patient was decreased in the caudate nucleus, as previously reported in HD. The other two persons from a second family showed a relative decrease in metabolic rates of glucose in the caudate when compared with the thalamus. It appears that caudate hypometabolism is not specific for HD. These findings suggest that the caudate nucleus may play a significant role in the pathophysiology of some persons with BHC."}
{"id": "2940474", "title": "Positron emission tomography in the early diagnosis of Huntington's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in the early diagnosis of Huntington's disease. We studied 10 patients with early Huntington's disease and 7 normal age-matched controls with positron emission tomography (PET) using fluorodeoxyglucose. Subjects had little or no caudate nucleus atrophy and had not received any medications. The results demonstrated that hypometabolism of glucose preceded tissue loss. Furthermore, patients with minimal neurologic or psychiatric symptoms and no obvious CT changes may be differentiated from normal persons with high accuracy by PET. PET is helpful in the early diagnosis of Huntington's disease irrespective of the mode of presentation. PET may also be useful for preclinical detection and may supplement information from DNA studies."}
{"id": "2935938", "title": "Positron emission tomography imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Positron emission tomography imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism. The (F-18) fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) technique to measure local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRglu) is well accepted and widely used by many institutions around the world. A large number of studies has been carried out in normal volunteers and patients with a variety of CNS disorders. Several investigators have noted that no significant age-related changes in cerebral glucose use occur with normal aging. Some important and interesting findings have been revealed following sensory, motor, visual, and auditory stimulations. Functional imaging with FDG in certain neurologic disorders has dramatically improved our understanding of their underlying pathophysiologic phenomena. Some abnormalities detected on the positron emission tomography (PET) images have no corresponding changes on either x-ray computed tomograms (XCT) or magnetic resonance images (MRI). In patients with Alzheimer's disease, primary sensorimotor, visual, and cerebellar metabolic activity appears relatively preserved. In contrast, parietal, temporal, and to some degree, frontal glucose metabolism is significantly diminished even in the early stages of the disease. Patients with Huntington's disease and those at risk of developing this disorder have a typical pattern of diminished CMRglu in the caudate nuclei and putamen. In patients with stroke, PET images with FDG have demonstrated abnormal findings earlier than either XCT or MRI and with a wider topographic distribution. FDG scans have revealed interictal zones of decreased LCMRglu in approximately 70% of patients with partial epilepsy. The location of the area of hypometabolism corresponds to the site of the epileptic focus as determined by electroencephalography and microscopic examination of the resected tissue. Ictal scans during partial seizures demonstrate areas of hypermetabolism corresponding to the sites of seizure onset and spread. Several investigators have reported relative hypofrontal CMRglu in patients with schizophrenia. In our center, FDG scans from patients with schizophrenia were successfully differentiated from those obtained in normal controls. Finally, our preliminary data (using PET, XCT, and MRI) in patients with CNS disorders indicate that MRI provides excellent delineation of the structural abnormalities. It may prove to be superior to XCT in the evaluation of certain diseases such as cerebral ischemia and infarcts, head injury, tumors, and white matter lesions. Metabolic imaging with FDG provides functional information not obtainable with either MRI or NMR spectroscopy. Therefore, PET studies will play a complementary role to the anatomic imaging in the management of patients with CNS disorders."}
{"id": "2431752", "title": "Cortical metabolism, acetylcholinesterase staining and pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cortical metabolism, acetylcholinesterase staining and pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease. The local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (LCMRgl) was determined by positron emission tomography (PET) using the 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose method in a series of Alzheimer patients and normal controls. The LCMRgl declined in the cerebral cortex with age, but the decrement was significantly greater in the clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's cases. Comparison of PET and psychological data indicated that, as the disease progressed clinically, the reduction in cortical LCMRgl and the number of cortical regions involved also increased. Variable regions of cortex were involved in the early stages but the temporal, parietal and frontal regions were most typically affected. One case coming to autopsy showed that the severity of the LCMRgl decline paralleled loss of neurons in the cortex and their replacement with astroglia. A case of Pick's disease coming to autopsy had shown a different and highly characteristic pattern of cortical metabolic defect. In this case also a poor metabolic rate was associated with extensive gliosis. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining of the cerebral cortex in elderly normals and Alzheimer's disease cases with a new, highly sensitive method showed that in Alzheimer's disease there was an extensive loss of AChE-positive fibers with senile plaques frequently incorporating AChE-positive fiber debris. AChE staining of the substantia innominata area, where the cells giving rise to these neocortical fibers are presumably located, also showed evidence of degenerating cells and fibers."}
{"id": "4001704", "title": "[Arteriopathic leukoencephalopathy (17 anatomo-clinical cases)].", "content": "[Arteriopathic leukoencephalopathy (17 anatomo-clinical cases)]. Seventeen clinico-pathological cases of leukoencephalopathy due to vascular diseases are reported. All of them had diffuse, often spotty demyelination sparing the U fibers, the corpus callosum, the internal capsule and the optic radiations. Microscopic examination of the white matter showed the association of the following lesions: oedema, swollen oligodendroglia, spongiosis, incomplete loss of myelin, astrocytic gliosis with Rosenthal's fibers, widening of the perivascular spaces with oedema fluid or hemosiderin laden macrophages, thickening and hyalinization of the blood vessels walls. Among those cases, 8 were consistent with Binswanger's subcortical encephalopathy (5 males, 3 females, mean age at death: 64 years, mean illness duration: 6, 7 years); all of them were hypertensive and had lacunae in the basal ganglia, hemispheric white matter and pons. Another case could be considered as a cortico-subcortical chronic hypertensive encephalopathy (77 y.o., female, illness duration: 4 years); she was hypertensive and had small cortical infarcts and perivascular bleedings, lobar and cerebellar hematomas, but no amyloid deposits in the blood vessels walls. Eight patients (5 males, 3 females mean age at death: 72 years, mean illness duration: 5, 4 years, 6 normotensive, 2 hypertensive) had diffuse meningocortical amyloid angiopathy with multiple small cortical infarcts, small cortical perivascular bleedings, slit haemorrhages and one or more lobar hematomas. Four of them had numerous senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. To our knowledge such a leukoencephalopathy in cerebral amyloid angiopathy has not been yet pointed out. It was present in 8 out of 12 cases of diffuse haemorrhagic form of cerebral amyloid angiopathy observed in the Charles Foix Laboratory of la Salp\u00eatri\u00e8re, during the last 10 years. A common mechanism with hypoperfusion of the distal white matter and alteration of the blood brain-barrier is suggested for this leukoencephalopathy."}
{"id": "3988821", "title": "Relations between neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic asymmetries in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relations between neuropsychological and cerebral metabolic asymmetries in early Alzheimer's disease. Regional CMRglc (rCMRglc) values were determined with positron emission tomography (PET) in 10 patients with mild to moderate clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in 26 healthy controls. rCMRglc in frontal, parietal, and temporal association cortices were significantly more laterally asymmetrical in AD patients than in controls (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, lateral asymmetry of rCMRglc in AD patients but not in the control subjects correlated significantly with asymmetry of language and visuospatial functions such that lower left than right rCMRglc was associated with relatively greater impairment of language and vice versa. The results demonstrate that discrepancies between language and visuospatial deficits in patients with early AD are related to asymmetrical reductions in cerebral cortical glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "3972914", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in normal human aging, pathological aging, and senile dementia.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in normal human aging, pathological aging, and senile dementia. A review and a reappraisal are presented of earlier data on cerebral circulatory and metabolic studies in normal active elderly men (Group I) of mean age 71 years, compared with normal young subjects of mean age 21 years, conducted at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, U.S.A., during 1956-1958. There was no significant difference in the mean CBF and cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) values between the two populations; i.e., these important parameters did not fall with chronological aging per se. There was significant depression in the mean cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRG) value (by approximately 23%) in the aged compared with the young. Newer methods using positron emission tomography and appropriate isotopes have confirmed these findings in normal aging in human subjects and experimental animals. As expected, MABP and cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) were significantly elevated in the normal aged. MABP was even more elevated in elderly hypertensive subjects, and the CVR more elevated in the subjects with arteriosclerosis (Group II), who also showed a small but significant fall in CBF and in internal jugular venous PO2. The CBF showed a more pronounced fall in senile aged patients with chronic brain syndrome (Group III), in whom the CMRO2 also showed a marked drop (by approximately 22%); the CMRG fell still further (approximately 40% of that in the young). Of the few aged subjects followed up after a lapse of 11 years by a repeat estimation of the same physiological and psychological parameters and of the EEG, most showed clear worsening, together with a fall in overall physical and intellectual performance, probably related to a rise in CVR and an increase in atherosclerosis with aging.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3921871", "title": "Positron emission tomography in generalized seizures.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in generalized seizures. We used 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) to study nine patients with clinical absence or generalized seizures. One patient had only absence seizures, two had only generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and six had both seizure types. Interictal scans in eight failed to reveal focal or lateralized hypometabolism. No apparent abnormalities were noted. Two patients had PET scans after isotope injection during hyperventilation-induced generalized spike-wave discharges. Diffusely increased metabolic rates were found in one compared with an interictal scan, and in another compared with control values. Another patient had FDG injected during absence status: EEG showed generalized spike-wave discharges (during which she was unresponsive) intermixed with slow activity accompanied by confusion. Metabolic rates were decreased, compared with the interictal scan, throughout both cortical and subcortical structures. Interictal PET did not detect specific anatomic regions responsible for absence seizure onset in any patient, but the results of the ictal scans did suggest that pathophysiologic differences exist between absence status and single absence attacks."}
{"id": "3915647", "title": "Stimulation of the basal nucleus of Meynert in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type. A preliminary report.", "content": "Stimulation of the basal nucleus of Meynert in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type. A preliminary report. The basal nuclei of Meynert are the principal sources of cholinergic innervation of the cerebral cortex. It has been hypothesized that the depressed cortical glucose metabolic activity in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) may result primarily from diminished activity and loss of these cells. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that electrical stimulation of the basal nuclei would bring about clinical improvement and increase cortical glucose metabolic activity in SDAT. An electrode was implanted in September 1984 into the left basal nucleus of a 74-year-old man with SDAT. Repetitive cycles of stimulation for 9 months since have had no definite effect clinically but a follow-up positron emission tomography scan shows that cortical glucose metabolic activity was preserved in the ipsilateral temporal and parietal lobes while it declined elsewhere in the cortex."}
{"id": "3878390", "title": "Positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose differentiates normal pressure hydrocephalus from Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose differentiates normal pressure hydrocephalus from Alzheimer-type dementia. Because diagnostic criteria for normal pressure hydrocephalus have not been clearly determined, it is often difficult to differentiate patients with this potentially treatable condition from those with Alzheimer-type dementia. We have studied three patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus, 17 patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, and seven healthy elderly controls using positron emission tomography and [18F]Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). Both Alzheimer-type dementia and normal pressure hydrocephalus groups showed lower cortical rates of FDG utilisation than controls. However, the patterns of metabolic abnormality were distinctly different in the two dementia groups, with Alzheimer-type dementia subjects demonstrating bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism while normal pressure hydrocephalus subjects showed globally diminished glucose use."}
{"id": "3876136", "title": "Subcortical dementia. Frontal cortex hypometabolism detected by positron tomography in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Subcortical dementia. Frontal cortex hypometabolism detected by positron tomography in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. The dementia associated with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is considered to be subcortical because the cerebral cortex, unlike the subcortical structures, is usually free from major neuropathological lesions; the characteristic symptoms point to a dysfunction of the prefrontal lobe. The regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMR Glu) was studied by positron emission tomography and 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose18FDG in 6 patients presumed to have PSP and was compared with values found in 8 control subjects of similar age. The results obtained showed a highly significant rCMR Glu decrease in the prefrontal cortex of our patients. The loss of several subcortical afferents to prefrontal cortex may be responsible for the frontal cortical hypometabolism present in PSP."}
{"id": "3872604", "title": "Differences in lateral hemispheric asymmetries of glucose utilization between early- and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "Differences in lateral hemispheric asymmetries of glucose utilization between early- and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia. Positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose revealed greater right than left hemispheric impairment of cortical glucose metabolism in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease who were younger than 65 but not in those over 65. This asymmetry was related to poor visuospatial performance."}
{"id": "3872424", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: anterior-posterior and lateral hemispheric alterations in cortical glucose utilization.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: anterior-posterior and lateral hemispheric alterations in cortical glucose utilization. We performed dynamic positron emission tomographic studies with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in 17 subjects with presumed Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 7 healthy aged subjects. Glucose metabolism was depressed by 27% in temporal-parietal cortex of the AD group, as compared to healthy aged controls. This focal impairment in temporal-parietal glucose use was found in all AD subjects. In addition, the AD group showed a striking lateral asymmetry of cortical metabolism not favoring either hemisphere, which has not been previously reported. Relationships between these focal changes and behavioral features of the illness were demonstrated. These results have important implications for the diagnosis and perhaps the etiology of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "3872130", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow, cerebral oxygen metabolism, cerebral glucose metabolism, and tissue pH in human acute cerebral infarction using positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow, cerebral oxygen metabolism, cerebral glucose metabolism, and tissue pH in human acute cerebral infarction using positron emission tomography]. It is necessary for treatment and deciding prognosis to make clear about changes of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in acute cerebral infarction. This preliminary PET study was designed to investigate physiological and biochemical changes in acute cerebral infarction by positron emission tomography (PET). PET studies were performed in six patients with acute cerebral infarction within 48 hours after onset of stroke using continuous inhalation of C15O2 for cerebral blood flow (CBF), 15O2 for cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2), 11CO for cerebral blood volume, the intravenous injection of 11C-dimethyloxazolidinedione for tissue pH and the intravenous injection of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose for cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRGlu). Metabolic coupling index (MCI) image was made from CBF image and CMRGlu image to investigate relation between CBF and CMRGlu. Also oxygen glucose index (OGI) image was made from CMRO2 image and CMRGlu image to investigate relation between CMRO2 and CMRGlu. Preliminary results demonstrate that reduction of CBF, CMRO2, and CMRGlu in the affected cortex except for reperfusion case. Increase of OER was recognized four of six cases. Patterns of MCI and OGI in the cortex which CMRO2 value is less than 65 mumol/100 g/min were different from those in the cortex which CMRO2 value is more than 65. MCI of the affected cortex (CMRO2 less than 65) decreased relative to that of the cortex (CMRO2 greater than or equal to 65). OGI of the affected cortex (CMRO2 less than 65) significantly decreased in comparison with that of the cortex (CMRO2 greater than or equal to 65).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3161165", "title": "Local cerebral glucose utilization in symptomatic and presymptomatic Huntington's disease.", "content": "Local cerebral glucose utilization in symptomatic and presymptomatic Huntington's disease. Patterns of local cerebral glucose utilization were measured with positron emission CT using the 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose method in 13 patients with HD, 15 subjects at risk for HD, and control subjects. These data were compared with CT measures of cerebral atrophy, age, and duration and severity of symptoms. The results indicate that in HD there is a characteristic decrease in glucose utilization in the caudate and putamen and that this local hypometabolism appears early and precedes bulk tissue loss. In contrast to demented patients with Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease, in these HD patients glucose utilization typically was normal throughout the rest of the brain, regardless of the severity of symptoms and despite apparent shrinkage of brain tissue. Our results indicate that the caudate is hypometabolic in some asymptomatic persons who are carriers of the autosomal-dominant gene for HD."}
{"id": "6742165", "title": "Local cerebral metabolic rates of glucose in movement and language disorders from positron tomography.", "content": "Local cerebral metabolic rates of glucose in movement and language disorders from positron tomography. Positron-computed tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose to measure glucose metabolism has shown changes in the brain distant to a focal area of infarction, demonstrating that what appears as a focal abnormality represents a more widespread functional process. Several approaches are presented to better understand quantitative metabolic data and focus on caudate and basal ganglia function. Area-to-area correlations in Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases showed decreases in the number of cortical relationships compared with control subjects, suggesting that the basal ganglia are involved with the ability of cortical regions to function together. In aphasia, caudate metabolism correlated with several language measures that suggested a role in some undefined basic process, seemingly related to Broca's area function. The studies presented suggest that the caudate may involve integrating the processing of language and cognition with the execution of the resulting response. Motor and cognitive function seem related to similar and overlapping brain systems. The disruption of such systems may result in loss of both cognitive and motor aspects of a function."}
{"id": "6611118", "title": "Regional cortical dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease as determined by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Regional cortical dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease as determined by positron emission tomography. Local cerebral glucose metabolism and psychometric function were compared in 17 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 5 healthy age-matched controls. Performance on tests of global intellectual function averaged 30 to 45% lower in the Alzheimer's group. Mean cortical glucose metabolism, as determined by positron emission tomography following fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose administration, was reduced by 30% in the Alzheimer's group. There was a significant positive correlation between the degree of overall dementia and the amount of metabolic reduction. The distribution of cortical hypometabolism was not uniform: the posterior parietal lobes and contiguous portions of the posterior temporal and anterior occipital lobes were most severely involved. The frontal cortex was relatively spared. These findings are compatible with the major clinical deficits found in patients with Alzheimer's disease and may help focus future biochemical probes into the pathophysiology of this disease."}
{"id": "6610384", "title": "Patterns of local cerebral glucose utilization determined in Parkinson's disease by the [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose method.", "content": "Patterns of local cerebral glucose utilization determined in Parkinson's disease by the [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose method. [18F]Fluorodeoxyglucose scans were performed on 9 patients with Parkinson's disease and 14 normal subjects. Five patients were restudied after an interval of 3 to 4 years. We found no selective metabolic change in striatum, where dopamine deficit is known to be greatest, in affected patients; cerebral glucose metabolism was reduced uniformly throughout the parkinsonian brain (average 18% decrease). With increased severity of bradykinesia and the development of mild to moderate dementia, global brain metabolism in Parkinson's disease decreased further. In one moderately demented patient with Parkinson's disease, severe parietal cortex hypometabolism was found, similar to that seen in Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, mildly to moderately demented patients with Huntington's disease have marked caudate hypometabolism, but cerebral glucose metabolism is normal elsewhere. It appears that in addition to the well-known neurotransmitter loss in the nigrostriatal system, there is an abnormal metabolic process involving neurons throughout the parkinsonian brain."}
{"id": "6381559", "title": "Bitemporal hypometabolism in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease measured by positron emission tomography with [18F]-2-fluorodeoxyglucose.", "content": "Bitemporal hypometabolism in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease measured by positron emission tomography with [18F]-2-fluorodeoxyglucose. It is well established that Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is caused by a slow infectious agent similar to the scrapie prion. However, the pathogenesis of this infection is poorly understood. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed on a 54-year-old man with autopsy confirmed CJD using [18F]-2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and the Donner 280-crystal tomograph. Temporal lobe hypometabolism with hemispheric asymmetry was observed. These findings are similar to those previously obtained in PET-FDG studies of patients with clinically defined Alzheimer disease (AD). The similarities in the regional metabolic alterations between CJD and AD provide additional evidence for the possibility that AD may be caused by a slow infectious prion."}
{"id": "6335378", "title": "Cortical abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cortical abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism, an index of neuronal activity, was compared in 20 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 8 age-matched normal volunteers by positron emission tomography following [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose administration. Overall cortical glucose utilization in the Alzheimer's group was 10 to 49% below that of control individuals. The posterior parietal cortex and contiguous portions of posterior temporal and anterior occipital lobes were most severely affected; frontal cortex was relatively spared. This pattern of cortical involvement is consistent with the major clinical features of Alzheimer's disease. Comparison of patients with early and more advanced dementia suggested that a substantial decline in glucose metabolism occurs before cognitive impairment becomes evident; once the patient is symptomatic, however, small additional metabolic decrements are associated with a marked deterioration in intellectual function."}
{"id": "6333862", "title": "Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale performance. Cortical localization by fluorodeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography.", "content": "Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale performance. Cortical localization by fluorodeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography. We compared local cerebral glucose metabolism, as determined by positron emission tomography following administration of fluorodeoxyglucose F 18, with Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) scores in 22 right-handed persons. Five study subjects were normal volunteers and the remainder had Alzheimer's disease. Subtest scores within the verbal IQ group or the performance IQ group were generally highly interrelated; there was usually no correlation between the verbal and performance subtests. The cortical distribution of regions in which glucose metabolism was most closely associated with verbal subtest scores generally centered in the left parasylvian area. In contrast, scores on the performance subtests mainly localized to the right posterior parietal region. Most WAIS subtests thus appeared to evaluate primarily either verbal or visuospatial cognitive functions and either left parasylvian or right posteroparietal cortical activity."}
{"id": "6331840", "title": "[Positron emission tomographic studies using C-11-glucose in normal aging and cerebrovascular dementia].", "content": "[Positron emission tomographic studies using C-11-glucose in normal aging and cerebrovascular dementia]. Seven normal volunteers and 11 patients with cerebrovascular dementia were studied about the relations between effect of aging, severity of dementia, cerebral glucose metabolism and metabolic response to verbal stimuli by positron emission tomography (PET) using C-11-glucose administered orally. The diagnosis of cerebrovascular dementia was done according to the Hachinski's ischemic score and X-ray CT findings, and the severity of dementia was classified according to the DR scale originated by Hasegawa. PET scanning started at 10 minutes and ended at 50 minutes after administration of C-11-glucose, and bloods were sampled at every 5-10 minutes during the PET scanning . Stimulation studies were performed after 3 or 7 days from control studies. An educational broadcasting program was used as the verbal stimuli. Regional distribution of glycogenic metabolites (RDGM: mg/100 g brain), which was a semi-quantitation of the pool of glycogenic metabolites mainly amino acids, were calculated. The RDGM values in elder normal subjects were significantly low compared with young normal subjects in frontal cortex (p less than 0.05). The decline in frontal cortex metabolism could have been caused by the morphological changes in the course of aging. In temporal cortex, there was no significance between two groups. RDGM increased significantly respond to the verbal stimuli in frontal and temporal cortex both young and elder normal subjects. The RDGM values in vascular dementias were significantly low (p less than 0.001) compared with elder normal subjects' in frontal and temporal cortex. Significant difference existed between mild and severe dementia in frontal cortex (p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6234856", "title": "Patterns of cerebral glucose utilization in Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.", "content": "Patterns of cerebral glucose utilization in Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. Patterns of local cerebral glucose utilization were measured with positron emission tomography using the fluorine-18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG) method in 8 patients with Parkinson's disease, in 13 patients with Huntington's disease, in 15 subjects at risk for Huntington's disease, and in aged-matched normal control subjects. On the average, global cerebral metabolism in patients with Parkinson's disease was moderately reduced (20%), but the relative distribution of glucose utilization throughout the brain in these patients was normal. These results support the conclusion that alterations of the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease have no major selective effect on the metabolism of particular cerebral regions. In Huntington's disease, however, there was a characteristic decrease in glucose utilization in the caudate nuclei and putamen, and this local hypometabolism appeared early and preceded bulk tissue loss. In patients with Huntington's disease, glucose utilization typically was normal throughout the rest of the brain, regardless of the severity of symptoms and despite the apparent shrinkage of brain tissue. The results also suggest the possibility that the caudate nuclei may be hypometabolic in some asymptomatic subjects who are potential carriers of the autosomal dominant gene for Huntington's disease."}
{"id": "6605139", "title": "The fluorodeoxyglucose 18F scan in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "The fluorodeoxyglucose 18F scan in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia. Patients with Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia were studied with scans using fluorodeoxyglucose tagged with fluorine 18. The rates of glucose metabolism were calculated. Patients with Alzheimer's dementia showed decreased metabolism in all areas of the brain but with preferential sparing of the primary motor and sensory cortex. Patients with multi-infarct dementia also had global reductions in glucose metabolic rates when compared with normal control subjects, but the areas of hypometabolism were focal and asymmetric."}
{"id": "6603596", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: focal cortical changes shown by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: focal cortical changes shown by positron emission tomography. Local rates of cortical glucose metabolism were estimated by positron emission tomography in 13 right-handed patients with Alzheimer's disease. Individuals with disproportionate failure of language function had markedly diminished metabolism in the left frontal, temporal, and parietal regions. Patients with predominant visuo-constructive dysfunction evidenced a hypometabolic focus in the right parietal cortex. Patients with memory failure as the most apparent feature had no significant metabolic asymmetry in cortical regions. In all subjects, verbal competency generally correlated with metabolic activity in the left frontal and temporal areas, while visuo-constructive test performance was linked to glucose utilization in the right parietal lobe."}
{"id": "6224294", "title": "Down's syndrome in adults: brain metabolism.", "content": "Down's syndrome in adults: brain metabolism. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose, as measured with positron emission tomography and fluorine-18-labeled 2-deoxy-D-glucose, was significantly higher in four healthy young subjects with trisomy 21 syndrome (Down's syndrome) than the mean rate in healthy young controls. The rate of cerebral glucose utilization in the frontal lobe of a 51-year-old subject with Down's syndrome was significantly lower than the rate in the young subjects with this syndrome, but approximated the rate in middle-aged controls. Thus glucose utilization by the brain appears to be excessive in young adults with Down's syndrome but may decline with age in some brain regions."}
{"id": "6219602", "title": "Positron computed tomography for studies of myocardial and cerebral function.", "content": "Positron computed tomography for studies of myocardial and cerebral function. Positron computed tomography is a noninvasive medical imaging technique. Biologically active, radiolabeled compounds are administered intravenously to patients and the distribution of the radioactivity is quantitatively measured. By using appropriate mathematical models and labeled compounds, quantitative measurements of local metabolism, blood flow and volume, protein synthesis, transport, receptor binding, drug kinetics, and concentrations can be obtained noninvasively. This technique goes beyond medical imaging; it allows local analytic assays of biochemical reactions. In the heart, the technique measures local blood flow as well as myocardial free fatty acid and glucose metabolism, and can clinically evaluate patients with ischemic heart disease or cardiomyopathies. In the brain, positron computed tomography can be used to examine alterations in blood flow and metabolism including ischemia and degenerative disorders (Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease), cerebral tumors, and epilepsy. In normal persons, positron computed tomography shows cerebral activations resulting from physiologic stimulation (auditory and visual)."}
{"id": "6983979", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in aging and senile dementia as determined by 18F-deoxyglucose and positron emission tomography.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism in aging and senile dementia as determined by 18F-deoxyglucose and positron emission tomography."}
{"id": "6217782", "title": "Cerebral metabolism and atrophy in Huntington's disease determined by 18FDG and computed tomographic scan.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism and atrophy in Huntington's disease determined by 18FDG and computed tomographic scan. Patterns of local cerebral glucose utilization were measured with positron emission, computed tomography using the 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose method in 13 patients with Huntington's disease (HD), 15 subjects at risk for HD, and 40 normal control subjects. These data were compared with computed tomographic measures of cerebral atrophy, with age, and with duration and severity of symptoms. The results indicate that in HD there is a characteristic decrease in glucose utilization in the caudate and putamen and that this local hypometabolism appears early and precedes bulk tissue loss. In contrast to patients with senile dementia, in these HD patients glucose utilization typically was normal throughout the rest of the brain, regardless of the severity of symptoms and despite apparent shrinkage of brain tissue. Our results suggest the possibility that the caudate may be hypometabolic in some asymptomatic subjects who are potential carriers of the autosomal dominant gene for HD."}
