{"id": "15621921", "title": "Multiple carpometacarpal dislocations and an ipsilateral scapho-trapezium-trapezoid fracture-dislocation: a rare pattern of injury.", "content": "Multiple carpometacarpal dislocations and an ipsilateral scapho-trapezium-trapezoid fracture-dislocation: a rare pattern of injury. We report a rare case of simultaneous dorsal dislocation of 4 ulnar carpometacarpal joints and dorsoradial dislocation of the trapezium with an associated fracture of the scaphoid tuberosity. The injuries were diagnosed early and treated successfully with closed reduction and transfixation using Kirschner wires. The functional results were excellent at 17-month follow-up."}
{"id": "16365499", "title": "Greater arc injury of the wrist with fractured lunate bone: a case report.", "content": "Greater arc injury of the wrist with fractured lunate bone: a case report. Carpal dislocation and fracture dislocation are uncommon and difficult to treat. Early diagnosis and treatment of such injuries are necessary to prevent progressive carpal instability and traumatic arthritis. Perilunate fracture dislocation is a combination of ligamentous and osseous injuries that involve the 'greater arc' of the perilunate. Despite being severe, these injuries often go unrecognised in the emergency department, leading to delayed diagnosis and treatment. We present a case of greater arc injury of the right wrist with fractures of the lunate and ulnar styloid without perilunate dislocation. This pattern of injury cannot be classified in the available literature on greater arc injury."}
{"id": "15029036", "title": "[Magnetic resonance in osteoarticular exploration].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance in osteoarticular exploration]. A major role in imaging of the locomotor apparatus. Today, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has replaced invasive explorations such as arthrography or saccoradiculography. However, x-rays and scans must often be performed beforehand. Indisputable indications. MRI is crucial in affections of the spongy bone (tumours, osteonecrosis, algodystrophy, fatigue fractures.) and the soft parts (tumours, myositis, fasciitis.). Depending on the situation. The indications for MRI must be weighed versus a scan or arthro-scan in many situations. In the case of strong suspicion of an internal articular disorder, the arthro-scan currently more precise must be preferred. In cases in which there is little clinical orientation, the MRI is justified because of its capacity for global articular and abarticular exploration."}
{"id": "22745092", "title": "Synovial fringe (plica) of scapho-trapezial joint following trauma.", "content": "Synovial fringe (plica) of scapho-trapezial joint following trauma. We herein present a case of radial wrist pain following trauma. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large area of abnormal soft tissue in the scapho-trapezial joint. The patient was treated successfully by complete resection of the soft tissue. The soft tissue was diagnosed to be synovial fringe based on a histological study. Synovial fringe is frequently reported as a cause of knee and elbow pain, however, it is a rare cause of wrist pain at the scapho-trapezial joint."}
{"id": "22745091", "title": "Concomitant avascular necrosis of the scaphoid and lunate.", "content": "Concomitant avascular necrosis of the scaphoid and lunate. Simultaneous avascular necrosis of multiple carpal bones is rare. Concomitant avascular necrosis of scaphoid and lunate has been reported only once. We report one more case of this rare condition which can be a cause of wrist pain. Steroid intake is a known risk factor for avascular necrosis but in our case the patient had been taking herbal medicines for joint pain the composition of which was not known. Probably the presence of steroid in these medicines was the cause of avascular necrosis in this case."}
{"id": "22733954", "title": "Predictors of fracture following suspected injury to the scaphoid.", "content": "Predictors of fracture following suspected injury to the scaphoid. A prospective study was performed to develop a clinical prediction rule that incorporated demographic and clinical factors predictive of a fracture of the scaphoid. Of 260 consecutive patients with a clinically suspected or radiologically confirmed scaphoid fracture, 223 returned for evaluation two weeks after injury and formed the basis of our analysis. Patients were evaluated within 72 hours of injury and at approximately two and six weeks after injury using clinical assessment and standard radiographs. Demographic data and the results of seven specific tests in the clinical examination were recorded. There were 116 (52%) men and their mean age was 33 years (13 to 95; SD 17.9). In 62 patients (28%) a scaphoid fracture was confirmed. A logistic regression model identified male gender (p = 0.002), sports injury (p = 0.004), anatomical snuff box pain on ulnar deviation of the wrist within 72 hours of injury (p < 0.001), and scaphoid tubercle tenderness at two weeks (p < 0.001) as independent predictors of fracture. All patients with no pain at the anatomical snuff box on ulnar deviation of the wrist within 72 hours of injury did not have a fracture (n = 72, 32%). With four independently significant factors positive, the risk of fracture was 91%. Our study has demonstrated that clinical prediction rules have a considerable influence on the probability of a suspected scaphoid fracture. This will help improve the use of supplementary investigations where the diagnosis remains in doubt."}
{"id": "22653998", "title": "Commentary on 'Early CT for suspected occult scaphoid fractures' by Stevenson et al. J Hand Surg Eur. 2012, 37: 447-51.", "content": "Commentary on 'Early CT for suspected occult scaphoid fractures' by Stevenson et al. J Hand Surg Eur. 2012, 37: 447-51."}
{"id": "22648431", "title": "Imaging and treatment of scaphoid fractures and their complications.", "content": "Imaging and treatment of scaphoid fractures and their complications. The scaphoid is the most commonly fractured carpal bone, with frequent complications that are predisposed by its anatomical location, anatomical configuration (shape and length), and vascular supply. The most common mechanism of injury is a fall onto an outstretched hand. Imaging plays a significant role in the initial evaluation and treatment of scaphoid fractures and their complications. Radiography should be the first imaging modality in the initial evaluation and follow-up of scaphoid fractures. Computed tomography with its superb spatial resolution enables better visualization and characterization of the fracture line, and the amount of displacement and angulation of the fracture fragments. Using the metal reduction artifact with computed tomography allows good follow-up of scaphoid fractures despite surgical hardware. Magnetic resonance imaging without contrast is the imaging modality of choice for depiction of radiographically occult scaphoid fracture, bone contusion, and associated soft tissue injury; contrast-enhanced imaging aids assessment of scaphoid fracture nonunion, osteonecrosis, fracture healing after bone grafting, and revitalization of the necrotic bone after bone grafting. Proper identification and classification of scaphoid fracture and its complications is necessary for appropriate treatment. This article describes the normal anatomy, mechanism of injury, and classification of stable and unstable fractures, together with the imaging and treatment algorithm of scaphoid fractures and their complications with an emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "22648427", "title": "Pathology of extrinsic ligaments: a pictorial essay.", "content": "Pathology of extrinsic ligaments: a pictorial essay. The role of the extrinsic ligaments, together with the intrinsic ligaments, appears to be much more important than previously thought in the setting of carpal stability. The anatomy and pathology of the extrinsic wrist ligaments is complex. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with thin slices is essential for visualization. This article describes the pathological appearance of the extrinsic palmar and dorsal radiocarpal and ulnocarpal ligaments on MRI, correlated with arthroscopy (performed by two skilled hand surgeons), clinical findings, and follow-up. High-resolution MRI, especially using isotropic three-dimensional sequences with orthogonal multiplanar reconstructions on 3T MR systems, allows detailed depiction of many of the extrinsic ligaments affected in carpal injuries. Recognition of ligament abnormalities is improved by intra-articular or intravenous injection of contrast before the examination. Both techniques may help to determine the precise localization, size, and extent of dorsal and palmar radiocarpal and ulnocarpal ligament lesions. Further experience with these techniques is needed to define the place of MRI in the management of traumatic wrist injuries."}
{"id": "22633223", "title": "Factors associated with arthroscopically determined scaphoid fracture displacement and instability.", "content": "Factors associated with arthroscopically determined scaphoid fracture displacement and instability. To identify factors associated with arthroscopically diagnosed scaphoid fracture displacement and instability. This was a secondary use of data from 2 prospective cohort studies. The studies included 58 consecutive adult patients with a scaphoid fracture who elected arthroscopy-assisted operative fracture treatment: some for displacement, some as part of a prospective protocol, and others to avoid a cast. All patients had preoperative computed tomography with reconstructions in planes defined by the long axis of the scaphoid. Arthroscopy revealed 38 unstable fractures (movement between fracture fragments; 66%), 27 of which were also displaced. All arthroscopically determined displaced fractures were unstable, and 11 of the 31 arthroscopically determined, nondisplaced fractures were unstable. There was a significant correlation between radiographic comminution (more than 2 fracture fragments) and arthroscopically determined displacement and instability. Radiographic comminution is associated with displacement and instability as determined by arthroscopy."}
{"id": "22624786", "title": "The anterolateral corner of the radial metaphysis as a source of bone graft for the treatment of scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "The anterolateral corner of the radial metaphysis as a source of bone graft for the treatment of scaphoid nonunion. As a source of corticocancellous grafts for treating scaphoid nonunions, the anterolateral corner of the distal radial metaphysis has several advantages over other alternatives: it provides good-quality corticocancellous bone, it allows one to harvest the graft and treat the scaphoid through the same incision, it does not require general anesthesia, and it has less morbidity than occurs when obtaining the graft from the iliac crest."}
{"id": "22624783", "title": "The durability of the intrascaphoid compression of headless compression screws: in vitro study.", "content": "The durability of the intrascaphoid compression of headless compression screws: in vitro study. To test a new generation of compression screws: the Acumed Acutrak 2 Mini (AA; Acumed, Hillsboro, OR), the Stryker TwinFix (ST; Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI), and the Synthes 3.0 headless compression screw (SH; Synthes, Solothurn, Switzerland). We used 40 fresh-frozen human scaphoids for this study. Bone density was measured. A K-wire was inserted centrally. A perpendicular osteotomy was created in the middle third (Herbert B2 fracture). A custom-made load sensor was placed between the bone fragments. All screws were implanted according to the manufacturers' instructions. The Synthes 2.0 cortical screw (SC), implanted as a lag screw, was used as a reference. The compression force during each experiment was digitally monitored for 12 hours while the data were acquired. The data were analyzed using analysis of variance with the Bonferroni correction. Immediately after screw insertion, ST reached 226 N, followed by AA with 191 N, SH with 137 N, and SC with 72 N. After 12 hours, ST displayed the highest residual compression force, 141 N, followed by AA with 121 N, SH with 78 N, and SC with 32 N. The differences were significant for ST and AA compared to SC. The loss of compression force over 12 hours was 39% for ST, 42% for AA, 49% for SH, and 55% for SC. The new generation of headless compression screws, especially ST and AA, provided significantly higher compression forces after 12 hours, as well as the least loss of compression force over time, in comparison to a classic cortical lag screw. A new generation of headless compression screws, by producing higher compression forces, increase stability at the fracture site and might thereby promote bone healing."}
{"id": "22607839", "title": "[A man with a painful wrist after a fall].", "content": "[A man with a painful wrist after a fall]. A 67-year-old man presented in the emergency department after a fall on his outstretched right hand. Physical examination showed tenderness of the anatomical snuffbox and the dorsal side of the wrist. X-rays of the wrist revealed a perilunate luxation combined with a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "22582365", "title": "Current perspectives on the advantages of 3-T MR imaging of the wrist.", "content": "Current perspectives on the advantages of 3-T MR imaging of the wrist. The use of 3-T magnetic resonance (MR) imaging systems with improved coil designs and high-resolution MR imaging sequences allows visualization of the musculoskeletal anatomy in exquisite detail and accurate characterization of abnormalities both in soft tissues and in bone. Current high-field-strength MR systems offer particular advantages for diagnostic imaging of the small joints of the extremities, especially the wrists, where multiple overlapping soft-tissue structures may be visually inseparable at lower field strengths because of limited contrast resolution. Diagnostic accuracy obtained with 3-T MR imaging of the wrist performed with an acquisition protocol that includes three-dimensional and proton density-weighted imaging sequences is nearly commensurate with that obtained with MR arthrography. Abnormalities of the ligaments, tendons, cartilage, nerves, blood vessels, and bone are clearly depicted, allowing accurate characterization of perforations, tears, and fractures, as well as various soft-tissue and intraosseous lesions (eg, ganglion cysts), vascular malformations, aneurysms, and neuropathies."}
{"id": "22551952", "title": "Incidence of bilateral scapholunate dissociation in symptomatic and asymptomatic wrists.", "content": "Incidence of bilateral scapholunate dissociation in symptomatic and asymptomatic wrists. Scapholunate dissociation (SLD) is thought to be a common cause of both acute and chronic wrist pain. Classically, this condition is attributed to a traumatic event and is thought to inevitably lead to the development of degenerative arthritis. Bilateral findings should thus be infrequent. The purpose of the present study was to determine the incidence of bilateral radiographic SLD and associated arthritic changes. Demographic, radiographic, and clinical data were obtained from 124 patients with abnormal x-ray findings in at least 1 wrist. Radiographs reviewed included posteroanterior, lateral, and Moneim views of both symptomatic and asymptomatic wrists. Pathology was defined as a scapholunate gap \u2265 5 mm and/or a scapholunate angle \u2265 60\u00b0. Arthritic changes were assessed. A majority of the 124 patients (51%) were unable to recall any specific injury to their wrist. On the symptomatic side, 101 (81%) patients had a pathologic measurement for their scapholunate gap, and 109 (88%) had an abnormal angle measurement. On the asymptomatic side, 64 (52%) of the gap measurements and 87 (70%) of the angle measurements were pathologic. Ninety-nine patients (80%) had abnormal radiographic findings bilaterally for at least 1 variable on each side. Only 13 patients (11%) had a clinical instability pattern typical of SLD. Half the patients had radiographic degenerative changes at presentation. Bilateral radiographic SLD is much more common than previously assumed, is often asymptomatic, and does not inevitably lead to degenerative arthritis. These findings should call into question the assumption of a uniquely traumatic etiology. Further, most patients presented with pathologies unrelated to the scapholunate articulation. Surgical intervention chosen on the basis of radiologic findings, in the absence of clinical instability, might not be the best course of action, unless criteria are established to determine which patients eventually develop arthritic changes or become symptomatic. Therapeutic III."}
{"id": "22541157", "title": "Management of scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Management of scaphoid nonunion. The primary risk factor for nonunion of the scaphoid is displacement/instability, but delayed or missed diagnosis, inadequate treatment, fracture location, and blood supply are also risk factors. Untreated nonunion leads to degenerative wrist arthritis-the so-called scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse wrist. However, the correlation of symptoms and disease is poor; the true \"natural history\" is debatable because we evaluate only symptomatic patients presenting for treatment. It is not clear that surgery can change the natural history, even if union is attained. The diagnosis of nonunion is made on radiographs, but computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging scans can be useful to assess deformity and blood supply. Treatment options vary from percutaneous fixation to open reduction and internal fixation with vascularized or nonvascularized bone grafting to salvage procedures involving excision and/or arthrodesis of carpals."}
{"id": "22510119", "title": "Review of treatment of acute scaphoid fractures: R1.", "content": "Review of treatment of acute scaphoid fractures: R1. Scaphoid fractures are common. Clinical suspicion and early diagnosis and treatment are vital in order to avoid complications such as avascular necrosis. The management of these fractures depends on fracture characteristics, specifically the degree of displacement. With consideration of patient factors, such as occupation, the treatment can be non-operative or operative. There has been much debate in the recent literature regarding the best management of these fractures. The purpose of this review was to identify the current evidence for non-operative and operative treatment. Undisplaced and minimally displaced fractures can be managed non-operatively with a scaphoid cast. Surgical treatment is used for fractures with displacement of >1 mm."}
{"id": "22496184", "title": "Three-dimensional deformity analysis of malunited distal radius fractures and their influence on wrist and forearm motion.", "content": "Three-dimensional deformity analysis of malunited distal radius fractures and their influence on wrist and forearm motion. Little information exists about three-dimensional (3-D) deformity patterns of malunited distal radius fractures including axial deformity. The current study aimed to clarify the 3-D deformity pattern of malunited distal radius fractures and reveal the influence of osseous deformities, including axial rotation deformity, on wrist and forearm motion. The deformity of 20 dorsally tilted malunions were evaluated using 3-D computer models created from CT data, and correlations between deformity components and range of motion were assessed. The 3-D deformity analysis showed that axial malalignment in pronation, which showed a correlation with the degree of radial tilt deformity, was very common. A radial tilt deformity of > 5\u00b0 was observed in only 45% of cases. Although the range of wrist flexion and extension showed a correlation with dorsal tilt deformity, the range of forearm pronation and supination did not correlate with distal radius deformities."}
{"id": "22480506", "title": "Primary hydatid cyst of the scaphoid: case report.", "content": "Primary hydatid cyst of the scaphoid: case report. Hydatid cyst caused by Echinococcus granulosus is a parasitic disease that can affect different organs. It is difficult to diagnose and has a tendency to recur. Primary bone involvement occurs in 0.5% to 4.0% of all patients with hydatid cysts. We present a 31-year-old woman with a primary hydatid cyst in the left scaphoid. Despite the availability of advanced imaging and laboratory investigation modalities (such as magnetic resonance imaging and serological studies) to make an adequate differential diagnosis of a cystic lesion in our case, intraoperative clinical suspicion led to the diagnosis. This was followed by a successful outcome without recurrence after 12 months."}
{"id": "22480499", "title": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic analysis of 11 scaphoid waist nonunions.", "content": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic analysis of 11 scaphoid waist nonunions. To virtually assess nonunions of the scaphoid waist using 3-dimensional computed tomography (CT) reconstruction for the amount of displacement of the distal fragment and the postfracture reduction position using the intact opposite scaphoid for reference. We generated 3-dimensional reconstructions for 11 nonunions of the scaphoid waist and the contralateral intact scaphoids based on CT. The mean age of the patients was 25 years and the time from injury to the CT scan was 2.4 years. We used the mirrored 3-dimensional model of the healthy scaphoid to guide virtual reduction of the nonunion and calculated the amount of displacement of the distal pole fragment from prereduction to postreduction. We compared the results with the intrascaphoid angles calculated using single CT slices. The scaphoid nonunions showed a mean flexion deformity of 23\u00b0, an ulnar deviation of 5\u00b0, and a pronation deformity of 10\u00b0. Mean translation was 0.9 mm volarward, 0.2 mm radialward, and 3.3 mm distalward. After reduction, all scaphoids showed a bony overlap on the dorsoradial side; the mean volume of this region was 3% of total bone volume. There was no correlation between the degree of displacement and the intrascaphoid angle measurements. Preoperative planning for scaphoid reconstruction is usually performed using conventional radiographs and single CT slices. However, by synthesizing the information from the CT into a 3-dimensional reconstruction, an exact analysis is possible. This method also allows quantification of prosupination displacement. The postreduction area of dorsal bone overlap may be due to appositional callus formation. Simple volar opening of the scaphoid allows correction of angulation deformities but results in lengthening of the scaphoid. Correct reduction of the scaphoid fragments is often only possible if the dorsal appositional callus is resected."}
{"id": "22448553", "title": "[Sore wrist].", "content": "[Sore wrist]. A patient with a sore, stiff and swollen wrist should be referred to basic examination at the first consultation visit. Nontraumatic causes such as joint inflammation, tumors and avascular necrosis require urgent treatment. Symptomatic treatment and follow-up observation can be considered, if the anamnesis does not reveal anything indicative of severe joint disease or significant injury, and no clear-cut abnormalities are found in the wrist. Triangular fibrocartilage complex injuries and scaphoid/lunate ligament tear are the most common ligament injuries requiring surgical treatment."}
{"id": "22441500", "title": "Isolated tarsal navicular fracture dislocation: a case report.", "content": "Isolated tarsal navicular fracture dislocation: a case report. Injuries to the midtarsal joints are rare. They occur in the form of various combinations such as fracture, fracture subluxation, and fracture dislocation. The largest series of 71 cases has been reported by Main and Jowett in 1975. Isolated tarsal navicular dislocations are rare injuries. Being rare, these injuries remain poorly understood. Only few case reports exist, which describe the probable mechanism of injury and optimal treatment. Of the few case reports, only one describes closed reduction with external fixator and percutaneous fixation as the treatment modality. This case report emphasizes the use of external fixation with pins in the calcaneum and not in talus as described by the earlier report. Therapeutic, Level IV."}
{"id": "22388362", "title": "Non-union of isolated displaced triquetral body fracture--a case report.", "content": "Non-union of isolated displaced triquetral body fracture--a case report. Triquetral fractures are the second most common carpal fractures. Triquetral body fractures are the less common type of triquetral fractures but they can be missed on plain radiographs and a non-union can be associated with considerable morbidity and reduction in functional activities. We report a unique case of displaced isolated triquetral body fracture that was initially missed on plain radiographs and resulted in non-union. The fracture non-union was diagnosed on magnetic resonance imaging and was treated successfully with open reduction and internal fixation using compression screws, without bone grafting, and early mobilisation of the wrist allowing a return to premorbid activity levels. To our knowledge, this has not been previously described in the literature. We advocate early clinical suspicion of triquetral fractures in patients with persistent ulnar-sided wrist pain following trauma, and early evaluation using computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "22386473", "title": "Demographic and medical parameters in the development of complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS1): prospective study on 596 patients with a fracture.", "content": "Demographic and medical parameters in the development of complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS1): prospective study on 596 patients with a fracture. Limited data are available on the incidence of complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS1) and on demographic and medical risk factors for the development of CRPS1. The objective of this study was to investigate the incidence of CRPS1 in patients with a fracture using 3 sets of diagnostic criteria and to evaluate the association between demographic/medical factors and the development of CRPS1 diagnosed with the Harden and Bruehl criteria. A prospective multicenter cohort study of 596 patients (ages 18 years and older) with a single fracture of the wrist, scaphoid, ankle, or metatarsal V, recruited patients from the emergency rooms of 3 Dutch hospitals. Of the 596 participants, 42 (7.0%) were diagnosed with CRPS1 according to the Harden and Bruehl criteria, 289 (48.5%) according to the International Association for the Study of Pain criteria, and 127 (21.3%) according to the criteria of Veldman. An analysis of the medical and demographic differences revealed that patients in whom CRPS1 later developed more often had intra-articular fractures, fracture dislocations, rheumatoid arthritis, or musculoskeletal comorbidities. An ankle fracture, dislocation, and an intra-articular fracture contributed significantly to the prediction of the development of CRPS1. No CRPS1 patients were symptom free at 12 months (T3). At baseline, patients with CRPS1 had significantly more pain than patients without CRPS1 (P<.001). The incidence of the diagnosis of CRPS1 after a single fracture depends to a large extent on the diagnostic criteria used. After a fracture, 7% of the patients developed CRPS1 and none of the patients were free of symptoms at 1-year follow-up."}
{"id": "22381947", "title": "Three-dimensional assessment of bilateral symmetry of the radius and ulna for planning corrective surgeries.", "content": "Three-dimensional assessment of bilateral symmetry of the radius and ulna for planning corrective surgeries. The contralateral unaffected side is often used as a reference in planning a corrective osteotomy of a malunited distal radius. Two-dimensional radiographs have proven unreliable in assessing bilateral symmetry, so we assessed 3-dimensional configurations to assess bilateral symmetry. We investigated bilateral symmetry using 3-dimensional imaging techniques. A total of 20 healthy volunteers without previous wrist injury underwent a volumetric computed tomography of both forearms. The left radius and ulna were segmented to create virtual 3-dimensional models of these bones. We selected a distal part and a larger proximal part from these bones and matched them with a mirrored computed tomographic image of the contralateral side. This allowed us to calculate the relative displacements (\u0394x, \u0394y, \u0394z) and rotations (\u0394\u03c6x, \u0394\u03c6y, \u0394\u03c6z) for aligning the left bone with the right bone segments. We investigated the relation between longitudinal length differences in radiuses and ulnas. Relative differences of the radiuses were (\u0394x, \u0394y, \u0394z): -0.81 \u00b1 1.22 mm, -0.01 \u00b1 0.64 mm, and 2.63 \u00b1 2.03 mm; and (\u0394\u03c6x, \u0394\u03c6y, \u0394\u03c6z): 0.13\u00b0 \u00b1 1.00\u00b0, -0.60\u00b0 \u00b1 1.35\u00b0, and 0.53\u00b0 \u00b1 5.00\u00b0. The same parameters for the ulna were (\u0394x, \u0394y, \u0394z): -0.22 \u00b1 0.82 mm, 0.52 \u00b1 0.99 mm, 2.08 \u00b1 2.33 mm; and (\u0394\u03c6x, \u0394\u03c6y, \u0394\u03c6z): -0.56\u00b0 \u00b1 0.96\u00b0, -0.71\u00b0 \u00b1 1.51\u00b0, and -2.61\u00b0 \u00b1 5.58\u00b0. There is a strong relation between absolute length differences (\u0394z) between the radiuses and ulnas of individuals. We observed substantial length and rotational differences around the longitudinal bone axis in healthy individuals. Surgical planning using the unaffected side as a reference may not be as useful as previously assumed. However, including the length difference of the adjacent forearm bones can be useful in improving length correction in computer-assisted planning of radius or ulna osteotomies and in other reconstructive surgery procedures. Bilateral symmetry is important in reconstructive surgery procedures where the contralateral unaffected side is often used as a reference for planning and evaluation."}
{"id": "22321439", "title": "Incidence and characteristics of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fractures.", "content": "Incidence and characteristics of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fractures. To investigate the incidence and characteristics of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fractures and to determine the risk factors for this combination. We retrospectively analyzed 161 consecutive patients with 170 distal radius fractures who were treated between 2007 and 2011. Posteroanterior, lateral, and oblique radiographs of the wrist were examined, as were computed tomography scans when available. We evaluated the incidence and characteristics of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fractures and the patient factors of gender, age, AO/ASIF classification, and energy of the injury. Of the 170 distal radius fractures, 11 (7%) also had 1 or 2 carpal fractures. Of the 15 carpal fractures, 8 were scaphoid, 2 triquetrum, 2 pisiform, 1 capitate, 1 trapezium, and 1 hamate. Eleven of the 15 carpal fractures were diagnosed by computed tomography alone. Male gender, patients of lower mean age, AO/ASIF type B, and high-energy trauma significantly raised the risk of simultaneous fractures of the distal radius and carpals. The incidence of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fractures was not negligible, and almost all carpal fractures had no or minimal displacement. Suspicion of carpal fractures occurring concurrently with distal radius fracture should be high, and computed tomography should be considered, in males, young patients, and those with AO/ASIF type B fractures and high energy trauma."}
{"id": "22284748", "title": "Reliability and clinical importance of teardrop angle measurement in intra-articular distal radius fracture.", "content": "Reliability and clinical importance of teardrop angle measurement in intra-articular distal radius fracture. The teardrop angle (TDA) is a newly characterized radiographic parameter that some authors propose as an indicator of articular incongruity of the lunate facet. The purposes of this study were to investigate intra-observer and interobserver reliability of the measurements of the TDA and to determine whether the TDA is a reliable indicator of articular step and gap formation after distal radius fracture. We studied radiographs of 24 uninjured wrists and 24 wrists with intra-articular distal radius fractures. On standard and 10\u00b0 tilt views of lateral wrist radiographs, the teardrop represents the volar rim of the lunate facet, and the TDA is defined as the angle between the central axis of the teardrop and the radial shaft. We examined interobserver and intra-observer reliability for 3 observers using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for measurements of the uninjured and fractured wrists. For subjects with fractures, we determined correlation of the TDA-volar tilt with the articular step and gap measured by computed tomography using simple linear regression. There was almost perfect intra-observer (ICC = 0.95) and interobserver (ICC = 0.93) reliability in the fractured wrists. We observed substantial intra-observer (ICC = 0.64) and fair interobserver (ICC = 0.28) reliability in the uninjured wrists on the standard lateral radiographs. On the 10\u00b0 tilt views, intra-observer and interobserver reliability in the uninjured wrists increased to substantial levels (ICC = 0.76 and 0.61, respectively). The TDA-volar tilt was significantly associated with articular step and gap on computed tomography. The TDA, measured on the lateral radiograph of the wrist, exhibits higher intra-observer and interobserver reliability in fractured wrists compared with uninjured wrists. On the 10\u00b0 tilt views, the reliability increased in the uninjured wrists. Measurement of the TDA in plain radiographs may allow direct estimation of articular incongruity as seen on sagittal computed tomography reconstruction images."}
{"id": "22281168", "title": "Interobserver reliability of computed tomography to diagnose scaphoid waist fracture union.", "content": "Interobserver reliability of computed tomography to diagnose scaphoid waist fracture union. To determine the interobserver agreement and diagnostic performance characteristics of computed tomography (CT) for determining union of scaphoid waist fractures. A total of 59 orthopedic and trauma surgeons rated for union a set of 30 sagittal CT scans of 30 scaphoid waist fractures. Of these fractures, 20 were treated nonoperatively, were imaged between 6 and 10 weeks after injury, and were known to have eventually achieved union. Ten were operatively confirmed to be ununited. We rated each scan as united or ununited using a Web-based rating application. We assessed interobserver reliability using Siegel's multirater Kappa. We calculated diagnostic performance characteristics using Bayesian formulas. The interobserver agreement among 59 raters was substantial. The average sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of diagnosing union of scaphoid waist fractures on sagittal CT scans were 78%, 96%, and 84%, respectively. Assuming a 90% prevalence of fracture union of the scaphoid, the positive predictive value of a diagnosis of union on sagittal CT scan was 0.99 and the negative predictive value was 0.41. Our results suggest that CT scans are accurate and reliable for diagnosis of union but inadequate for ruling out nonunion of scaphoid waist fractures between 6 and 10 weeks after injury. Diagnostic III."}
{"id": "22194495", "title": "Evaluation of the diagnostic performance of tomosynthesis in fractures of the wrist.", "content": "Evaluation of the diagnostic performance of tomosynthesis in fractures of the wrist. The purpose of our study was to define the diagnostic value of tomosynthesis compared with standard radiography and CT in wrist injuries. One hundred consecutive patients with acute wrist trauma were investigated with standard radiography, tomosynthesis, and CT. Reference results were those obtained with CT; follow-up monitoring of the patients; and, in some cases, MRI (n=13). Three readers interpreted the findings independently, each using a PACS workstation, and categorized the cases into four groups: fracture of the radius, fracture of the scaphoid, fracture of another bone, and absence of fracture. Fifty-seven percent of the patients had a fracture. The interobserver kappa value varied between 0.54 and 0.59 for standard radiography, between 0.66 and 0.69 for tomosynthesis, and between 0.84 and 0.89 for CT. The sensitivity of standard radiography varied between 61% and 80% and specificity between 65% and 83%. The sensitivity of tomosynthesis ranged between 77% and 87%, and specificity between 76% and 82%. Ranges of sensitivity and specificity for CT were 93-95%, and 86-95%, respectively. The diagnostic value of tomosynthesis is superior to that of standard radiography but inferior to that of CT."}
{"id": "22179982", "title": "Influence of screw design, sex, and approach in scaphoid fracture fixation.", "content": "Influence of screw design, sex, and approach in scaphoid fracture fixation. Screw fixation of scaphoid fractures has gained popularity. A long central screw has been shown to be biomechanically advantageous. We compared the ability of different screw designs to obtain this goal and determined the influence of sex and approach on screw length. We performed all measurements on three-dimensional reconstructions of 20 CT scans of normal scaphoids (10 men and 10 women) with the use of software. The three-dimensional computer models were analyzed, the central axis was defined, and the screws were placed along this axis. We compared 15 different available screw designs and volar and dorsal screw placement. The length of the scaphoid along its central axis was longer in men (mean, 27.14\u00a0mm; standard error of the mean, 0.97\u00a0mm) than in women (mean, 23.86\u00a0mm; standard error of the mean, 0.37\u00a0mm). The screw length that can be used was longer in the volar approach (mean, 23.72\u00a0mm; standard error of the mean, 0.19\u00a0mm) than in the dorsal approach (mean, 23.31\u00a0mm; standard error of the mean, 0.19\u00a0mm) regardless of the screw design. Screws with a trailing thread diameter greater than 3.9\u00a0mm and leading thread diameter greater than 3.0\u00a0mm were shorter. Scaphoids in women are smaller than in men. Theoretically, fixation of scaphoid fractures through a volar approach will allow the surgeon to use longer screws. The screw design has a significant influence on the screw length that can be used in scaphoid fracture fixation. We recommend using a differential pitch screw with a thread diameter of 3.9\u00a0mm or less."}
{"id": "22176881", "title": "Chronic mesenteric ischemia in a 26-year-old man: multivessel median arcuate ligament compression syndrome.", "content": "Chronic mesenteric ischemia in a 26-year-old man: multivessel median arcuate ligament compression syndrome. Chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) is a rare diagnosis for patients in their third decade of life. Other conditions can mimic the signs and symptoms of CMI, including median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS), primary arteritides, and congenital anomalies. Here, we present the case of a 26-year-old man who presented with CMI and multivessel mesenteric occlusive disease. A 26-year-old man presented with a 6-month history of 40-pound weight loss, postprandial abdominal pain, and food fear. His physical examination showed a scaphoid abdomen with no tenderness. Findings from laboratory evaluation were normal. Computed tomography angiogram revealed celiac artery (CA) occlusion and >80% superior mesenteric artery (SMA) stenosis, with a large marginal artery of Drummond supplying collateral circulation. A retroperitoneal exposure of the perivisceral aorta was performed. Surgical exposure revealed compression of both CA and SMA by the MAL. The total distance of caudal arterial displacement was >3 cm. Both the CA and SMA were chronically stenotic/occluded secondary to this compression. After division of the MAL, a retrograde aortoceliac and aortomesenteric bypass was performed for mesenteric revascularization. The patient recovered uneventfully and was discharged home on the third day after surgery tolerating a full diet. MALS is a pathologic entity that can affect more than the CA. This case demonstrates multivessel, mesenteric arterial insufficiency secondary to MALS sufficient to promote IMA collateralization of the SMA circulation. In young patients with CMI, multivessel MALS must be considered. In addition to MAL release, arterial revascularization may be necessary owing to stenoses from chronic compression."}
{"id": "22086787", "title": "Early CT for suspected occult scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Early CT for suspected occult scaphoid fractures. In this study, the use of computed tomography (CT) early in the management of suspected occult scaphoid fractures was evaluated. We retrospectively reviewed the notes and radiology of patients who had scaphoid CT scans over the preceding 3 years. Eighty-four patients that had CT scans within 14 days from injury were identified. Of the CT scans, 64% (n = 54) excluded a fracture and these patients were promptly mobilized. No patients returned with any complications from this management. Overall, 36% of CT scans were abnormal (n = 30), 7% revealed occult scaphoid fractures, 18% revealed occult carpal fractures of the triquetrum, capitate, and lunate, respectively, and 5% revealed distal radius fractures. All patients diagnosed with fractures were successfully managed with plaster immobilization and there was one case of complex regional pain syndrome. Early CT alters therapeutic decision making in suspected occult fractures preventing unnecessary immobilization in a working population without increase in cost."}
{"id": "22072191", "title": "Persistent ulnar-sided wrist pain after treatment of triquetral dorsal chip fracture: six cases related to triangular fibrocartilage complex injury.", "content": "Persistent ulnar-sided wrist pain after treatment of triquetral dorsal chip fracture: six cases related to triangular fibrocartilage complex injury. Persistent ulnar-sided wrist pain after treatment of triquetral dorsal chip fracture even after union is a matter of concern. There could be various reasons for this persistent pain like arthritis, instability, fractures and non-union. We correlate our findings of physical examination and wrist arthroscopy as triangular fibrocartilage complex injury to be one of the causes of this persistent pain. Six subjects who had persistent ulnocarpal joint pain and tenderness after triquetral dorsal chip fracture, despite 2 months of conservative treatment, were subjected to physical tests. If the physical examination yields positive results, then magnetic resonance imaging followed by arthroscopic treatment was performed. The six patients were then evaluated using the visual analogue scale, the Mayo modified wrist score, and the grip strength test. Triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) injury was observed in all six cases and partial TFCC resection and synovectomy were performed. Analysis of the visual analogue scale, Mayo modified wrist score, and grip strength test data revealed statistically significant improvements (P < 0.05). In addition to several causes reported in the published literature, TFCC injury can be a cause of persistent ulnar pain after treatment of triquetral dorsal chip fracture. Arthroscopic partial TFCC resection can be considered to be a suitable treatment for such cases."}
{"id": "21940274", "title": "Visual vignette. Severe primary hyper- parathyroidism.", "content": "Visual vignette. Severe primary hyper- parathyroidism."}
{"id": "21918482", "title": "Long-term results of scaphoid nonunion surgery: 50 patients reviewed after 8 to 18 years.", "content": "Long-term results of scaphoid nonunion surgery: 50 patients reviewed after 8 to 18 years. Untreated scaphoid nonunions are a hazard to the wrist, resulting in deteriorating function and radiologic degenerative changes with increasing time. Long-term results after surgery of scaphoid nonunion reporting clinical, radiologic, and subjective outcomes are scarce. Retrospective follow-up study. From 1990 to 1998, 53 patients were operated on for persistent scaphoid nonunion; three patients were excluded from the follow-up (one expelled foreigner, another died of an unrelated cause, one never appeared after surgery), leaving 50 patients eligible for follow-up. All patients were operated on with open reduction and internal fixation; the majority also received a bone graft. Radiology and computed tomography verified union, degenerative wrist changes, and final salvage treatment. Range of motion, grip strength, key pinch, and subjective outcome (QuickDASH, visual analog scale). Fifty patients were followed up after a mean of 12.2 years (standard deviation [SD], 3.0), 47 by clinical and radiologic examination; three were interviewed by telephone and completed QuickDASH and visual analog scale forms. Union was achieved in 45 of 50 scaphoids and an additional two after a second attempt. Five patients (one persistent and four healed nonunions) underwent salvage procedures. Grip strength (41 vs 45 kg, P = nonsignificant), key pinch (11.5 vs 12.4, P = nonsignificant), and active range of motion (186\u00b0 vs 214\u00b0, P < 0.001) were slightly reduced compared with the uninjured side. The subjective outcome was good (mean visual analog scale = 7, mean QuickDASH = 9.1). Minor degenerative changes were seen in nine wrists at surgery and 22 at follow-up. Healing of a scaphoid nonunion provides long-term pain relief, excellent wrist function, and halts degenerative changes in the majority of patients. Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "21903213", "title": "Scaphoid morphology and clinical outcomes in scaphoid reconstructions.", "content": "Scaphoid morphology and clinical outcomes in scaphoid reconstructions. Scaphoid malunion and carpal malalignment can result after scaphoid reconstruction, if the two fragments are not properly reduced before fixation. However, currently there is no information about which degree of deformity or malalignment can be tolerated without impairing clinical function. The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of the scaphoid morphology and carpal alignment on clinical outcomes after scaphoid reconstruction. A total of 65 patients with an average age of 29 years were followed-up after a mean period of 45 months. In all patients, osseous union after a first-time scaphoid reconstruction in the middle third had been confirmed. Scapholunate (SL) and radiolunate (RL) angles were obtained on plain radiographs as were intrascaphoid (ISA) and dorsal cortical (DCA) angles and the height/length (H/L) ratio of the reconstructed scaphoid on computed tomography (CT) scans. These parameters were correlated with clinical outcome measures. RL angles correlated significantly with wrist range of motion, grip strength and pain levels, whilst SL angles, ISA, DCA and H/L ratio failed to show significant correlations. Our data suggest that clinical outcome is correlated with correct restoration of bone morphology and carpal alignment. After reconstruction, the RL angle should not exceed 10\u00b0."}
{"id": "21898036", "title": "Role of MRI in the diagnosis and management of patients with clinical scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Role of MRI in the diagnosis and management of patients with clinical scaphoid fracture. The American College of Radiologists (ACR) recognises the value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as the investigation of choice in patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture but normal plain radiographs. The Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) in the UK produces no similar guidelines, as evidenced by the inconsistent management of such cases in hospitals around the UK. In discussion with our musculoskeletal radiologists, we implemented new guidelines to standardise management of our patients and now report our findings. A consecutive series of 137 patients referred to the orthopaedic department with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture but normal series of plain radiographs were prospectively followed up over a two-year period. We implemented the use of early MRI for these patients and determined its incidence of detected scaphoid injury in addition to other occult injuries. We then prospectively examined results of these findings on patient management. Thirty-seven (27%) MRI examinations were normal with no evidence of a bony or soft-tissue injury. Soft-tissue injury was diagnosed in 59 patients (43.4%). Of those, 46 were triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) tears (33.8%) and 18 were intercarpal ligament injuries (13.2 %). Bone marrow oedema with no distinct fracture was discovered in 55 cases (40.4%). In 17 (12.5%) cases, this involved only the scaphoid. In the remainder, it also involved the other carpal bones or distal radius. Fracture(s) were diagnosed on 30 examinations (22.0%). MRI should be regarded as the gold standard investigation for patients in whom a scaphoid fracture is suspected clinically. It allows the diagnosis of occult bony and soft-tissue injuries that can present clinically as a scaphoid fracture; it also helps exclude patients with no fracture. We believe that there is a need to implement national guidelines for managing occult scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21869681", "title": "Outcome of wrist injuries with clinical suspicion of scaphoid injury after normal computed tomography.", "content": "Outcome of wrist injuries with clinical suspicion of scaphoid injury after normal computed tomography. Wrist injuries are a common presentation to emergency departments. A clinical pathway has recently been introduced in our institution for patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid injury, using computed tomography (CT) at 2 weeks postinjury to rule out scaphoid fracture. However, it is not known what happens to patients who have a normal CT after such an injury. The aim of this pilot study was to assess disability after CT-negative wrist injuries. A prospective questionnaire study was undertaken to assess disability in patients who had a normal CT after clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture, using the Patient Rated Wrist Evaluation questionnaire. Adult patients were recruited at their first emergency department clinic review, where a baseline questionnaire was completed. Follow-up questionnaires were sent 3, 6 and 12 months later. Pain and function were assessed on a 0-10 scale, giving a total score out of 100. Ninety-nine patients were initially recruited, of whom 72 had negative CT; 40 patients completed follow-up. There was a statistically significant reduction in pain, functional deficit and combined disability between baseline scores and 12-month follow-up. Overall, three (8%) patients had severe disability (pain and function combined), and six (15%) had moderate disability at 12 months. The majority of these patients recover from their injury, but a small proportion with normal CT scans have considerable disability 12 months after injury. Appropriate advice should be given to these patients to enable them to access further investigation and treatment."}
{"id": "21848532", "title": "Endoscopic evaluation of the navicular bursa: observations, treatment and outcome in 92 cases with identified pathology.", "content": "Endoscopic evaluation of the navicular bursa: observations, treatment and outcome in 92 cases with identified pathology. Diagnostic navicular bursoscopy has been described in limited cases. Review of greater numbers is needed to define its contribution to case management and prognostic values. To report: 1) clinical, diagnostic and endoscopic findings in a series of cases, 2) surgical techniques and case outcomes and 3) prognostic values. The authors hypothesise: 1) lameness localising to the navicular bursa is commonly associated with dorsal border deep digital flexor tendon (DDFT) lesions, 2) endoscopy allows extent of injuries to be assessed and treated, 3) case outcome relates to severity of DDFT injury and 4) the technique is safe and associated with little morbidity. All horses that underwent endoscopy of a forelimb navicular bursa for investigation of lameness were identified. Case files were reviewed and those with injuries within the bursa selected for further analysis. One-hundred-and-fourteen horses were identified. Ninety-two had injuries within the bursa and DDFT injuries were identified in 98% of bursae. Of those examined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 56% had combination injuries involving the DDFT and navicular bone. Sixty-one percent of horses returned to work sound, 42% returned to previous performance. Horses with extensive tearing and combination injuries of the DDFT and navicular bone identified with MRI, had worse outcomes. Lameness localising to the navicular bursa is commonly associated with injuries to the dorsal border of the DDFT. Endoscopy permits identification and characterisation of injuries within the navicular bursa and enables lesion management. Outcome following debridement is related to severity of injury but overall is reasonable. Horses with lameness localising to the navicular bursa may have tears of the DDFT. Bursoscopy is able to contribute diagnostic and prognostic information and debridement of lesions improves outcome compared to cases managed conservatively."}
{"id": "21823992", "title": "Reliability and validity of measurement and associations between disability and behavioural factors in patients with Colles' fracture.", "content": "Reliability and validity of measurement and associations between disability and behavioural factors in patients with Colles' fracture. The aims of the study were to 1) investigate the test-retest reliability, the internal consistency in instruments that measure behavioural factors and disability as well as to investigate convergent validity between the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand Outcome Questionnaire (DASH) and the Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE), in patients with Colles' fracture; and 2) assess the relationship between the behavioural measures and the region-specific measures addressing the patient perceptions of impairment, functional loss, and disability. Two samples (sample 1\u2009=\u200916; sample 2\u2009=\u200916) of patients with the fracture immobilised in plaster cast were included. The participants answered the Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE), Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand Outcome Questionnaire (DASH), Tampa Scale of Kinesophobia (TSK), Catastrophizing Subscale (CAT) of the Coping Strategies Questionnaire (CSQ), and Self-Efficacy Scale (SES) twice. Test-retest reliability was satisfactory for all instruments. The internal consistency examined with Cronbach's alpha was between 0.68 and 0.97. Because acceptable to good test-retest reliability and internal consistency were demonstrated for the PRWE, DASH, TSK, CAT of the CSQ, and SES, they can be used to detect and monitor fear of movement/(re)injury, catastrophic cognitions, and self-efficacy in patients with radius fracture in the acute and subacute phase. Generally low to moderate correlations were found between behavioural and region-specific measures, indicating that there are two distinct concepts that are not interchangeable."}
{"id": "21708842", "title": "Bone bridge resection for correction of distal radial deformities after partial growth plate arrest: two cases and surgical technique.", "content": "Bone bridge resection for correction of distal radial deformities after partial growth plate arrest: two cases and surgical technique. Partial closure of the growth plate is an uncommon complication in the distal radius even though distal radial fractures are among the most common injuries in children. We report two cases of resection of a bony bridge in the distal radial growth plate in boys aged 8 and 9 years with a description of the operative technique."}
{"id": "21706154", "title": "Volume slicing of cone-beam computed tomography images for navigation of percutaneous scaphoid fixation.", "content": "Volume slicing of cone-beam computed tomography images for navigation of percutaneous scaphoid fixation. Percutaneous scaphoid fixation (PSF) is growing in popularity as a treatment option for non-displaced fractures. Success of this procedure demands high-precision screw placement, which can be difficult to achieve with standard 2D imaging. This study aimed to develop and test a system for computer-assisted navigation using volume slicing of 3D cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT). The navigated technique involved a distinctive workflow in which a 3D CBCT imager was calibrated preoperatively, circumventing the need for intraoperative patient-based registration. Intraoperatively, a 3D CBCT image was acquired for both preoperative planning and direct navigation using volume-rendered slices. An in vitro study was conducted to compare the navigated approach to two conventional fluoroscopic methods for volar PSF. The surgical goal was to insert a guide wire to maximize both length and central placement. There was no significant difference in the mean central placement of guide wire, although the variance in central placement was significantly lower using VS navigation (P < 0.01). The lengths of the drill paths were significantly longer for the VS-navigated group compared with one 2D group (P < 0.1). Each navigated trial required only one drilling attempt and resulted in less radiation exposure than conventional C-arm (P < 0.01). Volume-sliced navigation achieved a more repeatable and reliable central pin placement, with fewer drilling attempts than conventional 2D techniques. Volume-sliced navigation had a higher number of drill paths within the optimal zone maximizing both length of the path and depth from the surface."}
{"id": "21547958", "title": "Osseous microarchitecture of the scaphoid: Cadaveric study of regional variations and clinical implications.", "content": "Osseous microarchitecture of the scaphoid: Cadaveric study of regional variations and clinical implications. Bone strength and structure are closely associated with fracture and screw fixation, however osseous micro architecture on scaphoid has not been clearly addressed. We conducted histomorphometric study of the scaphoid using micro CT to find regional variations and differences in the scaphoid to provide better understanding of fracture mechanism and suggest optimal screw position. We divided scaphoid into eight regions and collected regional data from eleven different cadaveric scaphoids. A computer program was used to measure parameters, which includes mean subchondral bone thickness, bone mineral density for bone density parameters, and tissue mineral density, trabecular thickness, trabecular spacing, trabecular number and bone volume fraction for bone quality parameters. All bone strength parameters were measured the maximum value in the regions where scaphoid articulates with radius. Articular regions presented higher bone strength parameters and thicker subchondral bone. The minimum value of trabecular number was in midcarpal side of waist portion. There was trend of higher subchondral bone thickness in the scaphoid which articulates with capitate and radius. This histomorphometric study showed regional variation of the scaphoid in terms of bone density and quality parameters. Waist portion presented thick subchondral and trabecular bone for high cross section moment of inertia against bending. Three point bending for scaphoid fracture and vertical screw placement are suggested based on these variations."}
{"id": "20924551", "title": "[Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure with distal radioulnar fusion and segmental resection of the ulna].", "content": "[Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure with distal radioulnar fusion and segmental resection of the ulna]. The Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure aims at improvement of rotation in the distal radioulnar joint and reduction of pain. Cases of ulnar impaction syndrome can also be corrected during the same procedure. The most important indication is painful und restricted forearm rotation after fracture of the distal radius combined with obsolete dislocation or destruction of the distal radioulnar joint. It is a salvage procedure and is contraindicated when reconstruction of the radioulnar joint or shortening of the ulna is possible. Further contraindications are rheumatic arthritis and osteoporosis. The Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure creates a new distal rotatory joint due to distal radioulnar fusion and segmental resection of the distal ulna. Forearm cast including the wrist for 3-4\u00a0weeks. Phyisiotherapy and intensive exercises of the fingers on postoperative day\u00a01. After removing the cast, careful rotation exercises are possible. In 75\u00a0patients, the Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure was performed between 1990 and 2003. Failure was observed in one patient with a bony regeneration between the resected ulnar segment. In 3 cases, a nonunion of the radioulnar joint was found. After revision with bone grafting, bony consolidation of the joint was identified in all cases. In 2 cases, there were problems with the proximal ulnar stump, whereby this was corrected in one case by resection of a ball-type callus. In the other case, painful ulna-snapping was reduced by shortening of the ulna. In earlier follow-up with 45\u00a0patients and later long-turn follow-up, ranging from 3-12\u00a0years, not only were significant improvement of forearm rotation and reduction of pain observed, but also good patient satisfaction was found."}
{"id": "22707598", "title": "Carpal contusions in an elite platform diver.", "content": "Carpal contusions in an elite platform diver. Wrist and hand injuries are common in elite divers, as all correctly performed dives end with a head first entry into the water with the hands extended above the head. This case presentation was an Olympic level diver with 3 months of persistent dorsal wrist pain. MRI findings showed contiguous contusions to the lunate, capitate, hamate and distal radius and also a peripheral tear of the ulnar attachment of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC). The repeated dorsiflexion stress of entry into the water likely caused these injuries. Although the authors had suspected a TFCC injury and did find an isolated ulnar-sided peripheral tear, the complicating carpal contusions led us to choose a conservative treatment plan, which was the only intervention the patient ultimately required."}
{"id": "22165536", "title": "[Wrist ligament injuries--diagnostics].", "content": "[Wrist ligament injuries--diagnostics]."}
{"id": "22116544", "title": "[Update on trauma surgery].", "content": "[Update on trauma surgery]."}
{"id": "22097142", "title": "[The causes and preventive methods of misdiagnosis on wrist scaphoid bone fracture].", "content": "[The causes and preventive methods of misdiagnosis on wrist scaphoid bone fracture]. To retrospectively analysis the curative effect of wrist scaphoid bone fracture,and explore the causes and preventive methods of misdiagnosis. From September 2007 to September 2010,16 patients with wrist scaphoid bone fractures were treated with plaster cast and cannulated screws fixation. There were 10 males and 6 females,ranging in age from 26 to 44 years with an average of 35 years. Among them, 12 cases manifested swelling pain of radial lateral wrist, tenderness at snuffbox area, wrist pain aggravated when stretching wrist joint, thumb or forefinger; 4 cases manifested no obviously symptoms and limited movement; 9 cases were early diagnosed; 5 cases were treated by plaster cast; 4 cases were treated with cannulated screws fixation; Among 7 cases with misdiagnosis, there were 4 cases without obvious symptoms and they were dealt with activating blood to dissipate swelling and pain process in preliminary stage. Four cases were treated with plaster cast and 3 cases with cannulated screws fixation. All the patients were followed up from 3 months to 39 months (averaged 21 months). Among 16 patients, 9 cases were early diagnosis, 7 cases were misdiagnosis and the rate of misdiagnosis was 43.8%. Seven cases with screws fixation were no wound infection. There was 1 case with occurred chronic pain and declining wrist mobility in both plaster cast and screw group, and both of them were misdiagnosed. According to curative effect rating criteria,these 2 cases were classified into moderate, other 14 cases were excellent. Wrist scaphoid bone fracture are easy to misdiagnose, so early diagnosis and treatment is particularly important. The main causes of misdiagnosis are nonspecific symptoms at early stage, combination with other injuries, lack of knowledge and ignorance of the further examination. Therefore, detailed inquiries and particular examination, multi-dimensional radiography and CT scan or MRI scan are the main measures for prevention."}
{"id": "22094152", "title": "Current concepts review: carpal injuries - fractures, ligaments, dislocations.", "content": "Current concepts review: carpal injuries - fractures, ligaments, dislocations. An overview about current concepts in treating carpal injuries is presented. These injuries are more commonly seen in young, active individuals after a fall on an outstretched hand. Conventional radiographs and a thorough examination are important. The scaphoid is the most affected bone. Scaphoid fractures can be classified in accordance to OTA, AO, and other classification systems, but mostly to Herbert. It can be treated non-operatively if undisplaced, however a percutaneous internal fixation can be discussed to achieve earlier return to work and shorter time to union, but hazarding the consequences of an operation. Unstable, proximal pole, or delayed diagnosed scaphoid fractures should be treated surgically. Nonunion is seen in 5 - 40% of scaphoid fractures depending mainly on displacement and localization of the fracture. The gold standard in non-osteoarthritic scaphoid nonunion is debridement of the nonunion site, bone grafting, realignment, stable fixation and rehabilitation. The treatment of scaphoid-nonunion advanced collapse is more complex. Proximal row carpectomy or arthrodesis (four-corner or complete wrist) can be mandatory. Other carpal bone fractures are rare. Perilunate dislocations are also uncommon but can be disabling. They usually originate in high-energy trauma. The Mayfield stages help to understand the injury pattern. Open reduction through both volar and dorsal approaches, repair of the volar capsule as well as volar and dorsal ligaments, and internal fixation is commonly the standard treatment. However osteoarthritis and carpal instability are often encountered."}
{"id": "22093123", "title": "Provocative wrist tests and MRI are of limited diagnostic value for suspected wrist ligament injuries: a cross-sectional study.", "content": "Provocative wrist tests and MRI are of limited diagnostic value for suspected wrist ligament injuries: a cross-sectional study. What is the diagnostic value of provocative wrist tests and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for suspected wrist ligament injuries? Cross-sectional study. 105 people presenting to hand clinics with wrist pain and suspected wrist ligament injuries were evaluated prospectively. The integrity of wrist ligaments was tested with seven provocative tests. The results were compared to the reference standard of arthroscopy. In a subgroup of 55 participants, MRI findings were also compared to arthroscopy. The provocative tests were the scaphoid shift test (SS test), lunotriquetral test (LT test), midcarpal test (MC test), distal radioulnar joint test (DRUJ test), triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) stress test (TFCC test), TFCC stress test with compression (TFCC comp test), and the gripping rotatory impaction test (GRIT). Most provocative tests and MRI findings were of little or no value for diagnosing wrist ligament injuries. Exceptions were the SS test (+ve LR 2.88 and -ve LR 0.28), MC test (+ve LR 2.67) and DRUJ test (-ve LR 0.30), all of which were of mild diagnostic usefulness. MRI was moderately useful for diagnosing TFCC injuries (+ve LR 5.56, -ve LR 0.15), and was mildly useful for diagnosing scapholunate (SL) ligament injuries (+ve LR 4.17, -ve LR 0.32) and lunate cartilage damage (+ve LR 3.67, -ve LR 0.33). Adding MRI to provocative tests improved the accuracy of diagnosis of TFCC injuries slightly (by 13%) and lunate cartilage damage (by 8%). Provocative wrist tests of SL ligament injuries and midcarpal ligament injuries are mildly useful for diagnosing wrist injuries. MRI diagnostic findings of SL ligament injuries, lunate cartilage damage, and TFCC are mildly to moderately useful. MRI slightly improves the diagnosis of TFCC injury and lunate cartilage damage compared to provocative tests alone."}
{"id": "22072473", "title": "Closed radial wedge osteotomy for Preiser's disease: a report of four cases.", "content": "Closed radial wedge osteotomy for Preiser's disease: a report of four cases. To investigate the clinical outcome of closed radial wedge osteotomy (CRWO) for Preiser's disease. CRWO was performed for four patients with Preiser's disease between 2000 and 2005. All patients were diagnosed by X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Separation gaps in the radioscaphoid joint were observed to evaluate the decompression in the area. Clinical evaluation was performed using Cooney's scoring system. Although wrist pain persisted in patients with radioscaphoid arthritis change, marked mitigation of wrist pain was confirmed in three patients. The average clinical score was 66, with good in one, fair in two, and poor in one. Restriction of wrist movement by CRWO caused lower clinical scores. No patients had wrist arthrodesis at the last follow-up evaluation. Short-term observation showed disappointing clinical results; however, for relief of wrist pain, this method is a potential surgical procedure for Preiser's disease under limited conditions."}
{"id": "22067958", "title": "The treatment of scaphoid nonunion using the Ilizarov fixator without bone graft, a study of 18 cases.", "content": "The treatment of scaphoid nonunion using the Ilizarov fixator without bone graft, a study of 18 cases. Evaluating the safety and efficacy of the Ilizarov fine-wire compression/distraction technique in the treatment of scaphoid nonunion (SNU), without the use of bone graft. A retrospective review of 18 consecutive patients in one centre. 18 patients; 17 males; 1 female, with a mean SNU duration of 13.9 months. Patients with carpal instability, humpback deformity, carpal collapse, avascular necrosis or marked degenerative change, were excluded. Following frame application the treatment consisted of three stages: the frame was distracted 1 mm per day until radiographs showed a 2-3 mm opening at the SNU site (mean 10 days); the SNU site was then compressed for 5 days, at a rate of 1 mm per day, with the wrist in 15 degrees of flexion and 15 degrees of radial deviation; the third stage involved immobilization with the Ilizarov fixator for 6 weeks. The technique is detailed herein. Radiographic (CT) and clinical bony union was achieved in all 18 patients after a mean of 89 days (70-130 days). Mean modified Mayo wrist scores improved from 21 to 86 at a mean follow-up of 37 months (24-72 months), with good/excellent results in 14 patients. All patients returned to their pre-injury occupations and levels of activity at a mean of 117 days. Three patients suffered superficial K-wire infections, which resolved with oral antibiotics. In these selected patients this technique safely achieved bony union without the need to open the SNU site and without the use of bone graft."}
{"id": "22058291", "title": "Displaced fracture of the waist of the scaphoid.", "content": "Displaced fracture of the waist of the scaphoid. A displaced fracture of the scaphoid is one in which the fragments have moved from their anatomical position or there is movement between them when stressed by physiological loads. Displacement is seen in about 20% of fractures of the waist of the scaphoid, as shown by translation, a gap, angulation or rotation. A CT scan in the true longitudinal axis of the scaphoid demonstrates the shape of the bone and displacement of the fracture more accurately than do plain radiographs. Displaced fractures can be treated in a plaster cast, accepting the risk of malunion and nonunion. Surgically the displacement can be reduced, checked radiologically, arthroscopically or visually, and stabilised with headless screws or wires. However, rates of union and deformity are unknown. Mild malunion is well tolerated, but the long-term outcome of a displaced fracture that healed in malalignment has not been established. This paper summarises aspects of the assessment, treatment and outcome of displaced fractures of the waist of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "22054984", "title": "Osseous and ligamentous scaphoid anatomy: Part II. Evaluation of ligament morphology using three-dimensional anatomical imaging.", "content": "Osseous and ligamentous scaphoid anatomy: Part II. Evaluation of ligament morphology using three-dimensional anatomical imaging. There are many controversies in the literature regarding the morphology of the scaphoid ligaments. The aim of this study was to provide a more accurate description by quantitatively describing the 3-dimensional, geometrical aspects of the scaphoid ligaments and their attachments, using cryomicrotome images of cadaveric wrists. Eight fresh-frozen human cadaver wrists were examined with computed tomography (CT) and an imaging cryomicrotome. A series of 2-dimensional cryoimages created a 3-dimensional anatomical data set of each test specimen. Detection of ligaments and their surface areas was performed by manually marking the course and attachment points for each ligament, using dedicated visualization software. The 3-dimensional bone surfaces were segmented from the acquired CT images and incorporated in the 3-dimensional anatomical data set of the same anatomical specimen to facilitate the detection procedure. The results of the morphological parameters and attachment areas of the scaphoid ligaments are described 3-dimensionally. The mean size of the whole scaphoid surface was 1503 \u00b1 17 mm(2), and the mean size of all ligament attachments on the scaphoid was 131 \u00b1 14 mm(2); thus, ligament attachments consist of 9% \u00b1 0.9% of the total scaphoid surface area. Based on the data, a 3-dimensional representation of the wrist was created to present the scaphoid ligament attachment areas and paths. The dorsal intercarpal ligament had the most individual variability between specimens in attachments. The quantitative results were almost completely consistent with the findings of previous reports. The only inconsistency in ligament morphology regarded the scaphocapitate ligament, which in this study was found to be the thickest ligament attached to the scaphoid. The results of this study improve our knowledge of scaphoid ligament anatomy, as they corroborate previous findings. This is important for carpal surgery and will pave the way to a better understanding of the biomechanics involved in destabilization of wrist fractures."}
{"id": "22041144", "title": "'Clinical scaphoid fracture': is it time to abolish this phrase?", "content": "'Clinical scaphoid fracture': is it time to abolish this phrase? Most patients with post-traumatic painful wrists and negative radiographs are treated as having a clinical scaphoid fracture. Such cases are usually followed up with repeat radiographs. If the radiographs are inconclusive further imaging is done. However, this traditional approach results in the vast majority of patients being unnecessarily immobilised for an unspecified period, leading to loss of productivity and income to the patient and the community. A number of studies have highlighted the use of early CT or MRI scans to identify these fractures. The aim of this study was to evaluate our current practice in managing patients with suspected fractures of the scaphoid. A retrospective audit was carried out. The period studied was from January to August 2008. Fifty consecutive patients who were investigated for occult fractures of the scaphoid were included. 92% of the patients studied had a repeat radiograph in the fracture clinic. 84% of the patients had their wrists immobilised in a cast while awaiting further imaging. Only 6% had confirmed fracture of the scaphoid; all of these healed uneventfully. 76% of patients with negative scans had their wrists immobilised for an average period of 30.63 days. It is time we rethink this dogmatic approach to patients with clinical signs but negative radiographs. We recommend that patients with a painful wrist following an injury and negative radiographs should be referred early to an appropriate clinician and earlier recourse to advanced imaging should be advocated."}
{"id": "22008676", "title": "[Establishment of a \"central zone\" in the scaphoid bone by computer analysis of three-dimensional reconstructions of computed tomography imaging and selection of central location of the scaphoid screw].", "content": "[Establishment of a \"central zone\" in the scaphoid bone by computer analysis of three-dimensional reconstructions of computed tomography imaging and selection of central location of the scaphoid screw]. To establish an area by generating a surface model located a certain distance inside the scaphoid bone by computer analysis of three-dimensional reconstructions of computed tomography images, and define the central zone of the scaphoid. Twenty cases of three-dimensional computed tomography reconstructions of normal scaphoids in a computerized operation planning and simulation system (Vxwork software) were obtained. The scaphoid surface model was shrunk by using the function \"erode\" in the software until the waist portion became the one third size of the original waist portion of the scaphoid, and then another 1.5 mm shrinkage was made to get the central zone. Geometry and size of the central zone were evaluated and measured. Geometry of all central zones was similar, as irregular as the scaphoid. The central zone could be divided into distal pole, waist portion and proximal pole. The narrowest part in the central zone was the waist portion, whose diameter ranged from 0.8-1.2 mm. Based on irregularity and size of the central zone, a screw axis could only be possibly contained completely either in the proximal, waist or distal central zone area, as it was very difficult to place the screw centrally in the whole scaphoid. The establishment of the central zone of the scaphoid three-dimensional computed tomography images could provide a baseline for discussion of central placement for scaphoid screw."}
{"id": "21981830", "title": "Intra-articular fractures of the distal radius evaluated by computed tomography.", "content": "Intra-articular fractures of the distal radius evaluated by computed tomography. To describe the fracture lines of intra-articular distal radius fractures as evaluated by computed tomography scans. With computed tomography, we examined 95 intra-articular fractures of the distal radius from 91 patients. Multiplanar computed tomography images or 3-dimensional images, or both, were assessed. We divided the periphery of the distal articular surface of the distal radius into 6 segments (sigmoid notch, dorsoulnar, dorsoradial, volar radial, volar ulnar, radial styloid) and examined which segment had fracture lines. For fractures involving the sigmoid notch, we divided them by the location and the direction of the fracture lines entering the sigmoid notch. Next, we categorized the fractures into 3 fracture groups (extension group, neutral group, and flexion group) by the dorsal or volar angulation of the cortex of the distal radius. In all the fractures and in each of the 3 fracture groups, we described the frequency of the fracture lines in each segment and the number of the segments with fracture lines. The location and the direction of the fracture lines in the sigmoid notch were analyzed in each of the 3 fracture groups. The most frequent fracture type, seen in 21% of all fractures, had fracture lines in the sigmoid notch and the dorsoulnar segment. The frequency of the fracture lines was 77% in the sigmoid notch, 71% in the dorsoulnar segment, and 57% in the dorsoradial segment. The volar ulnar segment was lowest in frequency, at 13%. The fractures in the extension group were more common in the dorsoulnar segment and less common in the dorsoradial segment and the radial styloid segment. The scaphoid facet always had a fracture in the flexion or neutral group. In the extension group, the direction of the fracture lines from the sigmoid notch was dorsoradial or parallel to the volar articular edge. In contrast, the direction was parallel or volar radial compared to the volar articular edge in the flexion group. We documented the location and the direction of intra-articular fracture lines of the distal radius. The location and the direction of fractures showed different tendencies related to the volar/dorsal angulation of the distal radius. The findings might help in the evaluation, classification, and treatment of intra-articular fractures of the distal radius."}
{"id": "21975097", "title": "Oblique ulnar styloid osteotomy--a treatment for ulnar styloid impaction syndrome.", "content": "Oblique ulnar styloid osteotomy--a treatment for ulnar styloid impaction syndrome. We report a series of 5 patients (mean age, 41 y) presenting with ulnar styloid impingement syndrome (USIS) and treated by an oblique ulnar styloid osteotomy. The purpose of the study was to determine whether the osteotomy is an effective method for treating USIS. The diagnosis of USIS was made based on a history of ulnar-sided wrist pain supported by clinical and radiological findings. Clinical assessment included provocative tests to differentiate USIS from pain associated with ulnocarpal impaction syndrome. The ulnar styloid length was assessed with a posteroanterior X-ray using the methods of Garcia-Elias and Biyani. The ulnar styloid was deemed excessively long if the ulnar styloid process index was greater than 0.21 or if the overall styloid length was greater than 6 mm. Ulnar variance was recorded. All wrists were assessed by computed tomography arthrography and magnetic resonance imaging studies to rule out any associated soft tissue abnormalities, including ligamentous injuries. Preoperative and postoperative pain levels were recorded using a pain scoring system. Patients were followed up for a mean of 46 months. Before surgery, the mean styloid length was 10 mm, and the ulnar styloid process index was 0.32. The reported pain score was significantly reduced following surgery and all patients, except one, returned to premorbid levels of activity. Oblique ulnar styloid osteotomy is an effective means of relieving impaction of the ulnar styloid while preserving the integrity of the intrinsic ulnar styloid ligaments. Therapeutic IV."}
{"id": "21960154", "title": "Diagnostic performance tests for suspected scaphoid fractures differ with conventional and latent class analysis.", "content": "Diagnostic performance tests for suspected scaphoid fractures differ with conventional and latent class analysis. Evaluation of the diagnostic performance characteristics of radiographic tests for diagnosing a true fracture among suspected scaphoid fractures is hindered by the lack of a consensus reference standard. Latent class analysis is a statistical method that takes advantage of unobserved, or latent, classes in the data that can be used to determine diagnostic performance characteristics when there is no consensus reference (gold) standard. We therefore compared the diagnostic performance characteristics of MRI, CT, bone scintigraphy, and physical examination to identify true fractures among suspected scaphoid fractures. We used data from two studies, one that prospectively studied 34 patients who had MRI and CT of the wrist, and a second that studied 78 patients who had MRI, bone scintigraphy, and structured physical examination. We compared the diagnostic performance characteristics calculated by latent class analysis with those calculated using formulas based on a reference standard. In the first cohort, the calculated sensitivity and specificity with latent class analysis were different than those with traditional reference standard-based calculations for the CT in the scaphoid planes (sensitivity, 0.78 versus 0.67; specificity, 1.0 versus 0.96) and the MRI (sensitivity, 0.80 versus 0.67; specificity, 0.93 versus 0.89). In the second cohort, the greatest differences were in the sensitivity of MRI (0.84 versus 0.75) and the sensitivities of physical examination maneuvers (range, 0.63-0.73 versus 1.0). The diagnostic performance characteristics calculated using latent class analysis may differ from those calculated according to formulas based on a reference standard. We believe latent class analysis merits further study as an option for assessing diagnostic performance characteristics for orthopaedic conditions when there is no consensus reference standard. Level II, prognostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "21957277", "title": "Navicular stress reactions in runners: a review of evaluation and management of a competitive athlete.", "content": "Navicular stress reactions in runners: a review of evaluation and management of a competitive athlete. Navicular stress injuries in athletes can be devastating. Clinical findings are frequently nonspecific until significant progression of the abnormality has occurred. The use of diagnostic imaging techniques early in the discovery period increases the likelihood of establishing an immediate diagnosis and avoids frank fracture of the navicular bone. Delayed diagnosis of navicular stress injuries in athletes can cause dire consequences. The physician must be aware of the injury in establishing a high index of clinical suspicion. The timing and sequencing of diagnostic imaging studies is essential in establishing a diagnosis to manage the patient and minimize time away from competition. This case study examines the history and management of an elite high school track athlete who sustained a navicular stress injury. The timing and use of diagnostic imaging studies is reviewed."}
{"id": "21927984", "title": "Non-vascularized bone graft with Herbert-type screw fixation for proximal pole scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Non-vascularized bone graft with Herbert-type screw fixation for proximal pole scaphoid nonunion. Since proximal pole fractures of the scaphoid are frequently overlooked, the poor vascularity in the proximal pole fragment often leads to nonunion. Vascularized bone grafts have been recently tested in cases with scaphoid proximal pole nonunion, but the indication for this treatment has not been well established. Alternatively, we have been treating such patients with a non-vascularized iliac bone graft and Herbert-type screw fixation with considerable success. The purpose of this investigation is to evaluate these cases retrospectively and clarify the surgical efficacy of our procedure. Between 1996 and 2009, 11 consecutive patients with proximal pole scaphoid nonunion were treated with a non-vascularized corticocancellous iliac bone graft and Herbert-type screw fixation. They were all male aged from 12 to 26 years. In two patients, avascular changes were recognized in the proximal pole in preoperative radiographs or MRI. Follow-up ranged from 12 to 76 months. Bone union was radiographically confirmed in all patients, who returned to their former activities without any complications. The period from operation to union ranged from 12 to 24 weeks. The mean Mayo modified wrist score was 76.4 points preoperatively and 91.4 points postoperatively, and was improved in all cases. A non-vascularized iliac bone graft with Herbert-type screw fixation obtained satisfactory clinical and radiographic results in cases with scaphoid proximal pole nonunion, regardless of the vascularity in the proximal fragment."}
{"id": "21920472", "title": "DRUJ instability after distal radius fracture: a comparison between cases with and without ulnar styloid fracture.", "content": "DRUJ instability after distal radius fracture: a comparison between cases with and without ulnar styloid fracture. Because of the importance of the DRUJ in upper extremity function and the prevalence of distal radius fractures, either with or without ulnar styloid fracture, this study was designed to assess the relationship between ulnar styloid fracture and the incidence of DRUJ instability after treatment of distal radius fractures treated with ORIF (volar plate). 112 patients suffering from type two and three distal radius fractures (Fernandez classification), were evaluated. Depending on the presence of ulnar styloid avulsion fracture, patients were divided into two groups: 86 cases with isolated radial fracture and 26 cases with a distal radius fracture accompanied by ulnar styloid fracture. All patients underwent distal radius fracture ORIF. CT scanning was done both immediately after surgery and 3 months post-op. DRUJ stability was examined using the modified radioulnar line method and the incidence of DRUJ instability was compared between the two groups. Immediate instability was seen in 11 patients. Three of these patients had concomitant ulnar styloid fracture and were excluded for further fixation. Three months later, another 9 cases were diagnosed with DRUJ instability, 2 of whom had concomitant ulnar styloid fracture and the other 7 suffered from isolated distal radius fracture. Chi-square test revealed no significant difference (p\u00a0<\u00a00.05). There were no cases of delayed union or non-union distal radius fracture. Our study demonstrated that untreated stable or minimally displaced ulnar styloid fracture accompanied by distal radius fracture, has no adverse effect on DRUJ stability following ORIF of the radius."}
{"id": "21888527", "title": "Forearm muscle size, strength, force, and power in relation to pQCT-derived bone strength at the radius in adults.", "content": "Forearm muscle size, strength, force, and power in relation to pQCT-derived bone strength at the radius in adults. We aimed to examine the relationship between forearm muscle cross-sectional area (MCSA), muscle force, or rate of torque development (RTD) and 2 estimated radius bone strength indices - compressive bone strength index (BSI) at the wrist and strength strain index in torsion (SSI(p)) at the shaft - in healthy middle-aged males and females. Distal (4%) and shaft (65%) sites of nondominant forearms were scanned using peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) in a sample of 48 adults (mean age \u00b1 SD, 49.4 \u00b1 2.4\u00a0y) to obtain estimated bone strength indices and MCSA. Muscle force, measured by grip dynamometry and wrist flexion RTD, was obtained using an isokinetic dynamometer. Hierarchical linear regressions, adjusted for weight, explained 27% and 36% of the BSI variance at the 4% site in males and premenopausal females, respectively (p\u00a0< 0.05). At the radius shaft, weight explained 26% (p\u00a0< 0.05) and 83% (p\u00a0< 0.01) of SSI(p) variance. The unique variance of BSI explained by MCSA was 16% in males (p\u00a0< 0.05) and 31% in females (p\u00a0< 0.01). Grip force predicted variance in SSI(p) in males (p\u00a0< 0.01) and BSI in females (p\u00a0< 0.05). RTD did not explain any variance in BSI or SSI(p). Body weight was the only significant predictor (p\u00a0< 0.05) of SSI(p) in females. Although forearm muscle size and grip strength are associated with estimates of radius bone strength at midlife, this relationship appears to be sex dependent. The differences observed between muscle size and strength properties and bone strength at distal and shaft sites of the radius suggest a property-, sex-, and site-specific relationship between muscle and bone in the forearm."}
{"id": "21885701", "title": "Perilunate dislocation and perilunate fracture-dislocation.", "content": "Perilunate dislocation and perilunate fracture-dislocation. Perilunate dislocations and perilunate fracture-dislocations usually result from high-energy traumatic injuries to the wrist and are associated with a characteristic spectrum of bony and ligamentous damage. Radiographic evaluation of the wrist reveals loss of normal radiocarpal and intercarpal colinearity and bony insult, which may be overlooked at the initial presentation. Prompt recognition is important to optimize outcomes. Closed reduction is performed acutely, followed by open reduction and ligamentous and bony repair with internal fixation. Complications include posttraumatic arthrosis, median nerve dysfunction, complex regional pain syndrome, tendon problems, and carpal instability. Despite appropriate treatment, loss of wrist motion and grip strength, as well as persistent pain, is common. Medium- and long-term studies demonstrate radiographic evidence of midcarpal and radiocarpal arthrosis, although this does not correlate with functional outcomes."}
{"id": "21885208", "title": "Ligament contribution to patterns of articular fractures of the distal radius.", "content": "Ligament contribution to patterns of articular fractures of the distal radius. Intra-articular fractures of the distal radius are common injuries, but the correlation between ligament attachments and fracture location is poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to assess the location of intra-articular fractures compared to the known ligament attachments of the distal radius. The authors retrospectively reviewed computed tomography scans of acute intra-articular distal radius fractures performed at 1 institution between 2001 and 2008. Of 145 scans, 45 were deemed unsuitable due to poor quality or presence of internal fixation in the distal radius, leaving 100 fractures for review. Fracture line locations of the distal radius were plotted to a standardized distal radius template and statistically analyzed for their relationship to known ligament attachments. Fracture lines were significantly more likely to occur at the intervals between the ligament attachments than at the ligament attachments. Common sites of fractures were the center of the sigmoid notch, between the short and long radiolunate ligaments, and the central and ulnar aspects of the scaphoid fossa dorsally. The sites of the ligament attachments to the distal radius were relatively protected. The likely site of the impaction of the carpus on the distal radius articular surface can often be construed from viewing the computed tomography scans, and the subsequent propagation of the fracture can be identified. Articular fractures of the distal radius are statistically more likely to occur between the ligament attachments. The ligamentous attachments of the distal radius to the volar carpus in an intra-articular distal radius fracture are relatively well preserved. Diagnostic III."}
{"id": "21849237", "title": "A comparison of 2 methods for scaphoid central screw placement from a volar approach.", "content": "A comparison of 2 methods for scaphoid central screw placement from a volar approach. We studied 2 methods used for screw placement through a volar approach for fixation of scaphoid fractures. We performed measurements on 20 computed tomography scans of unfractured scaphoids. A central virtual guidewire was computed in 10 scaphoids with the wrist in neutral or in extension and ulnar deviation. Second, we compared the central guidewire and a guidewire representing a volar approach to the scaphoid avoiding the trapezium. The central guidewire passed through the trapezium in all cases with the wrist either in neutral or in extension and ulnar deviation. There was a statistically significant difference only in the sagittal plane. When the central guidewire was compared with a guidewire placed through a standard volar approach, the latter was more eccentric in the distal and waist portions. We showed that central placement throughout the scaphoid with a standard volar approach is not feasible without partially resecting, manipulating, or drilling through the trapezium. Our data suggest that a volar transtrapezial approach can be an alternative for optimum central placement in volar percutaneous fixation of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21803508", "title": "Delays and poor management of scaphoid fractures: factors contributing to nonunion.", "content": "Delays and poor management of scaphoid fractures: factors contributing to nonunion. Scaphoid fracture nonunion remains prevalent, and it was our purpose to examine the initial care, fracture site, and patient gender and age to determine factors contributing to fracture nonunion. The charts of 96 consecutive patients with 99 scaphoid fracture nonunions were reviewed for demographic information, and contact was made with 85 patients (with 88 scaphoid nonunions) to determine the pattern of presentation and initial treatment, if any. Of the 88 scaphoid nonunions, 78 were in men, and 46 were sports injuries; 7 patients had no recollection of an injury. Twenty were proximal pole fractures. For 57 fractures, patients sought care following their injury, but only 42 were diagnosed with scaphoid fractures and received appropriate treatment, although one did not follow up in the clinic. Fifteen patients with nonunions did not receive radiographic investigations or did not have an identifiable fracture on initial x-rays and received no further follow-up or treatment. For 27 nonunions, medical attention was sought but was delayed, with an average time of 57 days between injury and initial assessment. For 31 fractures, medical attention was not sought for the acute injury but presented later following a re-injury (17 nonunions) or with progressive pain or stiffness (13 nonunions). The high rates of delayed presentation and incomplete evaluation and treatment suggest a strong need for better patient and doctor education on the subject of scaphoid injuries and nonunions particularly because the initial injury is, unfortunately, sometimes perceived as trivial. Nonunions do occur despite appropriate immobilization. Proximal pole fractures and fractures that show inadequate progression toward union while being treated in a cast should be considered for surgical intervention based on the high number of such cases identified in this study."}
{"id": "21791133", "title": "[Fractures of the hamate bone and metacarpal bone: a rare combination].", "content": "[Fractures of the hamate bone and metacarpal bone: a rare combination]. Fractures of the hamate bone are rare, but are being seen more frequently due to the increasing popularity of racket sports and golf. A 43-year-old man presented at our emergency department with a swollen, painful left hand after hitting a concrete wall with his fist. X-rays and CT scans revealed comminuted fracture of the hamate bone and the base of the fourth metacarpal bone. Open reduction and internal fixation, using screws and Kirschner wires, were performed. The postoperative course was uneventful. At one-year follow-up the patient had regained full use of his hand. On conventional X-rays, 60% of wrist fractures are missed. If the clinical picture indicates a fracture of the hamate bone but conventional X-rays reveal no abnormalities then a supplementary CT-scan is advisable. Non-displaced fractures, or fractures with little displacement, can be treated conservatively, but surgical treatment is preferred in the case of displacement or non-union."}
{"id": "21786564", "title": "[Value of spiral CT examination for diagnosis of occult fracture of ankle and foot].", "content": "[Value of spiral CT examination for diagnosis of occult fracture of ankle and foot]. To investigate the value of spiral CT examination for diagnosis occult fracture of the patients with negative result of X-ray examination and with high suspicion of fractures,so as to reduce misdiagnosis. From January 2007 to June 2010, 31 patients with ankle trauma performed spiral CT examination, including 18 males and 13 females, ranging in age from 21 to 67 years, with a mean of 35 years. The main symptoms of the patients included ankle pain, local swelling, obvious tenderness and activity limitation. All the patients had negative results of X-ray examination. The spiral CT examination revealed 11 patients with fractures, involving a total of 17 points. Single fracture were found in 6 cases,and multiple fractures were found in 5 cases. Among single fractures, the lateral malleolus fracture was found in 1 case, talus fracture was found in 1 case, scaphoid fracture was found in 1 case, the fracture of the base of 5th metatarsal base was found in 1 case and calcaneal fractures were found in 2 cases. Within multiple fractures,internal and lateral malleolus fracture were found in 1 case; medial malleolus, calcaneus and talus fractures were found in 1 case; talus and scaphoid fractures were found in 1 case; the fractures of 1st and 2nd cuneiform bone were found in 1 case; the 2nd and 3rd metatarsal base fracture was found in 1 case. For the patients with negative X-ray examination and high suspicion of fractures,the spiral CT examination is needed, which could significantly improve the detection rate of occult fractures, and provide imaging basis for clinical treatment and judicial identify."}
{"id": "21780848", "title": "The non-surgical and surgical treatment of tarsal navicular stress fractures.", "content": "The non-surgical and surgical treatment of tarsal navicular stress fractures. Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular, first described in 1970, were initially thought to be rare injuries. Heightened awareness and increased participation in athletics has resulted in more frequent diagnosis and more aggressive treatment. The vascular supply of the tarsal navicular results in a relatively avascular zone in the central one-third, which experiences severe compressive forces during explosive manoeuvers such as jumping and sprinting. Repetitive activities can result in stress reactions or even fracture. Patients often initially complain of vague midfoot pain localized to the medial border of the foot. The pain is usually exacerbated by activity and relieved with rest. The diagnosis of tarsal navicular stress fracture is challenging because of the high false negative rate of plain radiographs. Additional diagnostic testing with bone scan, CT and MRI are often required for diagnosis. The proper treatment of tarsal navicular stress fractures has become a topic of debate as surgical intervention for these injuries has increased. In a recent meta-analysis, Torg et al. found that 96% of tarsal navicular stress fractures treated with non-weight-bearing (NWB) conservative treatment for 5 weeks went on to successful outcomes. However, only 44% of patients treated with weight-bearing (WB) conservative treatment had successful outcomes. Surgical treatment resulted in successful outcome in 82% of patients. Interestingly, the meta-analysis also found that fracture type did not correlate with outcomes, regardless of treatment. The meta-analysis also found no difference in time to return to activity between patients treated surgically and those who underwent NWB conservative treatment. The recent literature indicates that patients are undergoing surgery or are receiving WB conservative management as a first-line treatment option with the expectation that they will return to their activity more quickly. Although surgical treatment seems increasingly common, the results statistically demonstrate an inferior trend to conservative NWB management. Conservative NWB management is the standard of care for initial treatment of both partial and complete stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. WB conservative treatment and surgical intervention are not recommended."}
{"id": "21733185", "title": "Fracture surgery of the extremities with the intra-operative use of 3D-RX: a randomized multicenter trial (EF3X-trial).", "content": "Fracture surgery of the extremities with the intra-operative use of 3D-RX: a randomized multicenter trial (EF3X-trial). Posttraumatic osteoarthritis can develop after an intra-articular extremity fracture, leading to pain and loss of function. According to international guidelines, anatomical reduction and fixation are the basis for an optimal functional result. In order to achieve this during fracture surgery, an optimal view on the position of the bone fragments and fixation material is a necessity. The currently used 2D-fluoroscopy does not provide sufficient insight, in particular in cases with complex anatomy or subtle injury, and even an 18-26% suboptimal fracture reduction is reported for the ankle and foot. More intra-operative information is therefore needed.Recently the 3D-RX-system was developed, which provides conventional 2D-fluoroscopic images as well as a 3D-reconstruction of bony structures. This modality provides more information, which consequently leads to extra corrections in 18-30% of the fracture operations. However, the effect of the extra corrections on the quality of the anatomical fracture reduction and fixation as well as on patient relevant outcomes has never been investigated.The objective of this study protocol is to investigate the effectiveness of the intra-operative use of the 3D-RX-system as compared to the conventional 2D-fluoroscopy in patients with traumatic intra-articular fractures of the wrist, ankle and calcaneus. The effectiveness will be assessed in two different areas: 1) the quality of fracture reduction and fixation, based on the current golden standard, Computed Tomography. 2) The patient-relevant outcomes like functional outcome range of motion and pain. In addition, the diagnostic accuracy of the 3D-RX-scan will be determined in a clinical setting and a cost-effectiveness as well as a cost-utility analysis will be performed. In this protocol for an international multicenter randomized clinical trial, adult patients (age > 17 years) with a traumatic intra-articular fracture of the wrist, ankle or calcaneus eligible for surgery will be subjected to additional intra-operative 3D-RX. In half of the patients the surgeon will be blinded to these results, in the other half the surgeon may use the 3D-RX results to further optimize fracture reduction. In both randomization groups a CT-scan will be performed postoperatively. Based on these CT-scans the quality of fracture reduction and fixation will be determined. During the follow-up visits after hospital discharge at 6 and 12 weeks and 1 year postoperatively the patient relevant outcomes will be determined by joint specific, health economic and quality of life questionnaires. In addition a follow up study will be performed to determine the patient relevant outcomes and prevalence of posttraumatic osteoarthritis at 2 and 5 years postoperatively. The results of the study will provide more information on the effectiveness of the intra-operative use of 3D-imaging during surgical treatment of intra-articular fractures of the wrist, ankle and calcaneus. A randomized design in which patients will be allocated to a treatment arm during surgery will be used because of its high methodological quality and the ability to detect incongruences in the reduction and/or fixation that occur intra-operatively in the blinded arm of the 3D-RX. An alternative, pragmatic design could be to randomize before the start of the surgery, then two surgical strategies would be compared. This resembles clinical practice better, but introduces more bias and does not allow the assessment of incongruences that would have been detected by 3D-RX in the blinded arm. Dutch Trial Register NTR 1902."}
{"id": "21712471", "title": "Is dynamic gadolinium enhancement needed in MR imaging for the preoperative assessment of scaphoidal viability in patients with scaphoid nonunion?", "content": "Is dynamic gadolinium enhancement needed in MR imaging for the preoperative assessment of scaphoidal viability in patients with scaphoid nonunion? To compare the accuracy of dynamic gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with that of standard MR imaging for assessing the viability of the proximal pole of the scaphoid in patients with nonunion. The study protocol was submitted to the institutional review board, and the need to obtain additional approval was waived for this retrospective study. Twenty-eight patients (mean age \u00b1 standard deviation, 24.3 years \u00b1 6.4) with nonunion of a scaphoid fracture underwent dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging of the wrist 28 days \u00b1 19 before surgery. Dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging consisted of acquisition of 40 consecutive coronal T1-weighted images over 1 minute. Two readers retrospectively evaluated MR images obtained with a standard protocol and rated the viability of the proximal scaphoid pole. The steepest upslope of gadolinium uptake was calculated in a region of interest placed in the proximal scaphoid pole by a third reader. Receiver operating characteristic curves were calculated, and the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (A(z) values) were compared. Diagnostic performance in determining scaphoid viability was calculated for readers 1 and 2. Histologic findings in 11 patients and surgical findings in all patients served as the standard of reference. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of standard MR imaging in the detection of scaphoid necrosis were 54%, 93%, and 75%, respectively, for reader 1 and 62%, 93%, and 78% for reader 2. Interreader reliability was excellent (\u03ba = 0.92). The A(z) was 0.82 for reader 1 and 0.87 for reader 2. The diagnostic performance of dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging, determined with the steepest upslope value, was inferior to that of standard MR imaging, with an A(z) of 0.57. Findings at histologic examination (viable bone, necrotic bone, callus formation) did not correlate with those at dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging. Because the diagnostic performance of dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging in the evaluation of scaphoid viability was inferior to that of a standard MR imaging protocol, dynamic acquisition may not be needed in patients with nonunion of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21705566", "title": "Percutaneous screw fixation without bone grafting for established scaphoid nonunion with substantial bone loss.", "content": "Percutaneous screw fixation without bone grafting for established scaphoid nonunion with substantial bone loss. Ununited fractures of the scaphoid with extensive bone resorption are usually treated by bone grafting and internal fixation, using either an open or a minimally invasive technique. We studied the feasibility of percutaneous fixation without bone grafting in a consecutive series of 27 patients with established nonunion of an undisplaced fracture of the scaphoid and extensive local resorption of bone. They were treated by a single surgeon with rigid fixation alone, using a headless cannulated screw inserted through a volar percutaneous technique. Clinical examination, standard radiographs and CT confirmed that the fracture had united in all patients at a mean of 11.6 weeks (8 to 16), and that their functional scores had improved. We concluded that extensive resorption at the fracture site is not an absolute indication for bone grafting, and that percutaneous fixation alone will eventually produce healing of ununited undisplaced fractures of the scaphoid regardless of the size of the gap."}
{"id": "21676555", "title": "Comparison of radiographic stress views for scapholunate dynamic instability in a cadaver model.", "content": "Comparison of radiographic stress views for scapholunate dynamic instability in a cadaver model. Many different stress views for the diagnosis of scapholunate (SL) instability have been described in the literature. The purpose of this study is to compare these stress views and determine which view has the greatest utility for demonstrating SL gap radiographically. We performed a literature search for articles describing SL radiographic stress views. We created SL instability in 9 cadaveric wrists by ligamentous sectioning and imaged each specimen using all radiographic views found in the literature. These included the \"clenched pencil\" view, clenched fist views in varying positions, and traction views. Scapholunate gaps were measured using digital calipers. We found 8 different SL radiographic stress views specifically described in the literature. In order to further characterize the best stress views, we studied additional parameters, including varied ulnar deviation and degree of obliquity. The clenched pencil view resulted in the most consistent views with the widest SL gaps. With clenched fist views, SL gap trended to a peak at 30\u00b0 of ulnar deviation. The clenched pencil view was the best stress view to demonstrate dynamic SL instability. It also allows for a contralateral comparison on 1 radiograph. We recommend this view when evaluating for SL pathology. This assessment of relative diagnostic utility might assist clinicians in the creation and use of protocols for the diagnosis of dynamic SL instability."}
{"id": "21612996", "title": "Post-traumatic malunion of the distal radius treated with autologous costal cartilage graft: a technical note on seven cases.", "content": "Post-traumatic malunion of the distal radius treated with autologous costal cartilage graft: a technical note on seven cases. Seven cases of post-traumatic intra-articular malunion of the distal radius treated using costal cartilage graft with a minimum follow-up of 2 years are reported. Location of the articular defect was dorsal in two cases and volar in the others. The approach (dorsal or volar) depended on the main location of the defect. A costal cartilage graft harvested on the eighth rib was implanted in a trough created at the epiphysis metaphyseal junction. This trough removed the defective area on the distal radius articular surface. A plate or wire fixation was used to stabilize in place the graft. Plaster cast wear was prescribed for 3 months in the first case and for 1 month in the other cases following joint reconstruction. No complications were observed. Union was achieved in all seven cases. Graft integration and viability were evaluated with MRI and biopsy. At the longest follow-up, the functional results were excellent in the first (youngest) case (male, 22 years old) in whom motion and grasp were similar to the contralateral side. In the other cases of malunion, the patients were pain-free in daily activities with a functional wrist score of 72/100 (range, 54-82) and a DASH score of 38.3 (range, 22.5-51.7). Only the case with a septic problem failed, with pain reported at follow-up. Reconstruction of a partially destroyed articular surface using a costal graft is reliable and allows filling and resurfacing an articular cartilage void. Although costal cartilage graft is currently used in maxillofacial surgery, this is the first report in post-traumatic osteoarthritis secondary to intra-articular malunion. Level IV."}
{"id": "21586789", "title": "Avascular necrosis of the scaphoid in children treated by splint immobilisation: a report of two cases.", "content": "Avascular necrosis of the scaphoid in children treated by splint immobilisation: a report of two cases. Avascular necrosis of the scaphoid following a fracture in children is rare and there is no established treatment protocol in the literature. We present two boys with nonunion and avascular necrosis of the scaphoid treated by simple immobilisation. Both cases healed with painless wrists and full movements. Our cases confirm that an ununited scaphoid fracture in children may heal with conservative treatment, even when an MRI scan suggests avascular necrosis. Unlike in adults, operative treatment need only be considered in children when conservative treatment fails."}
{"id": "21586765", "title": "Assessment of the suspected fracture of the scaphoid.", "content": "Assessment of the suspected fracture of the scaphoid. A suspected fracture of the scaphoid remains difficult to manage despite advances in knowledge and imaging methods. Immobilisation and restriction of activities in a young and active patient must be balanced against the risks of nonunion associated with an undiagnosed and undertreated fracture of the scaphoid. The assessment of diagnostic tests for a suspected fracture of the scaphoid must take into account two important factors. First, the prevalence of true fractures among suspected fractures is low, which greatly reduces the probability that a positive test will correspond with a true fracture, as false positives are nearly as common as true positives. This situation is accounted for by Bayesian statistics. Secondly, there is no agreed reference standard for a true fracture, which necessitates the need for an alternative method of calculating diagnostic performance characteristics, based upon a statistical method which identifies clinical factors tending to associate (latent classes) in patients with a high probability of fracture. The most successful diagnostic test to date is MRI, but in low-prevalence situations the positive predictive value of MRI is only 88%, and new data have documented the potential for false positive scans. The best strategy for improving the diagnosis of true fractures among suspected fractures of the scaphoid may well be to develop a clinical prediction rule incorporating a set of demographic and clinical factors which together increase the pre-test probability of a fracture of the scaphoid, in addition to developing increasingly sophisticated radiological tests."}
{"id": "21548951", "title": "Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields in the treatment of fresh scaphoid fractures. A multicenter, prospective, double blind, placebo controlled, randomized trial.", "content": "Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields in the treatment of fresh scaphoid fractures. A multicenter, prospective, double blind, placebo controlled, randomized trial. The scaphoid bone is the most commonly fractured of the carpal bones. In the Netherlands 90% of all carpal fractures is a fracture of the scaphoid bone. The scaphoid has an essential role in functionality of the wrist, acting as a pivot. Complications in healing can result in poor functional outcome. The scaphoid fracture is a troublesome fracture and failure of treatment can result in avascular necrosis (up to 40%), non-union (5-21%) and early osteo-arthritis (up to 32%) which may seriously impair wrist function. Impaired consolidation of scaphoid fractures results in longer immobilization and more days lost at work with significant psychosocial and financial consequences.Initially Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields was used in the treatment of tibial pseudoarthrosis and non-union. More recently there is evidence that physical forces can also be used in the treatment of fresh fractures, showing accelerated healing by 30% and 71% reduction in nonunion within 12 weeks after initiation of therapy. Until now no double blind randomized, placebo controlled trial has been conducted to investigate the effect of this treatment on the healing of fresh fractures of the scaphoid. This is a multi center, prospective, double blind, placebo controlled, randomized trial. Study population consists of all patients with unilateral acute scaphoid fracture. Pregnant women, patients having a life supporting implanted electronic device, patients with additional fractures of wrist, carpal or metacarpal bones and pre-existing impairment in wrist function are excluded. The scaphoid fracture is diagnosed by a combination of physical and radiographic examination (CT-scanning).Proven scaphoid fractures are treated with cast immobilization and a small Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields bone growth stimulating device placed on the cast. Half of the devices will be disabled at random in the factory.Study parameters are clinical consolidation, radiological consolidation evaluated by CT-scanning, functional status of the wrist, including assessment by means of the patient rated wrist evaluation (PRWE) questionnaire and quality of life using SF-36 health survey questionnaire.Primary endpoint is number of scaphoid unions at six weeks, secondary endpoints are time interval to clinical and radiological consolidation, number of non-unions, functional status at 52 weeks and non-adherence to the treatment protocol. Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTR2064."}
{"id": "21548157", "title": "Severe isolated trapezoid fracture: a case report.", "content": "Severe isolated trapezoid fracture: a case report. Isolated trapezoid fractures are rare. We present a case of severe isolated trapezoid fracture associated with bone loss and proximal migration of the second metacarpal, which was treated successfully by open reduction and internal fixation with bone grafting and joint fusion."}
{"id": "21544680", "title": "Quantitative assessment of trabecular bone micro-architecture of the wrist via 7 Tesla MRI: preliminary results.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of trabecular bone micro-architecture of the wrist via 7 Tesla MRI: preliminary results. The goal of this study was to determine the feasibility of performing quantitative 7 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) assessment of trabecular bone micro-architecture of the wrist, a common fracture site. The wrists of 4 healthy subjects (1 woman, 3 men, 28 \u00b1 8.9 years) were scanned on a 7 T whole body MR scanner using a 3D fast low-angle shot (FLASH) sequence (TR/TE = 20/4.5 m s, 0.169 \u00d7 0.169 \u00d7 0.5 mm). Trabecular bone was segmented and divided into 4 or 8 angular subregions. Total bone volume (TBV), bone volume fraction (BVF), surface-curve ratio (SC), and erosion index (EI) were computed. Subjects were scanned twice to assess measurement reproducibility. Group mean subregional values for TBV, BVF, SC, and EI (8 subregion analysis) were as follows: 8489 \u00b1 3686, 0.27 \u00b1 0.045, 9.61 \u00b1 6.52; and 1.43 \u00b1 1.25. Within each individual, there was subregional variation in TBV, SC, and EI (>5%), but not BVF (<5%). Intersubject variation (\u226512%) existed for all parameters. Within-subject coefficients of variation were \u226410%. This is the first study to perform quantitative 7T MRI assessment of trabecular bone micro-architecture of the wrist. This method could be utilized to study perturbations in bone structure in subjects with osteoporosis or other bone disorders."}
{"id": "21534184", "title": "[Mental practice has influence on limitation of motion and muscle atrophy following immobilisation of the radiocarpal joint - a prospective randomised experimental study].", "content": "[Mental practice has influence on limitation of motion and muscle atrophy following immobilisation of the radiocarpal joint - a prospective randomised experimental study]. Distal radial fracture is the most common bony injury in man. Still there are unsatisfying treatment results, such as limited joint movement, muscle atrophy and pain, resulting from immobilisation while the fracture is healing. During this period, also joint movement seems to be \"forgotten\". This study experimentally examined if the method of mental practice, meaning the systematic repetition of a consciously imagined movement or action without simultaneous practical execution, can positively influence these findings. 21 right-handed males had application of a circular forearm plaster for immobilisation of their left radiocarpal joint, simulating a distal radial fracture for three weeks. Following randomisation, half of the study participants learned mental practice for \"virtual movement\" of their radiocarpal joint and had to perform it, the others were not treated at all. At beginning and end of the experiment, joint movement was measured, and an MRI examination of the forearm muscles was performed. The brain (cortex) areas, responsible for radiocarpal joint movement, were examined concerning their activity with functional MRI at the beginning and also at the end of the three weeks. The experiment was also performed on three \"real\" patients suffering from a distal radial fracture demanding plaster immobilisation, all of them were mentally treated. Mental practice significantly ameliorated dorsal extension and ulnar abduction after plaster removal in comparison to those not having been mentally trained. Muscle atrophy of forearm muscles, measured via MRI, was significantly less in those having mental training. The cortex areas responsible for radiocarpal joint movements (supplementary motor area, precentral gyrus, putamen, nucleus caudatus, prefrontal cortex, thalamus and cerebellum) showed significant signal changes at the end of the three weeks in those having been mentally trained. There were significant correlations between MRI and functional MRI findings. The findings in the three \"real\" patients were similiar. The results of this experimental study show that mental practice can have a positive influence on the outcome of distal radial fractures demanding immobilisation. A study with a larger number of \"real patients\" should follow."}
{"id": "21528434", "title": "[Midcarpal fusion with the spider plate].", "content": "[Midcarpal fusion with the spider plate]. Pain relief while preserving wrist motion in advanced carpal collapse. Advanced carpal collapse stage II/III due to scaphoid non-union, scapholunate ligament tear, idiopathic radiocarpal osteoarthritis, aseptic osteonecrosis of the scaphoid (Preisser's disease). A relative indication is chronic midcarpal instability. Osteoarthrisis of the lunate. Radiocarpal instability with ulnar translation of the wrist. Dorsal curved incision between the 3rd and 4th dorsal extensor compartment. Partial wrist denervation (posterior interosseous nerve). Raising of a radial pedicled capsule flap. Complete extirpation of the scaphoid without fragmentation. Cartilage removal of all the joint facets for arthrodesis. Reduction of the lunate and temporary fixation with K wires between the triquetrum and capitate and the triquetrum and lunate. Milling the plate hole exactly in central position of the four carpal bones. The plate should not protrude from the bone to avoid impingement with the dorsal limb of the radius. Transferring of spongiosa harvested from the removed scaphoid into the arthrodesis gap. Fixation of the 8-hole plate with 2 screws in each of the four carpal bones. Fluoroscopy of the screw fitting. Control of the correct wrist articulation (motion test). Lavage of the wrist. Suture of the capsule flap. Redon drain, wound closure, dorsal splinting. Dorsal splint for 3 weeks; finger mobilization up to complete fist closure starting on postoperative day 1. From week 4-6, active wrist motion, from week 7-10 with increasing load. Return to work after 11-12 weeks. CT scan in cases of delayed union, abnormal function, or persistence of pain. Between 2002 and 2008, 36 four-corner fusions (32 male, 4 female) with the spider plate were performed in 24 right and 12 left wrists. The mean age of the patients at surgery was 48 years (range 32-71 years). Follow-up examinations were performed in 11 patients. The Krimmer and Rudolf scores were determined: 1 excellent, 7 good, 2 satisfactory, and 1 poor result were found. The mean grip strength was 51% relative to the opposite wrist. The mean range of motion (ROM) for wrist extension/flexion was 56% of the opposite side. Wrist extension/flexion averaged 24/0/32\u00b0 and ulnar/radial deviation was on average 20/0/19\u00b0. Pain during activity was on average 2.2 based on the visual analogue scale (0-10). One delayed bony union due to a screw breakage, which required total wrist fusion, was observed."}
{"id": "21527146", "title": "Optimization of volar percutaneous screw fixation for scaphoid waist fractures using traction, positioning, imaging, and an angiocatheter guide.", "content": "Optimization of volar percutaneous screw fixation for scaphoid waist fractures using traction, positioning, imaging, and an angiocatheter guide. Percutaneous screw fixation of nondisplaced or reducible scaphoid fractures has become more popular as techniques and implants have improved. Many authors have advocated for the dorsal approach, citing difficulties with adequate screw placement from the volar approach. We have developed a straightforward and reproducible technique for volar percutaneous scaphoid screw fixation that mitigates most of the drawbacks of the approach. The wrist is held in extension and ulnar deviation with traction through the thumb. A 14-gauge angiocatheter needle is then used to localize the starting point and as a cannula for the guide wire. Specific fluoroscopic views help to confirm optimal guide wire placement."}
{"id": "21515805", "title": "Clinical and computed tomography evaluation of surgical outcomes in tarsal navicular stress fractures.", "content": "Clinical and computed tomography evaluation of surgical outcomes in tarsal navicular stress fractures. As clinical suspicion increases and radiographic evaluation improves, navicular stress fractures are becoming a more recognized injury. To date, there is a small volume of literature examining these stress fractures, particularly as it pertains to outcomes of surgical management. To evaluate the clinical and computed tomography (CT) outcomes of surgically treated navicular stress fractures. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Ten navicular stress fractures in 10 patients were available for follow-up at an average of 42.4 months postoperatively (range, 16.8-79.9). These patients underwent a clinical examination and a CT scan of their operatively treated foot. The American Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Society (AOFAS) and SF-36 scores were completed for each fracture at the time of examination. The CT scans were blindly evaluated for bony union. According to the CT scan evaluation, 8 of 10 navicula (80%) had gone on to union. Clinical outcome scores on all patients were an average AOFAS hindfoot score of 88.5 and an average SF-36 score of 88.3. The feet with united fractures had an average AOFAS score of 92.1 (range, 83-100) and an average SF-36 score of 91.9 (range, 79-98). The 2 patients with nonunions had AOFAS scores of 74 and 74 and SF-36 scores of 70 and 78, respectively. Both nonunions were complete, displaced fractures on preoperative imaging. In our series of operatively treated navicular stress fractures, 80% went on to union, as verified by CT scan. Patients with united fractures had a clinically significant improvement in outcome, with higher AOFAS and SF-36 scores as compared with the 2 patients with nonunions. Patients with complete, displaced navicular stress fractures may be more likely to develop nonunions."}
{"id": "21514744", "title": "Ununited fracture of the proximal pole of the scaphoid with avascular necrosis.", "content": "Ununited fracture of the proximal pole of the scaphoid with avascular necrosis."}
{"id": "21497809", "title": "Does scaphoid bone bruising lead to occult fracture? A prospective study of 50 patients.", "content": "Does scaphoid bone bruising lead to occult fracture? A prospective study of 50 patients. Bone bruising of the scaphoid is a term reported when magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is carried out for scaphoid injury. The aim of our study was twofold: to see if bone bruising alone without fracture of the scaphoid bone seen on initial MRI, in a clinically symptomatic (tender) patient at 10-14 days, progressed to fracture, and to define how this entity of bone bruising should be managed. This was a prospective study looking at 170 patients with scaphoid injuries, of which 50 had bone bruising without fracture. These were followed up for at least 8 weeks to ascertain whether or not they had developed a fracture. They were assessed for continuity or resolution of their symptoms by way of clinical examination and/or a further MRI and X-ray (scaphoid views). Of the 170 scaphoid injuries identified, there were 120 scaphoid fractures seen on scaphoid view radiographs. The remaining 50 were clinically symptomatic and had MRI scaphoid imaging, which demonstrated various grades of bone bruising. All were treated in a scaphoid plaster, and re-examined at 8 weeks. There were four patients who remained symptomatic, for whom MRI scans were performed, which revealed all four with resolving scaphoid bone bruising, and one with a scaphoid fracture (p value=0.0386). Incidentally, 2 further weeks of immobilisation resolved the symptoms of those four patients. The one patient with a fracture was offered further treatment for the risk of progressing to a nonunion. Bone bruising detected on MRI without fracture is an important entity, and can lead to occult fracture (2%). It can take anywhere up to 8 weeks to declare. Treatment for bone bruising should be with a scaphoid cast and follow-up X-ray."}
{"id": "21489719", "title": "Interference screw fixation versus Pulvertaft weave in a simulated early-motion suspensionplasty protocol.", "content": "Interference screw fixation versus Pulvertaft weave in a simulated early-motion suspensionplasty protocol. To compare interference screw fixation to Pulvertaft weave fixation in a cadaveric basal joint abductor pollicis longus (APL) suspensionplasty model with an early range of motion protocol. We asked whether the interference screw fixation would provide comparable initial stability while minimizing the dorsal incision and eliminating the prominent dorsal mass associated with the traditional Pulvertaft weave. Six matched cadaveric forearms underwent suspensionplasty with tendon fixation via an interference screw or a Pulvertaft weave. We then loaded the specimens to 10,000 cycles and used a modification of a previously validated cyclic pinch model. One third of the load required for maximal pinch strength was used. The APL was not loaded because we used the tendon for ligament reconstruction. We obtained measurements of residual trapezial space with feeler gauges after trapeziectomy, after suspensionplasty, and at 1,000-cycle intervals. Suspensionplasty with interference screw fixation maintained statistically significantly larger trapezial space heights compared with the Pulvertaft weave. Moreover, after the first 1,000 cycles, none of the specimens fixed with the interference screw lost further height up to the 10,000th cycle. All of the specimens fixed with the Pulvertaft weave continued to lose height with cycling, and 1 specimen showed contact of the first metacarpal with the scaphoid after only 1,000 cycles. With interference screw fixation, the height achieved initially and maintained through 10,000 cycles was an average of 5.5 mm. When the Pulvertaft weave was used, the height achieved was 3.0 mm initially, declining to 2.3 mm after 10,000 cycles. The polylactic acid interference screw was placed through a 5-mm dorsal stab incision and the extra tendon graft was cut flush as it exited the bone tunnel, eliminating the dorsal prominence associated with the Pulvertaft weave. Although traditional APL suspensionplasty with a Pulvertaft weave provides good initial stability, it requires a large dorsal incision and leaves a prominent dorsal mass that may be bothersome to some patients."}
{"id": "21467089", "title": "Displaced scaphoid waist fractures: the use of a week 4 CT scan to predict the likelihood of union with nonoperative treatment.", "content": "Displaced scaphoid waist fractures: the use of a week 4 CT scan to predict the likelihood of union with nonoperative treatment. This study assessed whether nonunion of displaced scaphoid waist fractures with nonoperative treatment could be predicted from 4 week CT scans. Thirty-one patients with unilateral displaced scaphoid waist fractures and adequate follow-up were included. CT scans in the longitudinal axis of the scaphoid with sagittal and coronal slices were done 4 weeks after the index injury. The effects of fracture gap, sclerosis and bone resorption on union were assessed. Fracture union was observed in all 13 displaced fractures with a < 2 mm gap, four of the seven with a gap of 2-3 mm and only four of the 11 with a gap > 3 mm (p = 0.01). Bone resorption involving more than 50% of the fracture cross-section was also associated with nonunion, but sclerosis was not."}
{"id": "21455837", "title": "Scaphotrapezial ligament: normal arthro-CT and arthro-MRI appearance with anatomical and clinical correlation.", "content": "Scaphotrapezial ligament: normal arthro-CT and arthro-MRI appearance with anatomical and clinical correlation. The purpose of our study was to demonstrate and describe the MR and arthro-CT anatomic appearance of the scaphotrapezial ligament and illustrate some of the pathologies involving this structure. This ligament consists of two slips that originate from the radiopalmar aspect of the scaphoid tuberosity and extend distally, forming a V shape. The ulnar fibers, which are just radial to the flexor carpi radialis sheath, inserted along the trapezial ridge. The radial fibers were found to be thinner and inserted at the radial aspect of the trapezium. Twelve fresh cadaver wrists were dissected, with close attention paid to the scaphotrapezio-trapezoidal (STT) joint. An osseoligamentous specimen was dissected with removal of all musculotendinous structures around the STT joint and was performed with high-resolution acquisition in a 128-MDCT scanner. Samples of the wrist area were collected from two fetal specimens. A retrospective study of 55 patients with wrist pain that were submitted to arthrography, arthro-CT, and arthro-MRI imaging was performed (10 patients on a 3-T superconducting magnet and 45 patients on a 1.5-T system). Another ten patients had high-resolution images on a 3-T superconducting magnet without arthrographic injection. MR arthrography and arthro-CT improved visualization and provided detailed information about the anatomy of the scaphotrapezial ligament. Knowledge of the appearance of this normal ligament on MRI allows accurate diagnosis of lesions and will aid when surgery is indicated or may have a role in avoiding unnecessary immobilization."}
{"id": "21449158", "title": "[Isolated fractures of the scaphoid: classification, treatment and outcome].", "content": "[Isolated fractures of the scaphoid: classification, treatment and outcome]. Scaphoid fracture is the most common fracture in carpal bone of the wrist and represents 11% of all upper extremity fractures. In most cases, the mechanism of injury is a fall with an outstretched hand. Scaphoid fracture detection can be made by clinical examination and standard radiography. Computed tomography (CT), bone scan and MRI improve the sensitivity of the diagnosis. Non-displaced fractures of the scaphoid are treated with cast immobilization in most cases. Operative treatment should be considered in displaced fractures or non-displaced fractures in young active patients by using internal fixation with cannulated screw for definitive anatomic and stable fixation. The main goals of operative treatment are attempts to reduce immobilization time and enable earlier return to work and activity. Displaced fractures of scaphoid, should be treated operatively, as they carry a greater risk for nonunion and malunion, which are associated with the development of radiocarpal arthritis, stiffness and wrist instability. Computed tomography is more useful as an assessment tool in pre-operative planning to determine the fracture location and fragment displacement. Early detection and appropriate treatment of scaphoid fractures is the key to favorable outcome in the treatment of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21448737", "title": "Successful delayed surgical treatment of a scaphocapitate fracture.", "content": "Successful delayed surgical treatment of a scaphocapitate fracture. The scaphocapitate fracture syndrome is a rare entity of a perilunate fracture-dislocation. The diagnosis is frequently missed at initial presentation to a physician. Usually, a CT scan is required to reveal the extent of the lesion. Operative treatment consists of open reduction and internal fixation with screws (e.g. headless compression screw) or Kirschner wires. We report on a case of a 19-year-old man who presented to our hospital 2 months after he fell on his left wrist. He complained about persistent pain and a decreased range of motion after conservative treatment in a short arm cast. The diagnosis was finally made by a CT scan and the patient was treated operatively using headless compression screws in both the capitate and the scaphoid. After 12 weeks, fractures were completely healed radiographically and the patient returned to work. At follow-up 16 months after trauma, the patient had no further complaints. Range of motion increased and no avascular necrosis could be observed."}
{"id": "21446799", "title": "Spatial measurement for safe placement of screws within the scaphoid using three-dimensional analysis.", "content": "Spatial measurement for safe placement of screws within the scaphoid using three-dimensional analysis. The placement of a headless screw within the scaphoid is important for successful fixation of fractured scaphoids. We ascertained the safe position of a screw using virtual collision experiments on a three-dimensionally reconstructed scaphoid bone and screw model, and applied measured angles to simple radiographs. We used images from computed tomograms of the wrists taken from 13 men to reconstruct a three-dimensional cortical image of the scaphoid. Inside the bone, we inserted a virtually reconstructed Herbert screw model and calculated the safe angle along the long axis of the scaphoid at which the screw did not collide with the bone in any sample, then applied measured safe angles to simple anteroposterior and lateral radiographs. In all experiments, the safe angle between the screw and the anteroposterior scaphoid line (defined from the most distal portion of the scaphoid where it met the capitate to the proximal position where the lunate and capitate meet) ranged from 8\u00b0 to 27\u00b0 in the anteroposterior view, and the safe angle between the screw and the lateral scaphoid line (defined from the most volar portion of the scaphoid tuberosity to the volar position where the scaphoid faced the radius) ranged from 2\u00b0 to 26\u00b0 in the lateral view. These ranges can be used as a guide for a safe position of the screw within the scaphoid in volar percutaneous fixation of screws in scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21445650", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures in childhood].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures in childhood]. This article reviews current knowledge about scaphoid fractures in children and adolescents, including the development of the scaphoid, its injuries and age-specific treatment for acute and late presenting fractures. The following recommendations are based on the literature, although scientific evidence to support treatment strategies is scarce. The diagnosis of scaphoid fractures is often missed on initial X-rays. Therefore all suspected fractures should be treated with a thumb spica cast for 2\u00a0weeks, followed by clinical examination and repeat X-ray if symptoms persist. In cases of negative X-ray findings an MRI or alternatively a CT scan are indicated. None or minimally displaced paediatric scaphoid fractures should be treated in a spica cast for at least 7 weeks until union is documented. Unlike in adults, evidence has not been provided for a benefit of routine surgical therapy. Late presenting non-unions that have not yet been treated adequately warrant a trial of conservative therapy, because healing can be expected under prolonged immobilisation. Surgical treatment should be reserved for dislocated fractures, established pseudarthroses that have not united under adequate conservative treatment or for patients to whom prolonged immobilisation does not appear to be acceptable."}
{"id": "21436323", "title": "Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal Infirmary. BET 1. Clinical tests for scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal Infirmary. BET 1. Clinical tests for scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21414729", "title": "Analysis of wrist motion following vascularized bone graft to the proximal scaphoid.", "content": "Analysis of wrist motion following vascularized bone graft to the proximal scaphoid. To determine whether there is any motion loss associated with the 1,2 intracompartmental supraretinacular artery (ICSRA) bone graft to the dorsal scaphoid. The null hypothesis is that placement of a vascularized bone graft in the dorsal scaphoid does not lead to a significant change in range of motion. Seven fresh-frozen cadaveric upper extremities were examined. Simulated 1,2 ICSRA bone grafts were harvested and placed into a dorsal trough made in the proximal scaphoid. Wrist motion measurements were performed before and after 1,2 ICSRA bone graft implantation. There were no significant changes in wrist motion following 1,2 ICSRA bone graft implantation. Properly placed 1,2 ICSRA vascularized bone grafts for treatment of proximal scaphoid nonunions do not by themselves cause loss of wrist motion. Loss of motion following the treatment of proximal scaphoid nonunions with properly placed 1,2 ICSRA vascularized bone grafts are due to factors other than the bone graft itself."}
{"id": "21411241", "title": "Quantitative 3-dimensional computed tomography measurement of volar shearing fractures of the distal radius.", "content": "Quantitative 3-dimensional computed tomography measurement of volar shearing fractures of the distal radius. We used a method for quantitative measurement of articular surface area based on 3-dimensional computed tomography (CT) images to test the hypothesis that among volar shearing fractures of the distal radius, complete articular fractures have on average larger volar fracture fragments than partial articular fractures. We analyzed 25 adult patients with a quantitative 3-dimensional CT scan of a volar shearing fracture of the distal radius. We identified 3 major fracture patterns: 10 fractures were complete articular fractures (AO C-type; complete dorsal fracture line); 8 fractures had an intact dorsal lunate facet (radial dorsal fracture line; labeled transitional type B fractures); and 7 fractures had no dorsal fracture (true AO type B partial articular fractures). All of the type C and transitional type B fractures, but only one of the true type B fractures had a split (fragmentation) in the dorsal articular surface (p < .001). Four of 10 type C, 6 of 8 partial type B and 2 of 7 type B fractures had fragmentation of the volar articular surface (p = .19). The articular surface area of the volar fragments in type B fractures tended to be larger (average 56%; range, 38% to 78% of the total articular surface area) compared with partial type B (average 42; range, 28% to 51%) and type C (47%; range, 25% to 68%) fractures although the differences were not statistically significant with the numbers available. We identified 3 major volar shearing fracture patterns (complete, transitional partial, and partial articular). Although the differences in the average volar fractures surface area were not statistically significant with the numbers available, complete fractures and transitional partial fractures (intact dorsal lunate facet) were significantly more likely to have dorsal comminution."}
{"id": "21359934", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of multidetector computed tomography for patients with suspected scaphoid fractures and negative radiographic examinations.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of multidetector computed tomography for patients with suspected scaphoid fractures and negative radiographic examinations. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) in detecting occult scaphoid fractures. A total of 54 patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and negative initial conventional radiographs were evaluated with 64-row MDCT wrist examinations within 1 week of the trauma. The gold standard used was the diagnosis on MRI done within 1 week after MDCT. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of MDCT were calculated. MRI showed a total of 22 fractures in 20 of 55 (36%) wrists. Fractures included 14 scaphoid and 8 other carpal bones. MDCT showed a total of 19 fractures in 17 of 55 (30%) wrists. Two isolated scaphoid fractures and one trapezium fracture were missed on MDCT. The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV of MDCT were 86%, 100%, 100%, and 91%, respectively. MDCT offers highly accurate results, especially concerning cortical involvement, and is a useful alternative in facilities lacking MRI."}
{"id": "21349656", "title": "Avascular necrosis of the scaphoid after three-ligament tenodesis for scapholunate dissociation: case report.", "content": "Avascular necrosis of the scaphoid after three-ligament tenodesis for scapholunate dissociation: case report. An unusual complication after tenodesis for scapholunate instability (Brunelli's technique) is described. More than 1 year after the procedure, a fracture of the scaphoid with collapse was observed. Further examination concluded there was avascular necrosis of the scaphoid. The patient was treated with a proximal row carpectomy."}
{"id": "21348035", "title": "Non-union of an undisplaced radial styloid fracture in a heavy smoker: revisiting the association of smoking and bone healing.", "content": "Non-union of an undisplaced radial styloid fracture in a heavy smoker: revisiting the association of smoking and bone healing. Isolated radial styloid fractures occur relatively infrequently, with non-union of such fractures, especially when undisplaced, being highly unusual. Smoking of tobacco, a common habit which is decreasing in prevalence in the developed world, has been proven to exert many adverse effects on tissue healing including bone union. We present a case of non-union of an undisplaced radial styloid fracture in the dominant hand of a young and healthy heavy smoker, emphasising the negative impact of tobacco smoke and its association with bone repair. We suggest that heavy tobacco users should also be followed up more vigilantly with this complication in mind, with smoking cessation modalities being offered on presentation."}
{"id": "21276891", "title": "Prevalence of carpal fracture in Singapore.", "content": "Prevalence of carpal fracture in Singapore. To determine the prevalence of carpal fracture in Singapore, to compare demographic differences between isolated scaphoid and other carpal fractures, and to identify parameters associated with multiple carpal fractures. A total of 149 patients with 162 carpal fractures seen at the National University Hospital in 2009 were enrolled into the study. We retrospectively reviewed their case records and radiographic studies. Pertinent demographic data including patient age, gender, occupation, injured wrist, dominant hand, mechanism of injury, and type of carpal fracture were then recorded and statistically analyzed. We also performed a separate analysis of isolated scaphoid versus other carpal fractures and single versus multiple carpal fractures. Patients with carpal fracture were predominantly male (132), below 40 years of age (116), and usually right hand dominant (136). The more common occupations were students (30), full-time military national servicemen (24), and construction workers (14). Most presented after a fall on an outstretched hand from standing height (81). The scaphoid was the most common single carpal fracture (99). This was followed by triquetrum (27), hamate (5), pisiform (4), lunate (2), capitate (1), and trapezium (1). No fracture of the trapezoid was encountered. Ten patients had multiple carpal fractures, of which 4 were perilunate fracture dislocations. The mean age and male/female ratio for isolated scaphoid and other carpal fractures was 26 years versus 41 years (p<.001) and 13:1 versus 4:1 (p=.036), respectively. A high-energy mechanism of injury was the only parameter associated with multiple carpal fractures (p=.009). The prevalence of carpal fracture in our population was consistent with studies performed in other countries. Military conscription was identified as an at-risk activity predisposing to carpal fracture. Isolated scaphoid and other carpal fractures exhibit different demographics in terms of age and gender, which may be related to differences in the mechanism of injury. A high-energy mechanism of injury was associated with multiple carpal fractures."}
{"id": "21246476", "title": "[Bilateral metachronous complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS I) of the lands - diagnosis with quantitative TPBS (3 phase scintigraphy)].", "content": "[Bilateral metachronous complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS I) of the lands - diagnosis with quantitative TPBS (3 phase scintigraphy)]."}
{"id": "21234740", "title": "[Carpal instability].", "content": "[Carpal instability]. Carpal instability can be understood as a disturbed anatomical alignment between bones articulating in the carpus. This disturbed balance occurs either only dynamically (with movement) under the effect of physiological force or even statically at rest. The most common cause of carpal instability is wrist trauma with rupture of the stabilizing ligaments and adaptive misalignment following fractures of the radius or carpus. Carpal collapse plays a special role in this mechanism due to non-healed fracture of the scaphoid bone. In addition degenerative inflammatory alterations, such as chondrocalcinosis or gout, more rarely aseptic bone necrosis of the lunate or scaphoid bones or misalignment due to deposition (Madelung deformity) can lead to wrist instability. Under increased pressure the misaligned joint surfaces lead to bone arrosion with secondary arthritis of the wrist. In order to arrest or slow down this irreversible process, diagnosis must occur as early as possible. Many surgical methods have been thought out to regain stability ranging from direct reconstruction of the damaged ligaments, through ligament replacement to partial stiffening of the wrist joint."}
{"id": "21209265", "title": "Comparison of CT and MRI for diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Comparison of CT and MRI for diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures. There is no consensus on the optimum imaging method to use to confirm the diagnosis of true scaphoid fractures among patients with suspected scaphoid fractures. This study tested the null hypothesis that computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have the same diagnostic performance characteristics for the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. Thirty-four consecutive patients with a suspected scaphoid fracture (tenderness of the scaphoid and normal radiographic findings after a fall on the outstretched hand) underwent CT and MRI within ten days after a wrist injury. The reference standard for a true fracture of the scaphoid was six-week follow-up radiographs in four views. A panel including surgeons and radiologists came to a consensus diagnosis for each type of imaging. The images were considered in a randomly ordered, blinded fashion, independent of the other types of imaging. We calculated sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy as well as positive and negative predictive values. The reference standard revealed six true fractures of the scaphoid (prevalence, 18%). CT demonstrated a fracture in five patients (15%), with one false-positive, two false-negative, and four true-positive results. MRI demonstrated a fracture in seven patients (21%), with three false-positive, two false-negative, and four true-positive results. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 67%, 96%, and 91%, respectively, for CT and 67%, 89%, and 85%, respectively, for MRI. According to the McNemar test for paired binary data, these differences were not significant. The positive predictive value with use of the Bayes formula was 0.76 for CT and 0.54 for MRI. The negative predictive value was 0.94 for CT and 0.93 for MRI. CT and MRI had comparable diagnostic characteristics. Both were better at excluding scaphoid fractures than they were at confirming them, and both were subject to false-positive and false-negative interpretations. The best reference standard is debatable, but it is now unclear whether or not bone edema on MRI and small unicortical lines on CT represent a true fracture."}
{"id": "21209260", "title": "Commentary on an article by Wouter Mallee, MSc, et al.: \"Comparison of CT and MRI for diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures\".", "content": "Commentary on an article by Wouter Mallee, MSc, et al.: \"Comparison of CT and MRI for diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures\"."}
{"id": "21197533", "title": "Occult fractures of the scaphoid: the role of ultrasonography in the emergency department.", "content": "Occult fractures of the scaphoid: the role of ultrasonography in the emergency department. To evaluate ultrasonography (US) performed by an emergency radiologist in patients with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fracture and normal radiographs. Sixty-two consecutive adult patients admitted to our emergency department with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fracture and normal radiographs underwent US examination of the scaphoid prior to wrist computed tomography (CT), within 3\u00a0days following wrist trauma. US examination was performed by a board-certified emergency radiologist, non-specialized in musculoskeletal imaging, using the linear probe (5-13\u00a0MHz) of the standard sonographic equipment of the emergency department. The radiologist evaluate for the presence of a cortical interruption of the scaphoid along with a radio-carpal or scapho-trapezium-trapezoid effusion. A CT of the wrist (reference standard) was performed in every patient, immediately after ultrasonography. Fractures were classified into two groups according to their potential for complication: group 1 (high potential, proximal or waist), group 2 (low-potential, distal or tubercle). A scaphoid fracture was demonstrated by CT in 13 (21%) patients: eight (62%) of them belonged to group 1 (three in the proximal pole, five in the waist), five (38%) to group 2 (three in the distal part, two in the tubercle). US was 92% sensitive (12/13) in demonstrating a scaphoid fracture. It was 100% sensitive (8/8) in demonstrating a fracture with a high potential of complication (group 1). Our data show that, in emergency settings, US can be used for the triage to CT in patients with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fracture and normal radiographs."}
{"id": "21136059", "title": "Anatomical and radiological study applied to distal radius surgery.", "content": "Anatomical and radiological study applied to distal radius surgery. The purpose of this study was to determine, during anterior plating of the distal radius, the length of a screw above which there is a risk for the extensor tendons and the optimal shape of an anterior plate. It was also to determine the projection of the axis of the distal third of the radius on the distal articular surface in case of wrist arthroplasty in order to simplify the procedure. We studied 74 dry radii from adult cadavers. Each one underwent a CT scan. We measured the thickness of each radius at the dorsal tubercle level, at the second compartment level and at the third compartment level. We calculated the metaphyseal-epiphyseal angles of the lateral column and of the intermediate column (Rikli and Regazzoni in J Bone Joint Surg (Br) 78(4):588-592, 1996). We also calculated the projection of the longitudinal axis of the most distal 7 cm of the radius on the distal carpal surface of the radius. Mean thickness at the dorsal tubercle level was 22.1 mm (18-26.1). The mean slope of the lateral column was 155\u00b0 (143-167) while that of the intermediate column was 145\u00b0 (134-153). We have found a statistically significant difference (p < 0.0001) between these two slopes. The axis of the distal radius was projected on the posterior-lateral quadrant of the distal articular surface. The emergence of new implants needs a precise evaluation of a fractured, an arthritic or a reconstructed distal radius. The double slope of the distal radius complicates the manufacturing of an \"anatomical\" plate. The optimal shape is between these two slopes. Moreover, ancillaries for wrist replacement are still approximations, which means that it is important to know the projection of the radial axis on the articular surface of the distal radius."}
{"id": "21112713", "title": "Idiopathic osteonecrosis of the scaphoid (Preiser's disease)--MRI gives new insights into etiology and pathology.", "content": "Idiopathic osteonecrosis of the scaphoid (Preiser's disease)--MRI gives new insights into etiology and pathology. To describe the imaging signs of idiopathic osteonecrosis of the scaphoid (Preiser's disease) and to differentiate the findings from scaphoid nonunion. 10 patients (4 men, 6 women, mean age 36.9 years) with radial-sided wrist pain were identified to suffer from primary osteonecrosis of the scaphoid. Imaging methods included radiograms in all cases, CT imaging in 9 cases, and contrast-enhanced MRI in 7 cases. In CT and MRI, images were also acquired in the sagittal-oblique plane for depicting the scaphoids in the entire longitudinal extension. Follow-up examinations were performed in 5 patients, two of them underwent surgery with pedicled bone grafts. In all patients, both osteosclerosis and lesions of the bone marrow were most intensive at the proximal scaphoid pole. A three-layered architecture was found. The zone of osteonecrosis was located most proximally, followed by a zone of repair in the middle, and the zone of viable bone marrow in the distal part of the scaphoid. In contrast to scaphoid nonunion, pathological fractures were exclusively located within the zone of osteonecrosis in 8 cases. Applying morphologic criteria, three stages of Preiser's disease were discernible. The initial stage (proximal osteosclerosis, but unaltered shape of the scaphoid), the advanced stage (pathologic fractures, volume loss of the proximal pole), and the final stage (osteonecrosis of the entire scaphoid). Pathoanatomy of Preiser's disease and the differentiation into three zones of bone marrow viability can be explained with the retrograde blood supply of the scaphoid. In its natural course, three different stages can be depicted with the initial stage seen only in MRI."}
{"id": "21071031", "title": "Variations in morphological and biomechanical indices at the distal radius in subjects with identical BMD.", "content": "Variations in morphological and biomechanical indices at the distal radius in subjects with identical BMD. Determination of osteoporotic status is based primarily on areal bone mineral density (aBMD) obtained through dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). However, many fractures occur in patients with T-scores above the WHO threshold of osteoporosis, in part because DXA measures are insensitive to biomechanically important alterations in bone quality. The goal of this study was to determine--within groups of subjects with identical radius aBMD values--the extant variation in densitometric, geometric, microstructural, and biomechanical parameters. High resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) and DXA radius data from males and females spanning large ranges in age, osteoporotic status, and anthropometrics were compiled. 262 distal radius datasets were processed for this study. HR-pQCT scans were analyzed according to the manufacturer's standard clinical protocol to quantify densitometric, geometric, and microstructural indices. Micro-finite element analysis was performed to calculate biomechanical indices. Factor of risk of wrist fracture was calculated. Simulated aBMD calculated from HR-pQCT data was used to group scans for evaluation of variation in quantified indices. Indices reflecting the greatest variation within aBMD level were BMD in the central portion of the trabecular compartment (max CV 142), trabecular heterogeneity (max CV 90), and intra-cortical porosity (max CV 151). Of the biomechanical indices, cortical load fraction had the greatest variation (max CV 38). Substantial variations in indices reflecting density, structure, and biomechanical competence exist among subjects with identical aBMD levels. Overlap of these indices among osteoporotic status groups reflects the reported incidence of osteoporotic fracture in subjects classified as osteopenic or normal."}
{"id": "21057785", "title": "Clinical utility of tomosynthesis in suspected scaphoid fracture. A pilot study.", "content": "Clinical utility of tomosynthesis in suspected scaphoid fracture. A pilot study. Radiography alone will not detect all scaphoid fractures. There is a reported prevalence between 9 and 33% of occult scaphoid fractures. The evidence-based literature suggests that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most suitable secondary imaging modality due to the ability to evaluate the bone marrow directly and to also identify other injuries. However, there is no consensus on the choice of follow-up imaging strategy-computed tomography, MRI, or bone scan-across different institutions. Tomosynthesis is a new digital tomographic method creating multiple thin tomographic sections. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical utility of tomosynthesis in suspected occult fracture. Thirty-five patients with a clinically suspected occult scaphoid fracture after initial normal radiography were imaged with repeat radiography and tomosynthesis scan 2\u00a0weeks after trauma. Repeat radiography revealed one previously undetected scaphoid tubercle avulsion and one scaphoid waist fracture, confirmed by tomosynthesis. Tomosynthesis revealed two additional scaphoid waist fractures. In total, three initially occult scaphoid waist fractures were detected (9%). No additional fractures were detected in the remaining 32 patients during a 1-year follow-up. Tomosynthesis can demonstrate occult scaphoid fractures not visible at radiography."}
{"id": "20965679", "title": "Avascular necrosis (AVN) of the proximal fragment in scaphoid nonunion: is intravenous contrast agent necessary in MRI?", "content": "Avascular necrosis (AVN) of the proximal fragment in scaphoid nonunion: is intravenous contrast agent necessary in MRI? The purpose of this prospective study is to assess the diagnostic value of intravenously applied contrast agent for diagnosing osteonecrosis of the proximal fragment in scaphoid nonunion, and to compare the imaging results with intraoperative findings. In 88 patients (7 women, 81 men) suffering from symptomatic scaphoid nonunion, preoperative MRI was performed (coronal PD-w FSE fs, sagittal-oblique T1-w SE nonenhanced and T1-w SE fs contrast-enhanced, sagittal T2*-w GRE). MRI interpretation was based on the intensity of contrast enhancement: 0 = none, 1 = focal, 2 = diffuse. Intraoperatively, the osseous viability was scored by means of bleeding points on the osteotomy site of the proximal scaphoid fragment: 0=absent, 1 = moderate, 2 = good. Intraoperatively, 17 necrotic, 29 compromised, and 42 normal proximal fragments were found. In nonenhanced MRI, bone viability was judged necrotic in 1 patient, compromised in 20 patients, and unaffected in 67 patients. Contrast-enhanced MRI revealed 14 necrotic, 21 compromised, and 53 normal proximal fragments. Judging surgical findings as the standard of reference, statistical analysis for nonenhanced MRI was: sensitivity 6.3%, specificity 100%, positive PV 100%, negative PV 82.6%, and accuracy 82.9%; statistics for contrast-enhanced MRI was: sensitivity 76.5%, specificity 98.6%, positive PV 92.9%, negative PV 94.6%, and accuracy 94.3%. Sensitivity for detecting avascular proximal fragments was significantly better (p<0.001) in contrast-enhanced MRI in comparison to nonenhanced MRI. Viability of the proximal fragment in scaphoid nonunion can be significantly better assessed with the use of contrast-enhanced MRI as compared to nonenhanced MRI. Bone marrow edema is an inferior indicator of osteonecrosis. Application of intravenous gadolinium is recommended for imaging scaphoid nonunion."}
{"id": "20838220", "title": "Early MRI in the management of the clinical scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Early MRI in the management of the clinical scaphoid fracture. The 'clinical scaphoid fracture' remains a common problem faced by emergency physicians. Early magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to routinely investigate such patients presenting to the emergency department of Aberdeen Royal Infirmary since 2002. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of this strategy in the diagnosis of occult scaphoid fracture. This was a retrospective cohort study of patients presenting with symptoms and signs suggestive of scaphoid injury and normal initial radiographs. Patients undergoing MRI evaluation of a suspected scaphoid injury between September 2002 and June 2008 were identified from records. The number of patients with scaphoid fractures and other significant pathology diagnosed on MRI was recorded. A total of 651 patients were included in the study. A scaphoid fracture was diagnosed in 11% of patients. Using the \u03c7 test, there was evidence of an association between sex and type of injury (\u03c7=58.0, P<0.001). Male patients were more likely to have scaphoid injuries; female patients were more likely to have no injury. There was also evidence of an association between age group and type of injury (\u03c7=11.8, P=0.003). Those in the younger age group were more likely to have scaphoid injuries. Early MRI can reliably detect radiologically occult scaphoid fractures and accurately delineate the anatomy of other injuries that may present with similar symptoms. This strategy avoids further radiation and can be incorporated as a part of an emergency department management pathway. Early and accurate diagnosis is in the patient's interest and allows timely intervention."}
{"id": "20725880", "title": "Postoperative monitoring of distal intraarticular radial fractures treated with osteosynthesis by means of multislice CT.", "content": "Postoperative monitoring of distal intraarticular radial fractures treated with osteosynthesis by means of multislice CT. This study evaluates multislice CT (MSCT) for the postsurgical control of intraarticular fractures of the distal radius. In 131 patients conventional X-rays in two planes and MSCT were performed. In a consensus process two experienced radiologists judged conventional X-ray and computed tomography images in a random view. The correct position of the osteosynthetic material was assessed and it was ascertained whether an articular surface incongruity, a gap between two fracture fragments, or an intraarticular bone element was detectable. For each point of evaluation a confidence level of the evaluation was assessed on a five-point scale. Ninety patients were classified as having correct alignment and osteosynthesis according to conventional X-ray, while when using the findings from axial CT scans only, 82 patients, and after the addition of multiplanar re-constructions (MPR) only 73 patients were found to have almost proper alignment and osteosynthesis. In 42 patients dehiscence of the fragments was diagnosed with MSCT, but was not visualized by X-ray, leading to surgical revision in eight patients, confirming the diagnosis. In five patients an intraarticular position of intraarticular material was confirmed with MSCT and surgical revision. A significant advantage for the evaluation confidence level was achieved for MPRs in comparison with axial CT scans and X-ray. The marked diagnostic advantage with a high evaluation confidence level in comparison with conventional X-ray methods justify the use of MSCT during postoperative monitoring of articular radial fractures treated with osteosynthesis."}
{"id": "20621936", "title": "Gadolinium-enhanced preoperative MRI scans as a prognostic parameter in scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Gadolinium-enhanced preoperative MRI scans as a prognostic parameter in scaphoid nonunion. The purpose of this prospective study was to correlate preoperative gadolinium-enhanced MRI scans with intraoperative bleeding of the proximal fragment and postoperative union in a series of consecutive patients with established scaphoid nonunions. In 60 patients (6 females, 54 males) with a mean age of 29 years, scaphoid perfusion was judged preoperatively as normal, impaired or absent using a gadolinium-enhanced MRI scan. Scaphoid reconstruction was performed using a nonvascularized bone graft and screw fixation. Perfusion of the proximal fragment was assessed intraoperatively in 49 of 60 patients; compromised or absent vascularity was predicted with a specificity of 90% by contrast-enhanced MRI. However, there was no significant correlation between preoperative MRI assessment of vascularity and subsequent union of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "20554419", "title": "Wrist injuries in young adults: the diagnostic impact of CT and MRI.", "content": "Wrist injuries in young adults: the diagnostic impact of CT and MRI. To evaluate the diagnostic impact of MRI or/and multidetector CT in young patients with wrist injury and inconclusive or negative clinical examination and X-rays and to analyze variations in imaging strategies between a district general hospital (GH) and a university hospital (UH). A retrospective analysis of 34 young patients (mean age 23 years) with wrist trauma who underwent CT or/and MRI was performed. The injury was acute in 24, and chronic in 10 patients. Twenty-two patients were from a GH and 12 from a UH. Two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists blindly reviewed the imaging studies. The effect of cross-sectional imaging on patient care and treatment plan was evaluated. In 9 of 34 patients one or more fractures were diagnosed on cross-sectional imaging. The scaphoid was fractured in four patients, the lunate and/or the trapezium in three patients, the scaphoid together with the lunate in one patient, and finally the distal radius in one patient. Ligamentous trauma was identified solely on MRI in 11 patients (involving the TFCC in eight cases). In four patients with both imaging methods, CT revealed one fracture of the trapezium not seen on MRI, and one scapholunate fracture with MRI findings of distal radial fracture only. In two patients with normal CT, MRI revealed bone marrow oedema of the scaphoid in one and of the distal radius, lunate and triquetrum in the other. Both CT and MRI might be considered in patients with acute or chronic wrist injury, clinical dilemma and normal initial radiographs, depending on the availability and the individual institution policies."}
{"id": "21289857", "title": "Pseudarthrosis after disruption of an incomplete luno-triquetral coalition: a case report.", "content": "Pseudarthrosis after disruption of an incomplete luno-triquetral coalition: a case report. Whilst bony luno-triquetral coalitions are known to be asymptomatic, fibro-cartilage unions can cause ulnar-sided wrist pain. The purpose is to present the rare case of painful pseudarthrosis after traumatic disruption of an incomplete luno-triquetral coalition. Recommendations for proper diagnosis and treatment options will be discussed. The case of a 35-year-old male patient is reported, where disruption of a fibro-cartilaginous luno-triquetral coalition resulted in a painful pseudarthrosis. Luno-triquetral fusion with a corticocancellous wedge from the iliac crest and a Herbert screw was undertaken. Using this method pain was relieved but resulted in minor loss of range of motion. We recommend luno-triquetral fusion in the rare case of fracture or pseudarthrosis of a luno-triquetral coalition. The use of a corticocancellous wedge should be considered depending on gap formation after resection of the pseudarthrosis."}
{"id": "21206223", "title": "Early computed tomography compared with bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Early computed tomography compared with bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures. This study examined whether multidetector computed tomography (CT) is superior to bone scintigraphy for diagnosis of an occult scaphoid fracture. In a study period of 22 months, 100 consecutive patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and no fracture on scaphoid radiographs, were evaluated with CT within 24 hours after injury and bone scintigraphy between 3 and 5 days after injury. The reference standard for a true (radiographic occult) scaphoid fracture was either (1) diagnosis of fracture on both CT and bone scintigraphy or (2) in case of discrepancy, clinical and/or radiographic evidence of a fracture during follow-up. CT showed 10 scaphoid and 18 other fractures. Bone scintigraphy showed 21 scaphoid and 36 other fractures. According to the reference standard, there were 14 scaphoid fractures. CT had a sensitivity of 64%, specificity of 99%, accuracy of 94%, a positive predictive value of 90%, and a negative predictive value of 94%. Bone scintigraphy had a sensitivity of 93%, specificity of 91%, accuracy of 91%, a positive predictive value of 62%, and a negative predictive value of 99%. This study could not confirm that early CT imaging is superior to bone scintigraphy for suspected scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "21094401", "title": "Skiing and snowboarding injuries: a review with a focus on mechanism of injury.", "content": "Skiing and snowboarding injuries: a review with a focus on mechanism of injury. Skiing and snowboarding are ever increasing in popularity, with participation across a wide patient demographic. This article focuses on common skiing and snowboarding injuries, with an emphasis on unique mechanisms of injury and discusses the contribution of equipment design to evolving patterns of injury. Knowledge of mechanisms of injury and injury patterns allows a targeted approach to the interpretation of imaging modalities in this patient population."}
{"id": "21087881", "title": "[Bone scintigraphy in evaluation of bone vascularisation at wrist and hand].", "content": "[Bone scintigraphy in evaluation of bone vascularisation at wrist and hand]. Diphosphonate bone scintigraphy is used since the 1970s for studying bone pathology; it is increasingly common because of increased physical activity of the population. The disphosphonate uptake in bone requires the preservation of bone vascularity and reflects osteoblastic activity; it allows studying the viability of bone. Using data from the literature and our experience, we tried to take stock of its main uses in routine emphasizing the study of vascular and describe its use in fractures of the scaphoid and in the study of vascularised bone transfers. If the value of scintigraphy is well known, the use made by means of pinhole collimator and the market entry of new and more sensitive detectors with better resolution could allow the side of the imaging anatomy of improving the study of the vascularisation of small bone transfers which are increasingly used, particularly at wrist and hand."}
{"id": "21075667", "title": "[The role of imaging in the assessment of vascularity at hand and wrist].", "content": "[The role of imaging in the assessment of vascularity at hand and wrist]. The viability of the bone is compromised in two main situations at the wrist: Kienb\u00f6ck's disease and scaphoid nonunion with avascular necrosis. Plain radiography and CT allow an accurate anatomical approach of morphological changes associated with avascular necrosis of the lunate and the scaphoid fracture with complications. CT is readily available to detect nondisplaced fractures. However, early forms of necrosis can be misdiagnosed and evaluation of bone vitality is impossible. MRI is the best imaging modality to detect avascular necrosis and the intravenous injection of gadolinium improves the specificity of diagnosis of necrosis. The lack of enhancement of the proximal fragment of the scaphoid leads the surgeon to use a vascular graft in the treatment of nonunion. The technique has its limitations. The bone necrosis is histologically complex and contrast enhancement does not mean necessarily viability. However, MRI is still the most powerful imaging modality in the assessment of the bone marrow."}
{"id": "21057290", "title": "Scaphoid fracture: pediatric emergency care.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture: pediatric emergency care."}
{"id": "21048172", "title": "Comparative evaluation of postreduction intra-articular distal radial fractures by radiographs and multidetector computed tomography.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of postreduction intra-articular distal radial fractures by radiographs and multidetector computed tomography. Computed tomography can be an adjunct to radiographs when evaluating intra-articular fractures of the distal part of the radius. Acute-phase multidetector computed tomography has better temporal, spatial, and contrast resolution than a conventional scanner has. The aim of this study was to determine prospectively whether the addition of a multidetector computed tomography scan (with various reconstructions) results in changes in the evaluation of intra-articular distal radial fractures and thus changes in the plans for further management. Radiographs and multidetector computed tomography scans were compared prospectively in the evaluation of 117 patients (120 wrists) with acute intra-articular distal radial fractures. The parameters that were measured included the ability to detect intra-articular step and gap displacements, central articular depression, coronal plane fracture, the number of articular fragments, comminution, and associated injuries in the wrist region (carpal bone fractures, distal radioulnar joint disruption, and ulnar styloid fracture). The average measurements for intra-articular step and gap were 0.4 mm and 0.9 mm, respectively, on post-reduction radiographs and 1.3 mm and 2.4 mm, respectively, on sagittal multidetector computed tomography images (p < 0.0001 for each). Central articular depression was found in twenty-one wrists (18% of the total) on radiographs, but on multidetector computed tomography it was found to be present in seventy-four wrists (62% of the total) (p < 0.0001). Twenty-six radiographically occult injuries in the wrist region, including six scaphoid fractures, were detected with the help of multidetector computed tomography. Overall, the recommended treatment plan changed in 23% of the cases when the evaluation included multidetector computed tomography images in addition to conventional radiographs. Interobserver and intraobserver agreements were significantly increased when radiographs and multidetector computed tomography images both were available for evaluation (\u03ba = 0.73 and 0.91, respectively) as compared with interobserver and intraobserver agreement with radiographs alone (\u03ba = 0.43 and 0.69, respectively). Multidetector computed tomography provides more accurate information regarding the anatomy of intra-articular distal radial fractures than radiography provides. The addition of multidetector computed tomography to plain films frequently changes the therapeutic recommendations for such cases."}
{"id": "21048065", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fractures. The scaphoid bone in the wrist is the most frequently fractured carpal bone. This Directed Reading discusses types of scaphoid fractures, issues of special concern (eg, the risk of avascular necrosis and delayed union or non-union), steps involved in bone fracture healing and various imaging modalities used for scaphoid fracture diagnosis. Types of fracture management such as casting and surgical intervention are examined. Factors that can negatively influence bone healing, such as certain disease processes and tobacco use, are also investigated. This article is a Directed Reading. Your access to Directed Reading quizzes for continuing education credit is determined by your area of interest. For access to other quizzes, go to www.asrt.org/store."}
{"id": "20961709", "title": "Corrective osteotomy for isolated malunion of the palmar lunate facet in distal radius fractures.", "content": "Corrective osteotomy for isolated malunion of the palmar lunate facet in distal radius fractures. Malunion of the palmar lunate facet fragment of distal radius fractures is associated with both early functional impairment and late degenerative changes. The goal of this study was to describe the clinical and radiographic outcomes after corrective osteotomy for isolated malunion of the palmar lunate facet. Between 1995 and 2000, a retrospective review identified 13 patients with an average age of 44 years who had undergone corrective intra-articular osteotomy for isolated malunion of the palmar lunate facet. The average interval from the initial injury to the osteotomy was 5.4 months. Final evaluation was performed at 1 year. We performed statistical analysis using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Wrist extension improved from an average of 53\u00b0 to 84\u00b0 (p = .002), flexion from 46\u00b0 to 61\u00b0 (p < .002), supination from 38\u00b0 to 87\u00b0 (p = .002), and pronation from 79\u00b0 to 87\u00b0 (p < .001). Grip strength improved from 30% to 73% of the contralateral side (p < .002). Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand scores improved from an average of 50.7 to 9.7 (p < .002). Palmar tilt improved from an average of 23\u00b0 to 11\u00b0 (p < .002). Radial inclination improved from an average of 29\u00b0 to 22\u00b0 (p < .002), ulnar variance decreased from +3.9 to -0.9 mm (p = .004), and intra-articular gap decreased from 3.6 to 0.9 mm (p < .002). All patients had excellent or good results according to both the Gartland and Werley and the Fernandez scoring systems. Early intra-articular osteotomy significantly improved wrist range of motion, grip strength, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand scores, and radiographic parameters. Patients reported mostly positive outcomes. Therapeutic IV."}
{"id": "20935524", "title": "Bone scintigraphy in patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Bone scintigraphy in patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "20879420", "title": "Calibration and use of intraoperative cone-beam computed tomography: an in-vitro study for wrist fracture.", "content": "Calibration and use of intraoperative cone-beam computed tomography: an in-vitro study for wrist fracture. The standard workflow in many image-guided procedures, preoperative imaging followed by intraoperative registration, can be a challenging process and is not readily adaptable to certain anatomical regions such as the wrist. In this study we present an alternative, consisting of a preoperative registration calibration and intraoperative navigation using 3D cone-beam CT. A custom calibration tool was developed to preoperatively register an optical tracking system to the imaging space of a digital angiographic C-arm. This preoperative registration was then applied to perform direct navigation using intraoperatively acquired images for the purposes of an in-vitro wrist fixation procedure. A validation study was performed to assess the stability of the registration and found that the mean registration error was approximately 0.3 mm. When compared to two conventional techniques, our navigated wrist repair achieved equal or better screw placement, with fewer drilling attempts and no additional radiation exposure to the patient. These studies suggest that preoperative registration coupled with direct navigation using procedure-specific graphical rendering, is potentially a highly accurate and effective means of performing image-guided interventions."}
{"id": "20858790", "title": "Assessment of scaphoid viability with MRI: a reassessment of findings on unenhanced MR images.", "content": "Assessment of scaphoid viability with MRI: a reassessment of findings on unenhanced MR images. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the accuracy of unenhanced T1-weighted MR images in predicting the vascular status of the proximal pole of the scaphoid in patients with chronic scaphoid fracture nonunions. A database search identified 29 patients with chronic scaphoid nonunions who underwent a preoperative MRI examination and intraoperative assessment of scaphoid viability from 2004 to 2009. T1-weighted MR images were evaluated by two musculoskeletal radiologists. If the proximal pole demonstrated diffusely decreased T1-weighted signal (less than or equal to that of skeletal muscle), the patient was placed in a moderate-to-high risk for avascular necrosis (AVN) category. Otherwise, the patient was placed in a viable-to-low risk for AVN category. Scaphoid viability or necrosis was diagnosed intraoperatively depending on whether punctate bleeding was present. After the patients were classified according to the T1-weighted appearance, the appearance on STIR images was recorded. There were 29 patients (25 male) with a mean age of 21 years. When we compared the MRI results, using only the T1-weighted images, with the surgical findings, unenhanced MRI had a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 55%, 94%, and 79%, respectively, for diagnosing AVN. Increased proximal pole STIR signal was noted with similar frequencies in patients with and without AVN. T1-weighted unenhanced MRI is an acceptable alternative to delayed contrast-enhanced MRI in the preoperative assessment of the vascular status of the proximal pole of the scaphoid in patients with chronic fracture nonunions. STIR images were not beneficial in determining proximal pole viability."}
{"id": "20827544", "title": "[Operative versus conservative treatment of non-displaced fractures of the scaphoid bone. Results of a controlled multicenter cohort study].", "content": "[Operative versus conservative treatment of non-displaced fractures of the scaphoid bone. Results of a controlled multicenter cohort study]. Within a prospective, multicenter cohort study we investigated whether operative treatment of scaphoid bone fractures leads to earlier return to previous activity levels. Only isolated, acute, complete, stable and non-displaced fractures of the mid-third of the scaphoid bone were included. A total of 94 patients with the same number of fractures were recruited. In the operative group, fractures were fixed with a cannulated screw and had postoperative splint immobilization for a maximum of 1 week. In the conservative group a short arm cast was applied until fracture union was achieved. Both groups were followed for 6 months. By 15 weeks patients receiving surgical treatment had returned significantly earlier to their full time work and home activities and achieved significantly better results for functional status, pain, and overall satisfaction. However, after screw fixation, complication rates concerning union and secondary operative management were higher. Operative treatment primarily facilitates earlier return to previous activity levels, as well as better functional status, less pain and higher patient satisfaction, but conservative treatment seems to be safer and associated with a lower complication rate."}
{"id": "20825734", "title": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of the scaphoid bone]. Can junior doctors in orthopaedic surgery interpret magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the scaphoid bone and thereby avoid that patients undergo unnecessary immobilization and repeated controls? Patients suspected of having a fracture of the scaphoid bone and with a negative x-ray were included in the study. The MRI was performed within a few days, and the patient received the results of the MRI the same day in the ambulatory. The junior doctor had received training in MRI diagnosis and was not allowed to confer with another doctor. Subsequently, the junior doctor's medical opinion was reviewed by a radiologist, and the treatment was adjusted if there was a discrepancy concerning the diagnosis. Among the 98 eligible patients, 13 had their MRIs reviewed by the junior doctor in tandem with a specialist; therefore, only 85 patients were included in the study. Junior doctors found three out of five scaphoid fractures and misinterpreted six. Specificity reached 92.5% and the sensitivity 60%. The junior doctors as well as the radiologists found 11 fractures of the distal radius that had not been detected prior to the MRI. We cannot recommend that junior doctors in orthopaedic surgery interpret MRI scans. Since studies have showed that is it cost-effective to offer early MRI, we will continue doing so, but will wait for the final report from the radiologists before initiating treatment."}
{"id": "20824422", "title": "[Treatment of carpal fractures. Recommendations of the Hand Surgery Group of the German Trauma Society].", "content": "[Treatment of carpal fractures. Recommendations of the Hand Surgery Group of the German Trauma Society]. The primary goal in the treatment of carpal fractures is the preservation of a painless wrist function. Scaphoid fractures are the most common carpal fractures and when such a fracture is clinically suspected CT or MRI scans are usually advisable. Only stable and non-displaced scaphoid fractures can be treated conservatively, all other fractures require internal fixation with restoration of normal anatomy. Second most common are fractures of the triquetrum which can occur as chip avulsions of the dorsal rim and are usually treated symptomatically. Fractures of the body of the triquetrum should be treated according to the degree of instability and displacement. This is virtually true for all carpal bones. Perilunate fracture dislocations of the carpus deserve special attention. In these severe injuries a fracture line can run through all carpal bones but the scaphoid is mostly affected. Accurate reduction and internal fixation by screws and K-wires are indicated not only in these cases, but also in carpometacarpal fracture dislocations."}
{"id": "20728395", "title": "[Use of the induced membrane technique for the treatment of bone defects in the hand or wrist, in emergency].", "content": "[Use of the induced membrane technique for the treatment of bone defects in the hand or wrist, in emergency]. A prospective study is reported concerning 11 cases of bone defect of the hand and wrist treated by the induced membrane technique. Ten men and one woman with an average age of 49 yrs (17-72) sustained a high-energy trauma with severe mutilation of digit and hand but with intact pulp. Eight cases of open finger fractures with composite loss of substance and three cases of bone and joint infection (thumb, wrist, fifth finger) were included. All cases were treated by the induced membrane technique which consists in stable fixation, flap if necessary, and in filling the bone defect by a cement methyl methacrylate polymere (PMMA) spacer. A secondary procedure at two months is needed where the cement is removed and the void is filled by cancellous bone. The key point of this induced membrane technique is to respect the foreign body membrane which formed around the cement spacer creating a biologic chamber. Bone union was evaluated prospectively by X-ray and CT scan by a surgeon not involved in the treatment. Failure was defined as non-union at one year, or uncontrolled sepsis at one month. Two cases failed to achieve bone union. No septic complications occurred and all septic cases were controlled. In nine cases, bone union was achieved within four months (three to 12). Evidence of osteoid formation was determined by a bone biopsy in one case. Masquelet first reported 35 cases of large tibial non-union defects treated by the induced membrane technique. The cement spacer promotes foreign body membrane induction constituting a biological chamber. Works on animal models reported by Pellissier and Viateau demonstrated membrane properties: secretion of growths factors (VEGF, TGF beta1, BMP2) and osteoinductive cellular activity. The induced membrane seems to mimic a neoperiosteum. This technique is useful in emergency or septic conditions where bone defects cannot be treated by shortening. It avoids microsurgery and is limited by availability of cancellous bone."}
{"id": "20699752", "title": "Repositioning osteotomy for intra-articular malunion of distal radius with radiocarpal and/or distal radioulnar joint subluxation.", "content": "Repositioning osteotomy for intra-articular malunion of distal radius with radiocarpal and/or distal radioulnar joint subluxation. Intra-articular malunion of the distal radius may be complicated with radiocarpal and radioulnar joint subluxation, which may result in joint stiffness and loss of function. Conventional corrective osteotomy emphasizes on the restoration of the articular step-off. However, little information is available concerning the restoration of a concentric functioning joint through osteotomy. From 2002 to 2007, 12 patients with chronic intra-articular distal radius fractures were evaluated at an average follow-up of 33.6 months after repositioning osteotomy. The average time from initial injury to reconstructive operation was 11.3 months. The indication for osteotomy included dorsal or volar subluxation of the radiocarpal joint, distal radioulnar joint, or both in addition to articular incongruity. A preoperative computed tomography scan or rapid prototyping (RP) models were performed as part of the surgical planning. Operation was preceded by volar, dorsal, or both approaches. Repositioning osteotomy and internal fixation were also performed. Radiographic analysis and the Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand score were used for the outcome assessment. All osteotomy sites healed and all events of radiocarpal and radioulnar subluxation were corrected. The average correction was 13.8 degrees (palmar tilt of the radius) and 1.9 mm in ulnar variance. The mean Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand score improved from 64 to 18. Conventional corrective osteotomy via an extra-articular approach was favorably performed to correct an extra-articular malalignment or nascent intra-articular malunion. Problems of abnormal architecture after an intra-articular fracture of the radius are complicated with subluxation of carpus or distal radioulnar joint, which require repositioning via precise articular approach. Both reconstructed computed tomography images and rapid prototyping models are very useful tools in preoperative planning for intra-articular osteotomy. Simulated osteotomy and joint repositioning can be performed in solid models before commencement of actual operation. Repositioning osteotomy consistently restores joint alignment and achieves functional improvement either in cases of nascent simple malunion or complex intra-articular malunion."}
{"id": "20698466", "title": "Navicular stress fracture in high-performing twin brothers: a case report.", "content": "Navicular stress fracture in high-performing twin brothers: a case report. Navicular stress fractures mainly occur in sprinting and push-off athletes. Numerous predisposing factors have been implicated in their development. Within a six-week interval in the summer of 2009, twin brothers, both elite track and field athletes, presented to us with medial foot pain. Plain radiographs were negative but a radioisotope bone scan and CT scan revealed an incomplete navicular fracture in both of them. The fracture was typically located in the proximal dorsal cortex of the central portion of the navicular bone. The presence of such a stress fracture in high performing, monozygotic twins, has never been described. As extrinsic and intrinsic risk factors, their comparability of mechanical stresses and kinematics as well as a genetic predisposition can be put forward. This case report suggests that a complex interaction between mechanical and genetic risk factors exists in the development of navicular stress fractures."}
{"id": "20694752", "title": "[Radiological procedures in the traumatised wrist].", "content": "[Radiological procedures in the traumatised wrist]. Injuries of the wrist are difficult to diagnose because of the complex and narrow anatomic structures. On the basis of precise clinical examination, X-rays, CT and MRI are valuable additional tools that can be used. In the case of bone injury, spiral computer tomography with multiplanar reformatting is currently the method of choice. MRI is indicated for the identification of soft tissue or ligamentous injury and avital fragments or necrosis. Other diagnostic tools for the wrist are currently of minor importance. Technical and methodological innovations allow ever better visualisation and classification of lesions, as well as their extent, thus enabling more targeted therapy. However, prerequisites of effective use include differential assessment and precise knowledge of the procedures."}
{"id": "20684923", "title": "Optimal fixation of acute scaphoid fractures: finite element analysis.", "content": "Optimal fixation of acute scaphoid fractures: finite element analysis. The hypothesis of this study was that more stable fixation of acute scaphoid fractures may be achieved by a screw placed perpendicular to the fracture plane than along the long axis of the scaphoid, as previously suggested. We examined this assumption on different fracture patterns using a finite element analysis model. A computed tomography scan of an intact scaphoid of a young man provided the data set for all fracture models. We used semiautomatic segmentation to create 3-dimensional computer models of the 3 simple fracture configurations: oblique, transverse waist, and proximal fractures, according to the Herbert classification. Each fracture type was analyzed, using finite elements, for its biomechanical response to 2 types of virtual fixation: a screw placed either perpendicular to the fracture plane or centrally along the long axis of the scaphoid. We measured motion at the fracture plane (in millimeters) and strain in the screw threads (in millipascals). Considerably less motion was measured at the fracture plane with the perpendicular screw compared with the long axis screw, especially in the oblique-type fractures: (1) Herbert-type B1 oblique fracture mean motion of 0.05 mm (+/-0.03) for the perpendicular screw versus 0.28 mm (+/-0.05) for the long axis screw; (2) B2 transverse waist fracture mean motion of 0.06 mm (+/-0.03) for the perpendicular screw versus 0.18 mm (+/-0.06) for the long axis screw; and (3) B3 proximal fracture mean motion of 0.07 mm (+/-0.01) for the perpendicular screw versus 0.28 mm (+/-0.011) for the long axis screw. Higher strains were measured on the screw placed perpendicular to the fracture. According to this model, higher fixation stability is achieved when the scaphoid is fixated perpendicular to the fracture. In transverse waist fractures, a centrally placed screw will also be perpendicular to the fracture, which explains the results of previous models."}
{"id": "20672395", "title": "Arthroscopic wafer resection for ulnar impaction syndrome: prediction of outcomes.", "content": "Arthroscopic wafer resection for ulnar impaction syndrome: prediction of outcomes. Twenty-six patients with mean age of 38.5 (range 18-59), from 1998 to 2005, with ulnar impaction syndrome who failed nonoperative treatments were included in our study. Patients' age, history of previous wrist fracture, presence of MRI signs and ulnar variance were recorded as variables. Also, patients' postoperative strength (compared to the contralateral wrist) and pain relief were collected as outcome measurements. Twenty-two patients (84.6%) had either good or excellent pain relief (median 4, range 1-4). Significant correlation was found between MRI findings and postop pain relief (r = 0.53, p < or = 0.01). History of previous distal radius fractures was negatively correlated with pain relief (r = -0.50, p < or = 0.01). No correlation was found between postop strength and any of the variables. Presence of MRI signs of UIS is a predictor of good outcome in arthroscopic wafer resection."}
{"id": "20621938", "title": "Radioulnar ratio in detection of distal radioulnar joint instability associated with acute distal radius fractures.", "content": "Radioulnar ratio in detection of distal radioulnar joint instability associated with acute distal radius fractures. Lesions of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) are commonly associated with distal radius fractures and may adversely affect the functional outcome. This prospective study evaluated computed tomography, using the radioulnar ratio (RUR), to detect laxity of the distal radioulnar joint in 48 consecutive patients with acute distal radius fractures and compared the results with a radioulnar stress test. We found the clinical stress test to be reliable in chronic cases, but the RUR method of questionable value in both acute and chronic cases."}
{"id": "20608626", "title": "Bilateral lunate intraosseous ganglia.", "content": "Bilateral lunate intraosseous ganglia. An intraosseous ganglion is a relatively uncommon, benign cystic lesion that occurs in young and middle-aged adults. Bilateral and symmetrical lesions of the wrist are rare. Intraosseous ganglia of the carpal bones are uncommon causes of chronic wrist pain. Isolated cases of intraosseous ganglion have been reported most commonly in the lunate and scaphoid. The lunate was most frequently affected, followed by the capitate, scaphoid, and triquetrum bones. Radiolucent lesions in the carpal bones are not uncommon and are often seen incidentally in asymptomatic patients. The differential diagnosis of a lytic lesion in a carpal bone includes unicameral bone cyst, degenerative cyst, fibrous developmental defect, osteomyelitis, and intraosseous ganglion cyst. This article describes a case of bilateral lunate intraosseous ganglia. A review of the literature revealed that bilateral and symmetrical intraosseous ganglia of the wrist are rare, with only 3 other reported cases of bilateral lunate lesions."}
{"id": "20606515", "title": "Epidemiology of US high school sports-related fractures, 2005-2009.", "content": "Epidemiology of US high school sports-related fractures, 2005-2009. To describe the epidemiology of fractures among US high school athletes participating in 9 popular sports. Descriptive epidemiologic study. Sports injury data for the 2005-2009 academic years were collected using an Internet-based injury surveillance system, Reporting Information Online (RIO). A nationally representative sample of 100 US high schools. Injuries sustained as a function of sport and sex. Fracture injury rates, body site, outcome, surgery, and mechanism. Fractures (n = 568 177 nationally) accounted for 10.1% of all injuries sustained by US high school athletes. The highest rate of fractures was in football (4.61 per 10 000 athlete exposures) and the lowest in volleyball (0.52). Boys were more likely than girls to sustain a fracture in basketball (rate ratio, 1.35,; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-1.72) and soccer (rate ratio, 1.34; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-1.71). Overall, the most frequently fractured body sites were the hand/finger (28.3%), wrist (10.4%), and lower leg (9.3%). Fractures were the most common injury to the nose (76.9%), forearm (56.4%), hand/finger (41.7%), and wrist (41.6%). Most fractures resulted in >3 weeks' time lost (34.3%) or a medical disqualification from participation (24.2%) and were more likely to result in >3 weeks' time lost and medical disqualification than all other injuries combined. Fractures frequently required expensive medical diagnostic imaging examinations such as x-ray, computed tomographic scan, and magnetic resonance imaging. Additionally, 16.1% of fractures required surgical treatment, accounting for 26.9% of all injuries requiring surgery. Illegal activity was noted in 9.3% of all fractures with the highest proportion of fractures related to illegal activity in girls' soccer (27.9%). Fractures are a major concern for US high school athletes. They can severely affect the athlete's ability to continue sports participation and can impose substantial medical costs on the injured athletes' families. Targeted, evidence-based, effective fracture prevention programs are needed."}
{"id": "20575885", "title": "Review of imaging of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Review of imaging of scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fractures are the most common fractures of the carpus, accounting for 79% of all carpal fractures. Early diagnosis of scaphoid fractures is imperative owing to potential complications following the fracture, including non-union, avascular necrosis, carpal instability and osteoarthritis. Plain radiography remains the initial imaging modality to assess scaphoid fractures. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is excellent in the detection of clinically suspected, but initially radiographically negative, scaphoid fractures. Cost-effectiveness analysis studies have demonstrated MRI is effective in this setting. Gadolinium enhanced MRI has been shown to be superior to unenhanced MRI in the detection of avascular necrosis. Computerized tomography scan is the preferred modality to assess the intricacies of scaphoid fracture, including fracture location and deformity, as well as union status. This review paper explores the recent advances in imaging of the scaphoid, with reference also to avascular necrosis and non-union following a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "20510414", "title": "Clinical prediction rule for suspected scaphoid fractures: A prospective cohort study.", "content": "Clinical prediction rule for suspected scaphoid fractures: A prospective cohort study. The low prevalence of true fractures amongst suspected fractures magnifies the shortcomings of the diagnostic tests used to triage suspected scaphoid fractures. The objective was to develop a clinical prediction rule that would yield a subset of patients who were more likely to have a scaphoid fracture than others who lacked the subset criteria. Seventy-eight consecutive patients diagnosed with a suspected scaphoid fracture were included. Standardised patient history, physical examination, range of motion (ROM) and strength measurements were studied. The reference standard for a true fracture was based on the results of magnetic resonance imaging, bone scintigraphy, follow-up radiographs and examination. Analysis revealed three significant independent predictors: extension <50%, supination strength \u2264 10% and the presence of a previous fracture. Clinical prediction rules have the potential to increase the prevalence of true fractures amongst patients with suspected scaphoid fractures, which can increase the diagnostic performance characteristics of radiological diagnostic tests used for triage."}
{"id": "20488154", "title": "Traumatic injury to a wrist with incidental Madelung's deformity.", "content": "Traumatic injury to a wrist with incidental Madelung's deformity. We present a longstanding case of subtle Madelung's deformity in association with a new traumatic radial styloid fracture. Magnetic resonance imaging accurately distinguished this deformity from an acute fracture and highlighted the correct cause of the patient's pain. An unnecessary procedure was avoided."}
{"id": "20488138", "title": "Long-term outcome of distal ulna resection-stabilisation procedures in post-traumatic radio-ulnar joint disorders.", "content": "Long-term outcome of distal ulna resection-stabilisation procedures in post-traumatic radio-ulnar joint disorders. Distal radius fractures represent 20% of fractures in adults. Although good results are usually obtained with treatment, functional sequelae are not uncommon, with injury of the distal radio-ulnar joint (DRUJ) being the most frequent. Various treatments have been described to address these disorders. Distal ulna resection-stabilisation (DURS) is our technique of choice when preservation of the DRUJ is impossible. Twenty patients operated between 1985 and 1996 were reviewed with minimum 6-year follow-up. Nine of them were men and 11 were women, with an average age 45 years. The initial trauma was a distal radius fracture in all cases. The main complaint was ulnar pain with no limitation of mobility in five patients, painful limitation of prono-supination in 14, and palmar subluxation of the ulna in one case. Radiographic evaluation and CT scan showed DRUJ incongruence in 14 patients with ulna head instability, and ulno-carpal abutment with degenerative changes at the DRUJ in six cases. In three patients, malunion of the distal radius was associated with degenerative DRUJ lesions. The satisfaction rate was 95% at an average follow-up of 11 years (range 6.7 to 18.6 years). Pain scores decreased progressively from 2.2 to 0.5 post-operatively. Range of motion improved in supination from 37 degrees to 80 degrees , and in pronation from 66 degrees to 84 degrees . Improvements were 15 degrees in ulnar inclination, 9 degrees in radial inclination, 16 degrees in flexion, and 23 degrees in extension. Distal ulna palpation was not painful, and no instability was observed on movement. Wrist strength was equivalent to 80.8% of the healthy contra-lateral side. Radiographic results showed no anomaly of the resected ulna, no sign of abutment on the radius and no ulnar translation of the carpus at follow-up. Only one patient, who presented algoneurodystrophic syndrome after the initial trauma, had a recurrence after DURS. DRUJ injuries are frequent in the context of wrist trauma. If not well-treated, they could lead to significant functional sequelae of the wrist. Radiographic evaluation should clarify the status of the DRUJ to choose between conservative or radical surgical treatment. If the DRUJ surfaces are preserved, conservative treatment, which consists of correcting the distal radius malunion and stabilising or shortening the ulna, is the treatment of choice. When the DRUJ surfaces are injured, DURS is our treatment of choice. This approach presents a low complication rate and more than 90% of satisfactory results, often with a pain-free wrist, functional range of motion and good strength. However, a rigorous technique, with limited ulna head resection, dorsal capsuloplasty, reconstruction of the extensor retinaculum and dorsal placement of the extensor carpi ulnaris tendon, is a prerequisite for success. Level IV retrospective therapeutic study."}
{"id": "20452146", "title": "Failure of the interosseous membrane to heal with immobilization, pinning of the distal radioulnar joint, and bipolar radial head replacement in a case of Essex-Lopresti injury: case report.", "content": "Failure of the interosseous membrane to heal with immobilization, pinning of the distal radioulnar joint, and bipolar radial head replacement in a case of Essex-Lopresti injury: case report. The authors report a case of a patient with complex radial head and ulnar shaft fractures with an associated tear of the interosseous membrane, which failed to heal despite open reduction internal fixation of the ulna, a bipolar radial head replacement, and cross pinning of the distal radioulnar joint. This case demonstrates that failure of the interosseous membrane can occur even in a properly replaced bipolar radial head with adequate immobilization of the forearm and pinning of the distal radioulnar joint."}
{"id": "20437238", "title": "Floating fat in the wrist joint and in the tendon sheaths.", "content": "Floating fat in the wrist joint and in the tendon sheaths. A traumatic fat effusion in a tendon sheath is an unreported entity. We report on the clinical and imaging features, including radiography and computed tomography (CT), of a fat-density effusion in the wrist joint and tendon sheaths of the extensor pollicis longus, extensor carpi radialis longus, and extensor carpi radialis brevis in a 28-year-old patient after a roller-skating accident. Radiographs showed a fracture of the distal radius and a wrist joint effusion. Preoperative CT examination exhibited two distinct layers resulting in a fat-fluid level pathognomonic of lipohemarthrosis in the radiocarpal joint. In addition, a fat-density effusion was noted in the sheaths of the second and third compartment extensor tendons. The lipohemarthrosis depicted on imaging classically results from the extrusion of fat from bone marrow into the joint space after an intraarticular fracture. Similarly, a traumatic fat effusion in a tendon sheath presents characteristic imaging features that may help to diagnose a potentially overlooked fracture."}
{"id": "20418927", "title": "[Use of MRI for diagnosing scaphoid fracture].", "content": "[Use of MRI for diagnosing scaphoid fracture]. Oslo accident and emergency clinic (Oslo skadelegevakt) treats most scaphoid fractures in Oslo. The objectives of this study were to assess the usefulness of MRI in diagnosing such fractures and to determine the number of scaphoid fractures treated at our clinic, the number of patients treated with a scaphoid cast without having a fracture, the proportion of these fractures diagnosed with conventional radiographs and that diagnosed with MRI in a given period. The article is based on a review of medical records from all patients who had taken scaphoid radiographs at Oslo accident and emergency clinic in the period 1 July 2005 - 30 June 2006. 532 patients had their forearm immobilized in a scaphoid cast because of a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture or a diagnosed fracture. 154 of these (29 %) had a scaphoid fracture; 88 (57 %) of them were diagnosed by using conventional radiographs at the first consultation, 8 (5 %) were diagnosed at a second radiographic examination (after 1 to 2 weeks) and 58 (38 %) by use of MRI at a control visit. At the control visit 228 patients were referred to MRI; 91 (40 %) of them had a fracture (58 [25 %] had a scaphoid fracture and 33 [14 %] had other fractures). In children 10 - 14 years of age MRI was used to diagnose 22 of 26 scaphoid fractures. Three of four patients treated with a scaphoid cast due to a suspected scaphoid fracture had no fracture. Early MRI can reduce the time of immobilization for patients without fracture. Use of MRI to diagnose scaphoid fractures probably leads to treatment of some fractures that would heal without immobilization, especially in children who constituted the group most often diagnosed by MRI."}
{"id": "20385675", "title": "Role of MRI in the diagnosis of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture: analysis of 611 consecutive cases and literature review.", "content": "Role of MRI in the diagnosis of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture: analysis of 611 consecutive cases and literature review. A clinically suspected scaphoid fracture with normal initial plain x-rays is a difficult but common problem. The role of MRI as a diagnostic modality in this situation was analysed based on the experience of 611 consecutive cases. All patients presenting to the emergency department with a history of a fall on an outstretched hand and with tenderness over the anatomical snuff box and scaphoid tubercle but normal plain x-rays were offered MRI as part of the standard protocol. Between January 2003 and November 2005, 611 of a total of 619 such patients underwent the scan and form the study cohort. Coronal 3 mm T1 and Short Tau Inversion Recovery images were obtained using a 12 cm field of view as standard. There were 342 abnormal scans (56%) and 269 (44%) normal scans. Of the abnormal scans, 80% showed acute bony injuries, 8% showed acute soft tissue injuries and 12% showed incidental pathology. MRI is a useful and effective tool in the diagnosis of radiologically occult wrist injuries. It is feasible to do MRI scans in a timely manner in a district general hospital."}
{"id": "20299263", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of a fresh lunate bone fracture detaching the scapholunate ligament.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of a fresh lunate bone fracture detaching the scapholunate ligament. Fractures of the lunate bone are rare and usually treated by prolonged immobilization. We report a fracture of the dorsal pole of the lunate bone detaching the scapholunate ligament. The clinical presentation was equivalent to an acute disruption of this ligament. Percutaneous screw repair of the bone fragment was performed under wrist arthroscopy. The patient kept an analgesic splint for five days and early mobilization was provided. After 6 weeks, the patient had returned to his previous level of activity with normal wrist motion and full strength. Screw fixation under arthroscopy is minimally invasive and provides accurate restoration of the lunar anatomy, yielding good functional results after a short recovery period. This treatment offers a satisfactory alternative to prolonged immobilization and ensures good reduction and compression of the fracture. We present a detailed description of the surgical technique and its results."}
{"id": "20205070", "title": "[The primarly overlooked scaphoid fracture--a diagnostic challenge?].", "content": "[The primarly overlooked scaphoid fracture--a diagnostic challenge?]. Scaphoid fractures represent the most common carpal bone fractures. These fractures may be overlooked due to insufficient diagnostics and lead to non-union and disability. A standardized diagnostic procedure with X-ray examinations, CT scans and/or MRI is recommended. We report on a case where a scaphoid fracture was overlooked, probably because of an incorrect technique of the computed tomography. A 42-year-old man was admitted to our emergency room after a fall on the out-stretched wrist. X-rays showed no evidence of a bony lesion. In the follow-up examination on the next day, a scaphoid fracture was still suspected clinically. Because of that a CT scan in thin slice technique with axial layers and multiplanar reconstruction was performed but showed no sign of a fracture. Six weeks after the trauma the patient presented with persistent wrist pain. X-rays and a CT scan of the wrist now demonstrated an old waist fracture of the scaphoid. -Operative treatment with iliac crest bone grafting and screw fixation was performed. Early diagnosis and a correct description of the fracture pattern are of high value in the treatment of scaphoid fractures. X-rays combined with a CT scan or an MRI scan of the affected wrist are considered as the diagnostic standard. The reported case demonstrates that even with a thin thickness layer CT scan in axial planes, a scaphoid fracture can be overlooked. Therefore we recommend after primarily inconspicuous X-rays a CT scan with primary -oblique-sagittal layers in the longitudinal axis of the scaphoid. If this shows no fracture and the clinical suspicion persists, an MRI scan should be performed."}
{"id": "20200081", "title": "Bilateral pisiform fractures.", "content": "Bilateral pisiform fractures."}
{"id": "20193857", "title": "The incidence of intrinsic and extrinsic ligament injuries in scaphoid waist fractures.", "content": "The incidence of intrinsic and extrinsic ligament injuries in scaphoid waist fractures. To determine the incidence of associated intrinsic and extrinsic ligament injuries in patients with a nondisplaced or displaced scaphoid waist fracture. During a 3-year period, a study of all scaphoid fractures was performed at our institution. Diagnosis was confirmed by plain radiographs, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. A 3-part anatomic classification was used to categorize the scaphoid fractures. The study population comprised 40 patients with 41 scaphoid waist fractures who had wrist arthroscopy for treatment and evaluation of the scaphoid fracture and associated carpal injuries. We observed fresh intrinsic ligament injuries in 34 of 41 wrists. In 29 cases, the scapholunate ligament was injured, with complete rupture occurring in 10 wrists. The lunotriquetral ligament was injured in 8 wrists, and the triangular fibrocartilage complex was injured in 11 wrists. Statistically, the number of intrinsic ligament injuries did not differ between nondisplaced and displaced scaphoid fractures (p> .30). In this study of acute scaphoid waist fractures, the overall incidence of associated ligament injuries was surprisingly high, at 34 of 41 wrists. Complete scapholunate ligament rupture was found in 10 of 41 wrists. This incidence is higher than previously reported and emphasizes the need for careful assessment of the intrinsic and extrinsic ligaments, particularly the scapholunate ligament, before deciding on treatment."}
{"id": "20192143", "title": "Computer-assisted 3-dimensional anthropometry of the scaphoid.", "content": "Computer-assisted 3-dimensional anthropometry of the scaphoid. Scaphoid fracture fixation using a cannulated headless compression screw and the Matti-Russe procedure for the treatment of scaphoid nonunions are performed routinely. Surgeons performing these procedures need to be familiar with the anatomy of the scaphoid. A literature review reveals relatively few articles on this subject. The goal of this anatomical study was to measure the scaphoid using current technology and to discuss the findings with respect to the current, relevant literature.Computed tomography scans of 30 wrists were performed using a 64-slice SOMATOM Sensation CT system (resolution 0.6 mm) (Siemens Medical Solutions Inc, Malvern, Pennsylvania). Three-dimensional reconstructions from the raw data were generated by MIMICS software (Materialise, Leuven, Belgium). The scaphoid had a mean length of 26.0 mm (range, 22.3-30.7 mm), and men had a significantly longer (P<.001) scaphoid than women (27.861.6 mm vs 24.561.6 mm, respectively). The width and height were measured at 3 different levels for volume calculations, resulting in a mean volume of 3389.5 mm(3). Men had a significantly larger (P<.001) scaphoid volume than women (4057.86740.7 mm(3) vs 2846.56617.5 mm(3), respectively).We found considerable variation in the length and volume of the scaphoid in our cohort. We also demonstrated a clear correlation between scaphoid size and sex. Surgeons performing operative fixation of scaphoid fractures and corticocancellous bone grafting for nonunions need to be familiar with these anatomical variations."}
{"id": "20185138", "title": "Statistical descriptions of scaphoid and lunate bone shapes.", "content": "Statistical descriptions of scaphoid and lunate bone shapes. Diagnosing of injuries of the wrist bones is problematic due to a highly complex and variable geometry. knowledge of variations of healthy bone shapes is essential to detect wrist pathologies, developing prosthetics and investigating biomechanical properties of the wrist joint. In previous literature various methods have been proposed to classify different scaphoid and lunate types. These classifications were mainly qualitative or were based on a limited number of manually determined surface points. The purposes of this study are to develop a quantitative, standardized description of the variations in the scaphoid and lunate and to investigate whether it is feasible to divide carpal bones in isolated shape categories based on statistical grounds. The shape variations of the scaphoid and lunate were described by constructing a statistical shape model (SSM) of healthy bones. SSM shape parameters were determined that describe the deviation of each shape from the mean shape. The first five modes of variation in the SSMs describe 60% of the total variance of the scaphoid and 57% of the lunate. Higher modes describe less than 5% of the variance per mode. The distributions of the parameters that characterize the bone shape variations along the modes do not significantly differ from a normal distribution. The SSM provides a description of possible shape variations and the distribution of scaphoid and lunate shapes in our population at an accuracy of approximately the voxel size (0.3x0.3x0.3mm(3)). The developed statistical shape model represents the previously qualitatively described variations of scaphoid and lunate. However, strict classifications based on shape differences are not feasible on statistical grounds."}
{"id": "20162385", "title": "Fractures in brief: scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Fractures in brief: scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "20135602", "title": "[Mid-term results after volar plating of distal radius fractures with a newly designed locking plate].", "content": "[Mid-term results after volar plating of distal radius fractures with a newly designed locking plate]. The purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the clinical and radiographic results after operative treatment of dislocated distal radius fractures with a new self-locking volar plate system. 67 patients (average age 61.4 years) with a dislocated distal radius fracture were treated with the ITS plate system. Clinical and radiographic evaluation was done with a mean follow-up of 9.3 months. The mean DASH score reached 14 points, the modified Gartland/Werley score was 6.9. There was one loss of reduction on radiographic evaluation, which yielded to a dorsal osteosynthesis. Average postoperative radial inclination was 20.5 degrees (16-29 degrees) and the volar tilt 9.3 degrees (3-15 degrees). One plate had to be removed after three months because of dislocation of a malpositioned screw. There were no cases of infection or tendon ruptures. No patient required autograft bone. This new locking plate system offers an excellent option in the treatment of dislocated distal radius fractures, especially in osteoporotic bone with a dorsal comminution."}
{"id": "20135600", "title": "[Management of complex intra-articular distal radius fractures with open reduction and internal fixation with double dorsal locking plates].", "content": "[Management of complex intra-articular distal radius fractures with open reduction and internal fixation with double dorsal locking plates]. In this prospective study we have analysed the clinical outcome of complex distal radius fractures that were reduced by a dorsal approach and fixed with 2 dorsal locking plates. In the period from January 2006 to June 2008 60 patients with a distal intra-articular instable radius fracture, who were treated with the above mentioned procedure, were prospectively included in this study. All fractures showed signs of a complex and dorsal instability. X-rays and CT scans were taken preoperatively. Follow-up examinations and X-rays were conducted after 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year. The clinical outcome was measured with the aid of the disability of arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) score (0-100 points). The functional outcome was measured with the Gartland and Wearley score (0-21 points). Subjective pain levels were noted with the visual analogue scale (0-10 points). 60 patients were examined after 6 weeks and 6 months. 40 patients were examined after 1 year. The average age was 56 (range: 16-78 years). In 36% of the cases we found an accompanying injury of the upper extremity that had to be treated operatively. The DASH score improved on average from 47 points after 6 weeks (28 points after 6 months) to 24 points after 1 year. The subjective pain level after 1 year was 2.4 points under stress and 1.1 points in relaxation. The Gartland and Wearley score showed an improvement of function of the wrist from 9.9 points after 6 weeks to 7.4 points after 1 year, which is considered a good result. In 12 cases reoperations were necessary, in 6 cases due to a postoperative carpal tunnel syndrome (10%) and in 1 case due to an infection of the wound. Dorsal instable radius fractures can be stabilised in a satisfactory way. It is possible to achieve good results, assuming an exact analysis of the fracture and of the associated injuries is performed."}
{"id": "20130313", "title": "Free vascularised iliac bone graft for recalcitrant avascular nonunion of the scaphoid.", "content": "Free vascularised iliac bone graft for recalcitrant avascular nonunion of the scaphoid. We report the use of a free vascularised iliac bone graft in the treatment of 21 patients (19 men and 2 women) with an avascular nonunion of the scaphoid in which conventional bone grafting had previously failed. The mean age of the patients was 32 years (23 to 46) and the dominant wrist was affected in 14. The mean interval from fracture to the vascularised bone grafting was 39 months (9 to 62). Pre-operative MRI showed no contrast enhancement in the proximal fragment in any patient. Fracture union was assessed radiologically or with CT scans if the radiological appearances were inconclusive. At a mean follow-up of 5.6 years (2 to 11) union was obtained in 16 patients. The remaining five patients with a persistent nonunion continued to experience pain, reduced grip strength and limited range of wrist movement. In the successfully treated patients the grip strength and range of movement did not recover to match the uninjured side. Prevention of progressive carpal collapse, the absence of donor site morbidity, good subjective results and pain relief, justifies this procedure in the treatment of recalcitrant nonunion of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "20106703", "title": "Trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocation with fractured carpal bones in a child.", "content": "Trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocation with fractured carpal bones in a child. Transcarpal fractures and dislocations in children are rarely reported in the orthopedics literature. This is a report of a 10-year-old boy who sustained a trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocation with fractures across the carpal structure: these included injuries to the scaphoid, capitate and triquetrum bones. Treatment consisted in a closed reduction for the dislocation and using the dorsal approach of an open reduction with internal fixation of the fractures. The injury healed well with a full return of good wrist function. This unusual pattern of injury is described so that it may be more readily appreciated in the future."}
{"id": "20060233", "title": "Differential strain of the axially loaded scapholunate interosseus ligament.", "content": "Differential strain of the axially loaded scapholunate interosseus ligament. To directly measure strain changes in the scapholunate ligament via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) when axially loading the wrist in the neutral and extended positions. Six asymptomatic male volunteers without known history of previous wrist injury were enrolled in this MRI-based study. Each subject underwent 3 MRI scans in a 3T scanner: in resting neutral position, in neutral with axial load applied, and in extension with axial load applied. Axial load was applied via extension of an elastic band with known force/elongation curve. We analyzed images and converted them to 3-dimensional stereolithographs. Attachment points of the palmar, proximal, and dorsal sections of the scapholunate interosseus ligament (SLIL) were identified. The lengths of the resulting vectors were recorded for each position. Strain, defined as change in length divided by original length, was calculated for the axially loaded neutral and extended wrists. We used the Bonferroni adjusted multiple comparisons from an analysis of variance model, with statistical significance defined as p < .05. Strains were significantly greater in the palmar (p = .02) and proximal (p = .01) subregions of the SLIL in loaded extension versus loaded neutral positions. In contrast, the strain on the dorsal component in extension was not statistically greater than in the neutral position (p = .45). Axial load in neutral resulted in minimal strain of all 3 components of the SLIL complex, and these were not significantly different from each other (p > .99). With extension, the strains of the palmar (p = .03) and proximal (p = .006) regions were statistically greater than that of the dorsal component. In extension, strain is greatest in the palmar and proximal portions of the intact SLIL. Axial load in neutral applies minimal strain to the SLIL complex. Avoiding axial loading in extension and encouraging loading in neutral position may allow for decreased injury and more effective healing of the scapholunate ligament."}
{"id": "20032769", "title": "Detection of occult wrist fractures using quantitative scintigraphy.", "content": "Detection of occult wrist fractures using quantitative scintigraphy."}
{"id": "20032000", "title": "Percutaneous retrograde screw fixation of non-displaced fractures of the scaphoid waist: an antirotation wire may not be necessary.", "content": "Percutaneous retrograde screw fixation of non-displaced fractures of the scaphoid waist: an antirotation wire may not be necessary. Some authors recommend using an antirotation wire when performing percutaneous screw fixation of acute non-displaced scaphoid waist fractures. The aim of this study of 21 cadaveric wrists was to assess the usefulness of such a wire in Herbert's B2-type fractures. A B2-type fracture was created experimentally on each scaphoid. An antirotation wire was inserted in eight wrists. Retrograde percutaneous fixation using a double-threaded headless cannulated screw was performed on all wrists. Computed tomography was used to measure interfragmentary rotation. No interfragmentary rotation was noted in either group. Our study suggests that using an antirotation wire may be unnecessary when performing retrograde percutaneous screw fixation of isolated B2-type scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "19911892", "title": "Age- and time-dependent effects on functional outcome and cortical activation pattern in patients with median nerve injury: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Age- and time-dependent effects on functional outcome and cortical activation pattern in patients with median nerve injury: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study. The authors conducted a study to determine age- and time-dependent effects on the functional outcome after median nerve injury and repair and how such effects are related to changes in the pattern of cortical activation in response to tactile stimulation of the injured hand. The authors studied 11 patients with complete unilateral median nerve injury at the wrist repaired with epineural suture. In addition, 8 patients who were reported on in a previous study were included in the statistical analysis. In the entire study cohort, the mean age at injury was 23.3 +/- 13.4 years (range 7-57 years) and the time after injury ranged from 1 to 11 years. Sensory perception was measured with the static 2-point discrimination test and monofilaments. Functional MR imaging was conducted during tactile stimulation (brush strokes) of Digits II-III and IV-V of both hands, respectively. Tactile sensation was diminished in the median territory in all patients. The strongest predictor of 2-point discrimination was age at injury (p < 0.0048), and when this was accounted for in the regression analysis, the other age- and time-dependent predictors had no effect. The activation ratios (injured/healthy hand) for Digit II-III and Digit IV-V stimulation were positively correlated (rho 0.59, p < 0.011). The activation ratio for Digit II-III stimulation correlated weakly with time after injury (p < 0.041). The activation ratio of Digits IV-V correlated weakly with both age at injury (p < 0.048) and time after injury (p < 0.033), but no predictor reached significance in the regression model. The mean ratio of ipsi- and contralateral hemisphere activation after stimulation of the injured hand was 0.55, which was not significantly different from the corresponding ratio of the healthy hand (0.66). Following a median nerve injury (1-11 years after injury) there may be an initial increase in the volume of the cortical representation, which subsequently declines during the restoration phase. These dynamic changes may involve both median and ulnar nerve cortical representation, because both showed negative correlation with time after injury. These findings are in agreement with animal studies showing that cortical plasticity is an important mechanism for functional recovery after peripheral nerve injury and repair."}
{"id": "19894054", "title": "Clinical and radiological outcomes after stabilisation of complex intra-articular fractures of the distal radius with the volar 2.4 mm LCP.", "content": "Clinical and radiological outcomes after stabilisation of complex intra-articular fractures of the distal radius with the volar 2.4 mm LCP. The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the results of the treatment of intra-articular fractures with the volar 2.4 mm LCP with regard to loss of reduction, clinical outcome and complications. Patients treated with a volar 2.4 mm LCP following a complex intra-articular distal radius fracture were assessed by clinical and radiological examination of both wrists, the Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) outcome instrument, Martini score and the pain Visual Analogue Scale score. Forty patients (40 fractures: 5 type C1, 11 type C2, and 24 type C3 according to AO/OTA classification) were followed at a mean 18 months from the injury. Of the initial 40 fractures, 4 fractures required surgical revision (1 because of loss of reduction, 2 due to fracture incongruity as seen on the postoperative computer tomogram and 1 case of screw displacement in the radial shaft). Radiographs in the immediate postoperative period showed a radial inclination of 22.1 degrees, volar tilt of 7.2 degrees, and ulnar deviation of 0.2 mm (means). At follow-up examination, radial inclination was 23.8 degrees, volar tilt was 6.2 degrees and ulnar deviation was 0.9 mm (means). Average final wrist range of motion was significantly (p < 0.05) decreased in comparison to contralateral wrist. Average DASH and Martini scores were 18 and 27, respectively, with no significant differences between C1-, C2- and C3-type fractures. Patients who underwent a surgical revision had poorer Martini score. Complications were an EPL tendon rupture, a tendon irritation and a complex regional pain syndrome in a patient who underwent revision. The treatment of complex intra-articular distal radius fractures with the volar 2.4 mm LCP provides sufficient fixation to prevent clinically significant loss of articular reduction, acceptable patient outcomes and minimal soft tissue complications."}
{"id": "19826314", "title": "Modified fluoroscopic imaging technique for the central screw placement in percutaneous screw fixation of scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Modified fluoroscopic imaging technique for the central screw placement in percutaneous screw fixation of scaphoid fracture. : The fluoroscopic imaging technique that has been used in the dorsal percutaneous screw fixation of scaphoid fracture was modified for more consistent central screw placement according to the different fracture locations. : Eighteen scaphoids of the fresh-frozen cadaver were used. The computed tomographic data of scaphoid were reconstructed for 3D images. The reconstructed image was three dimensionally rotated to define the outlining images of scaphoid according to the three imaginary fracture lines (proximal 1/3, waist, distal 1/3). Two dimensional plain radiographic images were taken based on the 3D image to show the overlapping shapes of outer cortical lines of proximal and distal scaphoid. Under the fluoroscopic guidance, guide wire was inserted after the previously obtained 2D images. To verify the accuracy of fluoroscopic guidance for the fixation, the scaphoid was cut through each fracture plane and central position of each guide wire was analyzed. : For the proximal 1/3 fracture, the proximal cortical line was positioned on the radial side to the distal cortical line. For the waist fracture, two cortical shadows were eclipsed and for the distal 1/3, proximal cortical line was positioned ulna side to the distal cortical line. The cut surface analysis revealed statistically significant results of central guide wire placement for each fracture plane. : The fluoroscopic images should be individualized according to the fracture planes for more consistent and accurate central guide wire placement in the dorsal percutaneous screw fixation of scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "19756904", "title": "Diagnosing suspected scaphoid fractures: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Diagnosing suspected scaphoid fractures: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Imaging protocols for suspected scaphoid fractures among investigators and hospitals are markedly inconsistent. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess and compare the diagnostic performance of bone scintigraphy, MRI, and CT for diagnosing suspected scaphoid fractures. Twenty-six studies were included. Sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic odds ratio were pooled separately and summary receiver operating characteristic curves were fitted for each modality. Meta-regression analyses were performed to compare these modalities. We obtained likelihood ratios derived from the pooled sensitivity and specificity and, using Bayes' theorem, calculated the posttest probability by application of the tests. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, natural logarithm of the diagnostic odds ratio, and the positive and negative likelihood ratios were, respectively, 97%, 89%, 4.78, 8.82, and 0.03 for bone scintigraphy; 96%, 99%, 6.60, 96, and 0.04 for MRI; and 93%, 99%, 6.11, 93, and 0.07 for CT. Bone scintigraphy and MRI have equally high sensitivity and high diagnostic value for excluding scaphoid fracture; however, MRI is more specific and better for confirming scaphoid fracture. We believe additional studies are needed to assess diagnostic performance of CT, especially paired design studies or randomized controlled trials to compare CT with MRI or bone scintigraphy. Level III, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19662447", "title": "Multiple occult wrist bone injuries and joint effusions: prevalence and distribution on MRI.", "content": "Multiple occult wrist bone injuries and joint effusions: prevalence and distribution on MRI. This study aims (1) to assess the prevalence and distribution of multiple occult injuries of the carpal bones and the distal forearm in patients with wrist pain and negative radiographs following trauma and (2) to evaluate the distribution and significance of joint effusions in the wrists with multiple osseous injuries. One hundred and thirty-one subjects, 74 men and 57 women, were consecutively examined in two institutions. All were acute trauma patients with negative X-rays whose clinical examination suggested possible fracture at the wrist or the distal forearm. Magnetic resonance (MR) wrist imaging was performed with and without fat saturation sequences. The MR images were analysed for detection of occult trabecular contusions and cortical discontinuity in the carpus, the distal forearm and the metacarpal bases. The prevalence and distribution of the injuries were assessed along with the distribution of joint effusions. Eight patients were excluded due to inadequate image quality. Two patients had bilateral injury. A total of 125 wrists were analysed. Seventy-eight (62.4%) wrists had occult bone injuries. Among these 78, 53 (68%) wrists had more than one injured bone. Twenty-five wrists (32%) had one injured bone. The highest number of injured bones per wrist was six. Injuries with a visible fracture line were seen in 29 (37.1%) wrists on MRI. The distal radius was the most frequent location for occult fracture line (11 cases). The injuries without a fracture line (contusion) were present in 49 (63%) wrists; they were detected more frequently in the scaphoid (35 cases). The lunate (29 cases) and the triquetrum (26 cases) were almost equally affected. The bone that was less frequently injured was the pisiform (four cases). Joint effusions were present in all 53 wrists with multiple bone lesions but more often situated in the ulnocarpal space [27 (50.3%) wrists]. There was no correlation between effusions in multiple locations (grades III and IV) and multiple bone injuries. This study revealed the presence of multifocal trabecular contusions without correlation with increased joint effusions in patients with negative radiographs and persistent pain. The clinical significance of these findings deserves further investigation."}
{"id": "19471945", "title": "Radiological radio-carpal and mid-carpal motion after operative treatment of dorsal radio-carpal fracture dislocations.", "content": "Radiological radio-carpal and mid-carpal motion after operative treatment of dorsal radio-carpal fracture dislocations. Radio-carpal fracture dislocations are rare severe injuries typically seen following high energy trauma. This injury is characterized by complete dislocation of the radio-carpal joint with avulsion fracture of dorsal or palmar cortical rim of the distal radius combined with disruption of the radio-carpal ligament complex. The purpose of our study is to assess the radiological motion outcome of the radio-carpal joint after Moneim type 1 radio-carpal fracture dislocations following surgical treatment. Only Moneim type 1 injuries were included in this study. Eight patients with Moneim type 1 injuries were identified by retrospective examination of our fracture registry and included in this study. All patients were initially treated with closed reduction and plaster immobilization. CT scans were performed after reduction. Operative treatment consisted of anatomic reduction of the distal radial rim fractures and fixation with a small T-plate through a dorsal approach. Cancellous bone graft was utilized if necessary to support the articular surface. Repair of the palmar radio-carpal ligament complex was performed through a palmar wrist approach. Antero-posterior, lateral, as well as lateral flexion and extension radiographs were taken at an average follow-up of 4.1 years. Follow-up radiologic evaluation of standard lateral radiograph revealed a mean scapholunate angle of 55.6\u00b0. The mean capitolunate angle was found to be \u221211.6\u00b0 and the mean radio-capitate angle was 10.5\u00b0. The average noted angles in maximum flexion were as follows: radiolunate 15.3\u00b0, capitolunate 18\u00b0 and radiocapitate 30\u00b0. The average angles in maximum extension were: radiolunate \u221223.9\u00b0, capitolunate \u221231\u00b0 and radiocapitate \u221255\u00b0. At follow-up, arthritic changes were assessed radiographically using the classification described by Knirk and Jupiter. Fifty-six percent of the patients were found to exhibit stage 1 traumatic arthritis, 33% had stage 2 traumatic arthritis and 11% exhibited stage 3 traumatic arthritis with radio-carpal joint space obliteration. Rigid bony fixation and palmar radio-carpal ligament repair of Moneim Type 1 radio-carpal dislocations resulted in preservation of sagittal plane motion of the proximal carpal row in eight of nine cases. Our data suggest that surgical reconstruction of Moneim type 1 injuries is the preferred treatment and usually leads to satisfactory range of motion."}
{"id": "18989609", "title": "Comparison of a PACS workstation with laser hard copies for detecting scaphoid fractures in the emergency department.", "content": "Comparison of a PACS workstation with laser hard copies for detecting scaphoid fractures in the emergency department. Picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) for imaging studies is rapidly being adopted in hospitals throughout the UK. However, very little comparison has been made between PACS and laser hard copies for assessing the diagnostic accuracy of detecting fractures by emergency physicians. A prospective paired comparison study was undertaken looking at correct reporting of scaphoid X-rays on PACS and conventional film by emergency department medical staff. A total of 34 imaging studies were reported by 38 physicians using both PACS workstations and laser-printed films. The percentage of emergency physicians correctly reporting imaging studies was similar when comparing PACS images to laser film copies (80.7% versus 81.0%). The sensitivity and specificity of PACS for diagnosing scaphoid fractures was 79.5% and 81.6%, versus 78.1% and 83.8% for conventional films. There is no significant difference in accuracy of diagnosis between PACS and laser film copies when scaphoid X-rays are reported by emergency physicians."}
{"id": "20084936", "title": "[Application of absorbable screw in treatment of scaphoid fracture by retrograde internal fixation].", "content": "[Application of absorbable screw in treatment of scaphoid fracture by retrograde internal fixation]. To evaluate the surgical effects of treatment of scaphoid fracture with retrograde internal fixation using absorbable screw. From December 2001 to December 2007, 18 cases of scaphoid fracture were treated with absorbable screw by retrograde internal fixation. There were 12 males and 6 females with an average age of 26 years ranging from 17 to 40 years. Ten cases were medium fractures of scaphoid and 8 cases were proximal fraxtures. All patients were followed-up for from 12 to 36 months (means 25 months). Among them, 17 cases were union and 1 case was nonunion. The mean time of union was 13 weeks. The mean range of motion of wrist was about 90% and mean scratch strength of wrist was about 95% to fine lateral. There were no pain in 14 cases, and slight pain in 3, medial pain in 1 casea of ununion. According to Cooney's clinical evaluation system, the score was increased from (68.2 +/- 1.5) before operation to (88.7 +/- 1.2) after operation, the postoperative score was higher than preoperative remarkable; 9 patients were fine, 8 were good and 1 was bad. This technology had some advantage such as simple surgery, decreasing demonstrate rest blood circulation, stable fixation, reducing bone healing time and increasing healing time. It is an effective way to treat scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "20058123", "title": "[Stabilization of perilunate and transscaphoid perilunate fracture-dislocations via a combined palmar and dorsal approach].", "content": "[Stabilization of perilunate and transscaphoid perilunate fracture-dislocations via a combined palmar and dorsal approach]. Restoration of the intercarpal alignment and the radio- and ulnocarpal joint in order to avoid the development of a carpal collapse with concomitant arthritis of the radiocarpal and midcarpal joint. All perilunate and transscaphoid perilunate fracture-dislocations. An exception is a pure ligamentous injury with anatomic carpal alignment following closed reduction (computed tomography scan). General contraindications to an operative procedure. It is crucial that all involved bony and ligamentous structures are addressed, using a bilateral approach. Depending on their location, scaphoid fractures are stabilized from proximal or distal, and bony avulsions are fixed at their origin. The typical rent across the palmar ligaments is closed, and the avulsed scapholunate ligament and the dorsal intercarpal ligament are reattached to the adjacent bones. Temporary Kirschner wire fixation is essential for healing. Forearm plaster cast with short thumb for 12 weeks. Kirschner wire removal after 8 weeks. 25 patients (15 perilunate dislocations and ten perilunate fracture-dislocations) could be included for follow-up 5 years after the trauma. Perilunate fracture-dislocations achieved slightly better results than perilunate dislocations. The DASH Score (Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand) averaged 11.3 and 14.2 points, the PRWE Score (Patient- Related Wrist Evaluation) 20.7 and 27.7 points, respectively. The Mayo Wrist Score amounted to 81.5 and 82.7 points. Active range of wrist motion was reduced by one third compared with the opposite side. Grip strength was reduced by 15-20%. The pain level ranged between 2 and 4 on a scale from 0 to 10. In pure ligamentous injuries, degenerative arthritis was more common in the midcarpal joint, whereas radiocarpal arthritis predominated in the fracture-dislocation group."}
{"id": "20058116", "title": "[NITINOL shape memory staple for osteosynthesis of the scaphoid].", "content": "[NITINOL shape memory staple for osteosynthesis of the scaphoid]. Reconstruction of the scaphoid with use of NITINOL shape \"memory\" staples. Unstable fractures and nonunion of the middle third of the scaphoid, which need open reduction and internal fixation from palmar. The staples can only be used, if the arms of the staples can be inserted parallel to and at a distance of 3 mm to the fracture line. Allergy to nickel. Cases in which the arms of the staple cannot be inserted parallel to and at best 3 mm apart from the fracture line. In fractures, open reduction of the scaphoid through a palmar approach. If necessary, interposition of a bone graft and Kirschner wire transfixation. Drilling of the drill holes parallel and at a distance of 3 mm to the fracture line. Insertion of the NITINOL staple. In nonunion, excision of the fibrous nonunion, refreshening of the fracture surfaces, interposition of a bone graft and, if needed, fixation with a Kirschner wire. Drilling of the drill holes for the NITINOL staple and insertion of the staple. Within a few minutes the warming-up staple contracts and thereby compresses the scaphoid. Immobilization in a short cast with thumb support for 6 weeks. Control for bone healing by radiographs or computed tomography. Staples, which do not cause hardware problems, are not removed. Kirschner wires are removed after bone healing. From October 1995 to December 2006, the authors used NITINOL staples for 65 osteosyntheses of the scaphoid. Indications were 15 unstable fractures, 47 nonunions, and three partial necroses. 61 out of 65 scaphoids healed without further surgery, three of the 61 patients showed a delayed healing. Two of the four nonunions were related to the use of the NITINOL staples. Seven staples were removed, one for loosening. NITINOL shape memory staples have proven to be very helpful for osteosynthesis in fractures and nonunion of the scaphoid, if the prerequisites are given for their use."}
{"id": "20048493", "title": "Clinical examination of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Clinical examination of scaphoid fractures. Undetected scaphoid fractures may lead to complications, including nonunion, malunion, avascular necrosis, and wrist arthritis. A competent physical examination is essential for the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures in the setting of occult fractures presenting with normal radiographs. The differential diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures includes acute tears of the scaphoid-lunate ligament, Kienbock's disease, occult ganglion, nondisplaced radial styloid fractures, and injury to the radial aspect of the radio-scapho-capitate ligament. All of these may have normal plain radiographs but often can be distinguished based on physical examination findings. The 2 key points of such an examination include the exact location of point tenderness and provocative special tests. Although Watson's scaphoid shift test is classically described for scaphoid instability, we highlight its significance in the setting of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "19969191", "title": "Comparison of percutaneous dorsal versus volar fixation of scaphoid waist fractures using a computer model in cadavers.", "content": "Comparison of percutaneous dorsal versus volar fixation of scaphoid waist fractures using a computer model in cadavers. Percutaneous screw fixation (PSF) is widely used to treat acute nondisplaced scaphoid waist fractures. PSF can be performed through a volar or dorsal approach. The aim of our study was to compare a dorsal versus volar surgical approach for PSF according to the sagittal orientation of the waist fracture (B1 or B2 in Herbert and Fisher's classification scheme, in which B1 and B2 designate, respectively, oblique and transverse nondisplaced scaphoid waist fractures) on computer modeling of cadaver wrists. We used 12 upper limbs, and for each wrist we performed 3 computed tomography scans in maximal flexion, neutral position, and maximal extension. For each position, a parasagittal slice corresponding to the plane of ideal screw placement was obtained by numerical reconstruction. On each slice, we modeled B1- and B2-type fractures and the placement of the corresponding screws (S1 and S2) inserted through a volar or dorsal approach. Optimal screw orientation was perpendicular to the fracture. For each configuration, we measured the angle between the S1 screw and B1 fracture, which we designated V1 when modeling volar PSF and D1 when modeling dorsal PSF. Similarly, we measured angles V2 and D2. For B2 fractures, virtual screw placement perpendicular to the fracture was achieved equally well with the 2 approaches. For B1 fractures, the virtual screw could not be placed perpendicular to the fracture with either approach, but the dorsal approach with maximal wrist flexion allowed the best screw placement. For B2 fractures, the dorsal and volar approaches allow optimal virtual screw placement, and the choice of the approach depends on the surgeon's preference. For B1 fractures, we recommend the dorsal approach."}
{"id": "19959447", "title": "Undisplaced scaphoid waist fractures: is 4 weeks' immobilisation in a below-elbow cast sufficient if a week 4 CT scan suggests fracture union?", "content": "Undisplaced scaphoid waist fractures: is 4 weeks' immobilisation in a below-elbow cast sufficient if a week 4 CT scan suggests fracture union? This prospective study investigated a cohort of 59 scaphoid waist fractures which were treated nonoperatively in a below-elbow plaster cast for 4 weeks and then underwent a Week 4 CT scan to assess displacement and progress to union. Forty-three were classed as undisplaced and 37 of these 43 were also classed as 'united'. All the 37 undisplaced and 'united' fractures united with up to 8 weeks' cast immobilisation, including 26 which were taken out of plaster at 4 weeks and mobilised. We conclude that scaphoid waist fractures which appear to be undisplaced and united on a week 4 CT scan will unite, and may not need to be immobilised in a plaster cast for more than 4 weeks. Such a treatment policy may reduce the period of disability and time off work associated with nonoperative treatment."}
{"id": "19952615", "title": "Dorsal dislocation of the lunate with distal radius fracture.", "content": "Dorsal dislocation of the lunate with distal radius fracture."}
{"id": "19887294", "title": "MR imaging of traumatic and overuse injuries of the wrist and hand in athletes.", "content": "MR imaging of traumatic and overuse injuries of the wrist and hand in athletes. Traumatic and overuse injuries of the hand and wrist are common in athletes. Increasingly, MR imaging is being used to complement clinical and radiographic assessment in the diagnosis and management of these injuries. MR imaging is able to image accurately the bones, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and other small structures of the hand and wrist. This article provides an overview of traumatic and overuse injuries of the hand and wrist in athletes and a review of the MR imaging appearances."}
{"id": "19847413", "title": "MR imaging of overuse injuries in the skeletally immature gymnast: spectrum of soft-tissue and osseous lesions in the hand and wrist.", "content": "MR imaging of overuse injuries in the skeletally immature gymnast: spectrum of soft-tissue and osseous lesions in the hand and wrist. In the pediatric gymnast, stress-related physeal injuries have been well described with characteristic imaging findings. However, a spectrum of overuse injuries, some rarely reported in the literature, can be encountered in the gymnast's hand and wrist. To demonstrate the MR appearance of a spectrum of overuse injuries in the skeletally immature wrist and hand of pediatric gymnasts. A total of 125 MR exams of the hand and wrist in skeletally immature children were performed at our institution during a 2-year period. Clinical histories were reviewed for gymnastics participation. MR studies of that subpopulation were reviewed and abnormalities tabulated. Of the MR studies reviewed, ten gymnasts were identified, all girls age 12-16 years (mean age 14.2 years) who presented with wrist or hand pain. Three of these children had bilateral MR exams. Abnormalities included chronic physeal injuries in three children. Two girls exhibited focal lunate osteochondral defects. Triangular fibrocartilage tears were present in three girls, one of whom had a scapholunate ligament tear. Two girls manifested metacarpal head flattening and necrosis. A variety of soft-tissue and osseous lesions can be encountered in the skeletally immature gymnast. Familiarity with these stress-related injuries is important for accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "19806529", "title": "[Distal radius fractures].", "content": "[Distal radius fractures]."}
{"id": "19805581", "title": "Treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. Surgical technique.", "content": "Treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. Surgical technique. Surgically, it is difficult to achieve union of a scaphoid nonunion that is associated with osteonecrosis of the proximal pole, and those with carpal collapse are especially difficult to treat. A variety of vascularized bone grafts can be used. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of two types of vascularized bone graft -- a distal radial pedicle graft and a free vascularized medial femoral condyle graft -- in the treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions associated with proximal pole osteonecrosis and carpal collapse. A retrospective review was conducted at two institutions to identify all patients with a scaphoid waist nonunion associated with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. Between January 1994 and June 2006, twenty-two such nonunions were identified in twenty-two patients. Ten were treated with a distal radial pedicle vascularized graft and twelve, with a free vascularized medial femoral condyle graft. Patient demographics were similar between the groups, and the duration of follow-up averaged twelve months. Union was determined with use of plain radiographs and computed tomography or trispiral tomograms. In addition, carpal angles, time to union, union rates, and complications were recorded. Four of the ten nonunions treated with the distal radial pedicle graft healed, at a median of nineteen weeks, and all twelve nonunions treated with the free medial femoral condyle graft healed, at a median of thirteen weeks. The rate of union was significantly higher (p = 0.005) and the median time to healing was significantly shorter (p < 0.001) for the nonunions treated with the medial femoral condyle graft. A vascularized interposition graft from the medial femoral condyle is the recommended vascularized bone graft for the surgical treatment of scaphoid waist nonunion with avascularity of the proximal pole and carpal collapse."}
{"id": "19794180", "title": "Bilateral idiopathic avascular necrosis of the scaphoid: a rare case of Preiser's disease.", "content": "Bilateral idiopathic avascular necrosis of the scaphoid: a rare case of Preiser's disease. Whereas avascular necrosis of the scaphoid after a fracture is well-documented, idiopathic avascular necrosis of the scaphoid (Preiser's disease) is rare. Little is known of the aetiology of the condition and even less about the best course of management. We describe a rare case of bilateral Preiser's disease. Possible aetiological factors and a summary of the current concepts of management are discussed."}
{"id": "19790024", "title": "[Palmar wrist arthroscopy for evaluation of concomitant carpal lesions in operative treatment of distal intraarticular radius fractures].", "content": "[Palmar wrist arthroscopy for evaluation of concomitant carpal lesions in operative treatment of distal intraarticular radius fractures]. Fractures of the distal radius, which currently are treated with palmar locking plates, are often accompanied by carpal lesions. Tears of the scapholunate interosseus ligament (SL) can affect the outcome. Between January 2007 and May 2008, 28 patients with distal intraarticular fractures of the radius were included in a prospective study. Preoperative CT-arthrography was performed. SL tears were found in 11 patients, with 10 partial and one complete rupture observed. A tear of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) was detected in 16 patients. Every patient was operated with a palmar locking plate through a palmar approach between the flexor carpi radialis tendon and the radial artery. Then, a palmar wrist arthroscopy using a palmar portal was performed. Eleven SL tears with 9 partial and two total ruptures were diagnosed by arthroscopy. Ten lesions were associated with a C1-fracture with a fracture line projected onto the scapholunate interval. The TFCC was appraisable by palmar wrist arthroscopy only in 4 patients. Three of the SL tears detected by CT-arthrography could not be confirmed by palmar wrist arthroscopy. One complete rupture and one partial lesion confirmed by palmar wrist arthroscopy were found by CT-arthrography to be intact. Palmar wrist arthroscopy affords certainty when assessing the SL ligament. In this study, an assessment of ulnocarpal structures was not possible. For assessment of the ulnocarpal structures, CT-arthrography was superior to palmar wrist arthroscopy. However, the latter is an alternative during emergency treatment or when CT-arthrography is not available."}
{"id": "19766410", "title": "Lunate-lunate facet ratio and variance to predict articular gap after distal radius fracture.", "content": "Lunate-lunate facet ratio and variance to predict articular gap after distal radius fracture. Intra-articular gap is a well-defined prognosticator of outcome after distal radius fracture. However, it is often difficult to assess on plain radiographs, particularly in the sagittal plane, as visualized on the lateral view. The purposes of this study were to establish normal values for the lunate-lunate facet ratio (LLFR) and to evaluate whether the LLFR and lunate-lunate facet variance (LLFV) are reliable plain film measures of sagittal articular gap in distal radius fractures compared with sagittal reconstructions of computed tomography (CT) scans. We studied 35 uninjured, skeletally mature wrist radiographs to establish the normal LLFR value. The LLFR was defined as the ratio of the maximum width of the lunate (A) to the width of a line spanning the maximum distance from dorsal to volar across the articular surface of the lunate facet, defined by the end point of the radiographically thickened line representing the subchondral bone (B). The LLFV was determined as measurement B minus measurement A. Interobserver and intraobserver reliability for 2 observers were examined by the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for measurements of the uninjured wrists and for the same measurements of 20 intra-articular distal radius fractures. For 12 of the subjects with fractures, the LLFR and LLFV were correlated with the intra-articular gap as measured on CT scan using simple linear regression. The mean value of the LLFR in the normal subjects was 1.00 +/- 0.04 for observer 1 and 1.00 +/- 0.02 for observer 2. There was significant intraobserver reliability for both uninjured (ICC = 0.83, p < .001) and fractured wrists (ICC = 0.87, p < .001), as well as significant interobserver reliability for uninjured (ICC = 0.69, p < .001) and fractured wrists (ICC = 0.64, p = .015). The LLFR was significantly associated with articular gap on sagittal CT reconstructions (R(2) = -0.81, p < .01). The LLFV correlated highly with articular gap on sagittal CT reconstructions (R(2) = 0.83, p < .01). The LLFR, measured on the lateral radiograph of the wrist, exhibits high intraobserver and interobserver reliability, with a normal value of 1.0. Both the LLFR and the LLFV are significantly related to articular gap on sagittal CT reconstruction images. The LLFR decreases with increasing intra-articular gap formation. The LLFV allows a direct estimation of articular gap size. Diagnostic III."}
{"id": "19766034", "title": "[Analysis of acute distal radius fractures with the articular sagittal index (ASI)].", "content": "[Analysis of acute distal radius fractures with the articular sagittal index (ASI)]. Displacements of articular fragments are not always visible on initial radiographs of acute distal radius fractures. Despite the wide use of CT scan, it may be useful to know a simple index that could suggest an articular displaced fracture from the initial standard radiographs. The authors describe an articular sagittal index (ASI) of the distal radius and provide reference values from a study of 100 healthy volunteers. An increase of the ASI index suggests a displaced articular distal radius fracture with possible impaction."}
{"id": "19708624", "title": "A rare wrist injury: simultaneous fractures of the hamate body and scaphoid waist.", "content": "A rare wrist injury: simultaneous fractures of the hamate body and scaphoid waist. Hamate fractures, which are classified as fractures of the body or the hook, are rare, representing only 2% to 4% of carpal fractures. Hamate body fractures can occur as isolated injuries, but in a high-energy trauma, associated carpal bone fractures or carpal disruption can be seen. Hamate fractures can be easily underdiagnosed. Pain in the ulnar side of the palm and swelling of the wrist after a wrist injury should alert the physician. Anteroposterior and lateral radiographs of the wrist may not always be adequate for the diagnosis. Computed tomography should be used to explain the pain in the wrist and to investigate any associating osseous pathologies. This article describes a case of a rare wrist injury: a fracture of the hamate body and a simultaneous fracture of the scaphoid waist treated nonoperatively. To our knowledge, there is only 1 case report in the literature in which the fracture of the hamate body accompanies the fracture of the distal pole of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "19695798", "title": "A multilobed osteochondroma of the hamate: case report.", "content": "A multilobed osteochondroma of the hamate: case report. Osteochondromas arising from the carpal bones are unusual, and when they occur they usually arise from the scaphoid. We report a case of a single, multilobed osteochondroma arising from the hamate that was successfully excised, with no evidence of recurrence at 4-year follow-up."}
{"id": "19687072", "title": "Cost-effectiveness of MRI in managing suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Cost-effectiveness of MRI in managing suspected scaphoid fractures. In a cost-effectiveness study, we compared a treatment algorithm using repeated radiological examination with an algorithm using subacute MRI in patients with clinical signs of scaphoid fracture but normal initial radiography. Twenty-seven patients were included in both groups, and MRI reduced the immobilisation time from 20 days (range, 6-54) to 4 days (range, 1-19) and sick leave from 27 days (1-92) to 11 days (0-28). Use of MRI increased hospital costs by 151 euro (P<0.05), but reduced non-hospital costs by 2869 euro (P<0.05), making MRI cost-effective in the treatment of suspected scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "19675028", "title": "Tendon entrapment in distal radius fractures.", "content": "Tendon entrapment in distal radius fractures. We retrospectively defined the rate and clinical features of tendon entrapment in 693 consecutive patients with 701 distal radius fractures treated in a single hospital. Eight extensor tendons and one flexor tendon were entrapped. All fractures with extensor tendon entrapment were palmarly displaced (Smith type) or epiphyseal. Flexor tendon entrapment was seen in dorsally angulated (Colles type) epiphyseal fracture. The rate of tendon entrapment in acute distal radius fractures was 1.3%. Extensor tendon entrapment in palmarly displaced fractures is more common."}
{"id": "19668095", "title": "Detection of occult wrist fractures by quantitative radioscintigraphy: a prospective study on selected patients.", "content": "Detection of occult wrist fractures by quantitative radioscintigraphy: a prospective study on selected patients. To determine the value of quantitative radioscintigraphy (QRS) in the diagnosis of wrist trauma occult fractures. Because of the risk of non-union, the diagnosis of wrist fractures, including scaphoid fractures, is essential but remains difficult despite many imaging modalities. The aim of the study was to assess the benefits of QRS in the diagnosis of occult post-trauma wrist fractures. This prospective study included all patients presenting at the orthopaedic department at Brest University Hospital for wrist pain after trauma with initial normal plain radiographs. Patients with normal radiographs but strongly suspected of fracture underwent QRS consisting of three-phase bone scintigraphy with quantitative analysis. When a fracture was suspected the radiograph and scintigraphy were fused to precisely locate the fracture if the index was higher than 2. If the index was lower than 1.9, fracture was excluded. Between these two indices, other investigations, such as magnetic resonance imaging, were performed. All patients were followed for at least 3 months and reviewed by the same surgeon. Patients underwent a physical examination and possibly other investigations. From April 2006 to July 2008, 87 patients were enrolled (34 women, 53 men; median age 29 years; range, 15-87 years). Among the 46 pathologic bone scintigrams, 55 occult fractures were highlighted. At follow-up, none presented non-union. One had an undetermined QRS. Among the 40 negative results for QRS at follow-up, only one had a non-union. Sensitivity and negative predictive value were 97 and 98%, respectively for carpal fractures. This study highlights the benefit of QRS, which allows the detection of most occult carpal fractures and reduces the risks of complications such as pseudoarthritis."}
{"id": "19662404", "title": "Age dependent T2 changes of bone marrow in pediatric wrist MRI.", "content": "Age dependent T2 changes of bone marrow in pediatric wrist MRI. Hyperintensity of the bone marrow on fluid-sensitive sequences can be seen on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during childhood, even in the absence of bone pathology. They can be related to hematopoietic marrow, normal and abnormal bone remodeling. We sought to investigate whether hyper intensity of the bone marrow on MRI of the wrist is age-dependent and to evaluate if this signal follows a consistent age-related pattern. Thirty-one wrist 1.5 T MR images of children (7-18 years) without suspected bone pathology were evaluated for foci of hyperintense bone marrow seen on fluid-sensitive coronal sequences using a scale of 1-3. Correlation of frequency, location and intensity of these foci with age was obtained. Results were analyzed for distribution in single bones and in the following regions: distal forearm, first/second carpal rows, and metacarpal bases. A total of 448 bones were evaluated. Eighty-eight out of 448 (21 out of 31 wrists) showed hyperintense bone marrow seen on fluid-sensitive sequences. The distribution was: radius in 19, ulna in 19, first metacarpal base in 11, scaphoid in 9, lunate in 6, pisiform in 6, and fifth metacarpal base in 1. The involvement of the first and second carpal rows and the metacarpal bases was almost similar (13, 12, and 12 respectively). In the distal forearm, the intensity was similar to or higher than that in the wrist (2.2 vs. 2.0). Frequency decreased with age (100% at 7-9 and 25% at 16-18 years). Foci of hyperintense bone marrow seen on fluid-sensitive sequences can be seen on MRI of the wrist during childhood even without apparent symptoms. It shows a consistent pattern with maturation: frequency and intensity decrease and there is distal-to-proximal resolution. This may be a normal finding that may represent normal bone remodeling or decreasing hematopoietic marrow and should not be confused with pathological bone marrow edema."}
{"id": "19643337", "title": "Carpal fractures in athletes excluding the scaphoid.", "content": "Carpal fractures in athletes excluding the scaphoid. A wide range of hand and wrist injuries occur in today's recreational and elite athletes and account for 3% to 9% of all sports injuries. The onus is on the physician to discriminate between injuries that can be managed with an early return to sport, and those injuries that place the athlete at risk of further injury if they are not managed aggressively from the outset. The physician and the athlete must understand the balance between safe, early return to sport, and prompt surgical treatment that prevents late disability."}
{"id": "19643336", "title": "Arthroscopic management of scaphoid fractures in athletes.", "content": "Arthroscopic management of scaphoid fractures in athletes. Fractures of the scaphoid are a common athletic injury. In this article the indications and treatment strategy for arthroscopic management of scaphoid fractures and nonunions in athletes are reviewed. Various arthroscopic assisted and percutaneous techniques for the fixation of fractures of the scaphoid are discussed, including the volar and dorsal percutaneous approaches, and arthroscopic reduction by the Geissler technique. In general, these techniques include a small amount of wrist arthroscopy and a significant amount of fluoroscopy."}
{"id": "19639802", "title": "Scaphoid fracture: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture: diagnosis and management. Nurses working in first-contact settings commonly assess and manage patients with suspected or actual injury to the scaphoid bone. In this article, lack of consensus on the assessment of such injuries, and on which treatment regimen and imaging techniques should be used, is discussed. The importance of being aware of the risk of avascular necrosis of the bone after injury is also emphasised."}
{"id": "19638854", "title": "High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging of triangular fibrocartilage complex lesions in acute wrist trauma: image quality at different field strengths.", "content": "High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging of triangular fibrocartilage complex lesions in acute wrist trauma: image quality at different field strengths. The purposes of this study were to assess the diagnostic capacity of a new high-resolution imaging protocol for the wrist and triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) lesions at 3.0 T and to compare it with our established 1.5-T protocol. Twenty-one patients with an acute wrist trauma were examined at a 3.0-T imaging system and agreed to undergo an additional examination at 1.5 T. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed with 1.5-T (standard wrist coil) and 3.0-T (purpose-build phased-array coil) imaging system, using coronal T1-weighted turbo-spin-echo, proton density-weighted fat-saturated, and coronal and axial contrast-enhanced T1-weighted gradient-echo fat-saturated sequences, with reduced voxel size from 0.50 x 0.50 x 3.0 mm (1.5 T) to 0.20 x 0.20 x 1.5 mm (3.0 T). For qualitative analysis, 2 observers assessed in consensus delineation, image quality, and artifacts in anatomical landmarks (cartilage, TFCC, and TFCC lesion) and ranked them on a 5-point scale from 1 (nondiagnostic) to 5 (optimal). For quantitative analysis, measurements of the contrast-to-noise ratio were obtained between disk and surrounding tissue. All parts of the TFCC and TFCC lesions (n = 14) were seen significantly better at 3.0 T (mean [SD], 4.6 [0.5] vs 2.6 [1.2], P < 0.0001), with higher ranked overall image quality. In 3 cases, TFCC lesions were seen only at 3.0 T. Proton density-weighted fat-saturated sequence had significantly more artifacts at 3.0 T (2.5 [0.6] vs 1.9 [0.5], P < 0.001) in contrast to T1 sequences. Quantitative evaluation showed significantly higher contrast-to-noise ratio for 3.0 T (5.0 [1.1] vs 3.9 [0.9], P < 0.0001). Depiction of anatomy and pathology of the TFCC benefits significantly from 3.0-T imaging when higher signal-to-noise ratio is invested into improved spatial resolution. Especially small lesions of the disk were detected only or better at 3.0 T."}
{"id": "19627884", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes. To characterize abnormalities on magnetic resonance images (MRI) in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes to better define the range of \"normal\" findings in this population. Cohort study. Academic medical center. Division IA collegiate volleyball players (n=12), swimmers (n=6), and gymnasts (n=15) with no history of injury or pain and normal physical examination results. None. Grade of severity of MRI changes of the shoulder and wrist joints. A 3- to 4-year follow-up questionnaire was administered to determine the clinical significance of the asymptomatic findings. All athletes demonstrated at least mild imaging abnormalities in the joints evaluated. Shoulder: Volleyball players had moderate and severe changes primarily in the labrum (50% moderate, 8% severe), rotator cuff (25% moderate, 17% severe), bony structures (33% moderate), and tendon/muscle (25% moderate, 8% severe). Swimmers had moderate changes primarily in the labrum (83% moderate) and ligament (67% moderate). Wrist: All gymnasts had changes in the wrist ligaments (40% mild, 60% moderate), tendons (53% mild, 47% moderate), and cartilage (60% mild, 33% moderate, 7% severe). Most gymnasts exhibited bony changes (20% normal, 47% mild, 26% moderate, 7% severe), the presence of cysts/fluid collections (80%), and carpal tunnel changes (53%). Swimmers had no wrist abnormalities. At follow-up interview, only 1 swimmer and 1 volleyball player reported shoulder problems during the study. Additionally, only 1 gymnast reported a wrist injury during their career. Asymptomatic elite athletes demonstrate MRI changes of the shoulder (swimmers and volleyball players) and wrist (gymnasts) similar to those associated with abnormalities for which medical treatment and sometimes surgery are advised. Given the somewhat high frequency of these asymptomatic findings, care must be taken to correlate clinical history and physical examination with MRI findings in these patients with symptoms."}
{"id": "19603596", "title": "Management of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures: a survey of current practice in Israel.", "content": "Management of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures: a survey of current practice in Israel. Fracture of the scaphoid is the most common fracture of a carpal bone. Nevertheless, the diagnosis of SF might be challenging. Plain X-rays that fail to demonstrate a fracture line while clinical findings suggest the existence of such a fracture is not uncommon. Currently there is no consensus in the literature as to how a clinically suspected SF should be diagnosed, immobilized and treated. To assess the current status of diagnosis and treatment of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures in Israeli emergency departments. We conducted a telephonic survey among orthopedic surgeons working in Israeli EDs as to their approach to the diagnosis and treatment of occult SF. A total of 42 orthopedic surgeons in 6 hospital EDs participated in the survey. They reported performing a mean of 2.45 +/- 0.85 clinical tests, with tenderness over the snuffbox area being the sign most commonly used. A mean of 4.38 +/- 0.76 X-ray views were ordered for patients with a clinically suspected SF. The most common combination included posterior-anterior, lateral, semipronated and semisupinated oblique views. All participating surgeons reported immobilizing the wrists of patients with occult fractures in a thumb spica cast based on their clinical findings. Upon discharge from the ED patients were advised to have another diagnostic examination as follows: 29 (69%) repeated X-rays series, 18 (43%) were referred to bone scintigraphy and 2 (5%) to computed tomography; none were referred to magnetic resonance imaging. No consensus was found among Israeli orthopedic surgeons working in EDs regarding the right algorithm for assessment of clinically suspected SF. There is a need for better guidelines to uniformly dictate the order and set of tests to be used in the assessment of occult fractures."}
{"id": "19585088", "title": "[Therapy principles of distal fractures of the forearm in childhood].", "content": "[Therapy principles of distal fractures of the forearm in childhood]. Fractures of the forearm in children represent one of the most frequent injuries. Most are monotraumatic occurring during sport or leisure activities. Diagnosis can be made by conventional X-ray examination in 2 planes. Distal forearm fractures are classified into epiphyseolysis and epiphyseal fractures, metaphyseal greenstick and buckle fractures, complete distal radius and forearm fractures as well as Galeazzi lesions. The vast majority of cases without relevant dislocation can be treated with immobilization employing a cast. The remaining fractures have to be repositioned and restored depending on age and degree of dislocation.The state of the art in surgical therapy is the Kirschner wire osteosynthesis after closed reduction. Especially meta-diaphyseal fractures can alternatively be stabilized with plate osteosynthesis or external fixation. Following these therapeutic principles, prognosis is excellent and most of the injuries heal without any functional impairment."}
{"id": "19524914", "title": "Examination tests predictive of bone injury in patients with clinically suspected occult scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Examination tests predictive of bone injury in patients with clinically suspected occult scaphoid fracture. This study aims to identify the physical examination tests most indicative of bone injury in patients with clinically suspected occult scaphoid fractures. Ten physical examination manoeuvres were performed on 41 patients with a history of a fall on an outstretched hand and tenderness at the anatomical snuffbox and scaphoid tubercle without a radiographically visible fracture line. The results of wrist examination and subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were recorded. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, accuracy and likelihood ratio of the physical examinations were calculated for the patients who had bone injury confirmed by MRI. The distribution of MRI-confirmed conditions was as follows: 13 cases-no bone involvement; 12 cases-scaphoid fractures; 9 cases-fissures at the distal end of the radius; 6 cases-bone-bruise and 1 case-triquetral fracture. The symptoms most indicative of bone injuries were 'pain during pinching by the thumb and index fingers' and 'pain during pronation of the forearm'. The two above-mentioned manoeuvres were most indicative of bone injury in patients with clinically suspected occult scaphoid fracture. These examinations may reduce the number of unnecessary MRI examinations."}
{"id": "19522693", "title": "Differential diagnosis in a professional basketball player with foot pain: is it an avulsion fracture or an os supranaviculare?", "content": "Differential diagnosis in a professional basketball player with foot pain: is it an avulsion fracture or an os supranaviculare? The os supranaviculare is an accessory bone located on the dorsal aspect of the talonavicular joint close to the midpoint. This rare incidental skeletal variant has an estimated prevalence of 1%. It may rarely become symptomatic and should not be confused with cortical avulsion fractures of navicular or talar head. We present the case of a 25-year-old professional basketball player with pain on the dorsum of his right foot after twisting his ankle during a regular season match. Magnetic resonance imaging findings of the player's foot represented a flake of bone on the superior part of the talar head. The differential diagnosis and clinical outcome of this unusual case are briefly discussed."}
{"id": "19501802", "title": "Evaluation and treatment of navicular stress fractures, including nonunions, revision surgery, and persistent pain after treatment.", "content": "Evaluation and treatment of navicular stress fractures, including nonunions, revision surgery, and persistent pain after treatment. Despite increased awareness of stress fractures of the tarsal navicular and a heightened index of suspicion by those physicians evaluating sports related foot pain, these injuries remain difficult to diagnose. There is often a considerable delay in the diagnosis because of its subtle and often vague clinical presentation. Accompanying a thorough history and physical, the authors recommend plain radiographs of the foot and ankle, followed by a CT scan to fully characterize any fracture of the navicular and to rule out other etiologies of foot pain. If a CT scan is negative, and a high clinical suspicion persists, an MRI scan is then obtained to rule out a stress reaction. While often successful, non-operative treatment of navicular stress fractures is prolonged and often frustrating to the competitive athlete; surgical intervention for appropriately selected patients can result in full symptom resolution and a return to the desired level of athletic participation."}
{"id": "19495720", "title": "[Radiological procedures in the traumatised wrist].", "content": "[Radiological procedures in the traumatised wrist]. Injuries of the wrist are difficult to diagnose because of the complex and narrow anatomic structures. On the basis of precise clinical examination, X-rays, CT and MRI are valuable additional tools that can be used. In the case of bone injury, spiral computer tomography with multiplanar reformatting is currently the method of choice. MRI is indicated for the identification of soft tissue or ligamentous injury and avital fragments or necrosis. Other diagnostic tools for the wrist are currently of minor importance. Technical and methodological innovations allow ever better visualisation and classification of lesions, as well as their extent, thus enabling more targeted therapy. However, prerequisites of effective use include differential assessment and precise knowledge of the procedures."}
{"id": "19446965", "title": "Using computed tomography to assist with diagnosis of avascular necrosis complicating chronic scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Using computed tomography to assist with diagnosis of avascular necrosis complicating chronic scaphoid nonunion. The primary aim of our study was to investigate use of long axis computed tomography (CT) in predicting avascular necrosis of the proximal pole of the scaphoid and subsequent fracture nonunion after internal fixation. In addition, we describe a new technique of measuring the position of a scaphoid fracture and provide data on its reproducibility. Thirty-one patients operated on by the senior author for delayed union or nonunion of scaphoid fracture were included. Preoperative CT scans were independently assessed for increased radiodensity of the proximal pole, converging trabeculae, degree of deformity, comminution, and fracture position. Intraoperative biopsies of the proximal pole were obtained and histologically assessed for evidence of avascular necrosis. The radiologic variables were statistically compared with the histologic findings. The presence of avascular necrosis was also compared with postoperative union status, identified on longitudinal CT scans. Preoperative CT features that statistically correlated with histologic evidence of avascular necrosis were increased radiodensity of the proximal pole and the absence of any converging trabeculae between the fracture fragments. The radiologic changes of avascular necrosis and the histologic confirmation of avascular necrosis were associated with persistent nonunion. Preoperative longitudinal CT of scaphoid nonunion is of great value in identifying avascular necrosis and predicting subsequent fracture union. If avascular necrosis is suspected based on preoperative CT, management options include vascularized bone grafts and bone morphogenic protein for younger patients and limited wrist arthrodesis for older patients. Diagnostic II."}
{"id": "19410996", "title": "Early breakage of a titanium volar locking plate for fixation of a distal radius fracture: case report.", "content": "Early breakage of a titanium volar locking plate for fixation of a distal radius fracture: case report. This report presents a case demonstrating the early breakage of a titanium volar locking plate implanted for internal fixation of a dorsally displaced distal radius fracture in which the dorsal cortex was severely comminuted. Careful selection of the proper plate and appropriate surgical technique and postoperative management are necessary to avoid this complication."}
{"id": "19369308", "title": "Stress fracture of the hook of the hamate as a result of intensive climbing.", "content": "Stress fracture of the hook of the hamate as a result of intensive climbing."}
{"id": "19356346", "title": "Scaphoid fracture with ipsilateral fracture dislocation of the metacarpals: a rare fracture pattern.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture with ipsilateral fracture dislocation of the metacarpals: a rare fracture pattern. Scaphoid fracture with ipsilateral metacarpal fracture dislocation is very rare. A unique case of this injury is reported. It is important to be aware of this fracture pattern so that appropriate evaluation and treatment can be instituted. Thorough clinical and radiographic examination at the initial presentation of the patient is the key to identify uncommon combination of injuries."}
{"id": "19345870", "title": "A computational approach to the \"optimal\" screw axis location and orientation in the scaphoid bone.", "content": "A computational approach to the \"optimal\" screw axis location and orientation in the scaphoid bone. The development of small cannulated screws permitted minimally invasive percutaneous fixation of acute scaphoid fractures. There are known mechanical advantages to increased screw length and central screw placement, as well as documented deleterious effects of screw malposition, including articular protrusion, proximal pole fracture, and nonunion. The purpose of this study was to compare 2 methods of calculating a screw axis accessible via a volar surgical approach. To prevent screw protrusion through the surface of the scaphoid, we required the central screw axis to be contained completely within a \"safe zone,\" defined as a 3-dimensional region located a fixed distance from the inner cortical surface. Safe zones were calculated based on computed tomography-generated models of the right scaphoid from 10 healthy subjects. Two methods for screw axis calculation were compared: (1) maximum screw length (MSL) within the safe zone and (2) a cylinder best-fit (CYL) to the safe zone. The volar approach was defined as percutaneous screw placement through the scaphoid tubercle without violation of the trapezium. Resultant screw axes were compared between the 2 methods for volar accessibility, screw length, and location of the screw axis. The MSL axes were completely accessible without violating the trapezium in all but 2 subjects. The average MSL axes were 11% longer than the CYL axes and passed significantly closer to the scaphoid tubercle than did the CYL axes (1.8 mm vs 6.4 mm). The MSL axes passed significantly farther (1.6 mm) from the bone centroid than did the CYL axes (0.4 mm). All 10 MSL axes were located in the central one-third of the proximal pole. Without violation of the trapezium, MSL axis can be attained via the volar percutaneous approach to the scaphoid. Using this approach, the ideal starting point for maximal screw length was located 1.7 mm dorsal and 0.2 mm radial to the apex of the scaphoid tubercle."}
{"id": "19337804", "title": "Scaphoid nonunion and distal fragment resection: analysis with three-dimensional rigid body spring model.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunion and distal fragment resection: analysis with three-dimensional rigid body spring model. Distal fragment resection is one of the salvage procedures for scaphoid nonunion with osteoarthritis. Despite being reported as a simple procedure with favorable midterm outcomes, further arthritic changes remain a concern in the long term. Scaphoid waist fracture is classified into volar or dorsal types according to the displacement pattern, but the indications for distal fragment resection have never been discussed for these fracture types. We reconstructed a normal wrist model from computed tomography images and performed theoretical analysis utilizing a three-dimensional rigid body spring model. Two types of scaphoid fracture nonunion followed by distal fragment resection were simulated. With volar-type nonunion, the force transmission ratio of the radiolunate joint increased, and the pressure concentration was observed in the dorsal part of the scaphoid fossa and volar part of the lunate fossa of the radius; no deterioration was seen in the midcarpal joint. In the distal fragment resection simulation for volar-type nonunion, pressure concentrations of the radiocarpal joint resolved. With dorsal-type nonunion, force transmission ratio in the radiocarpal joint resembled that of the normal joint model. Pressure concentrations were observed in the dorsoulnar part of the scaphoid fossa and radial styloid. The pressure concentration in the dorsoulnar part of the scaphoid fossa disappeared in the resection model, whereas the concentration in the radial styloid remained. In the midcarpal joint, pressure was concentrated around the capitate head in the nonunion model and became aggravated in the resection model. With volar-type scaphoid nonunion, distal fragment resection seems to represent a reasonable treatment option. With dorsal-type nonunion, however, pressure concentration around the capitate head was aggravated with the simulated distal fragment resection, indicating a potential risk of worsening any preexisting lunocapitate arthritis."}
{"id": "19337343", "title": "[MR examination of carpal fractures].", "content": "[MR examination of carpal fractures]."}
{"id": "19322751", "title": "[The scaphocapitate fracture syndrome (Fenton)].", "content": "[The scaphocapitate fracture syndrome (Fenton)]. The scaphocapitate fracture syndrome as a greater arc injury is a special form of the perilunate fracture dislocation. It is a combination of fractures of the scaphoid and capitate bones. This severe injury of the carpus is rare and therefore difficult to diagnose. We report the case of a 22-year-old handball player, who fell on the outstretched hand with the wrist in extension. Open reduction was performed via a dorsal approach and both fractures were treated operatively with Herbert screws. After three months the patient was able to play handball again with a good functional result."}
{"id": "19322749", "title": "[Isolated fractures of the capitate: treatment of delayed union].", "content": "[Isolated fractures of the capitate: treatment of delayed union]. Delayed and non-union of isolated fractures of the capitate are rare injuries. Initial plain radiographs do not always show the fractures. Especially fractures through the neck of the capitate can lead to delayed union. We report on a patient with persistent localised pain over the capitate 5 months after a fall on the hand. The CT examination showed a delayed union of the capitate, which was treated with an iliac cancellous bone graft and screw osteosynthesis. Bone healing was verified 3 months after operation. Operative therapy is recommended in cases of delayed union or non-union of the capitate."}
{"id": "19258134", "title": "Outcome after vascularized bone grafting of scaphoid nonunions with avascular necrosis.", "content": "Outcome after vascularized bone grafting of scaphoid nonunions with avascular necrosis. Vascularized bone grafting has been proposed as a treatment for scaphoid nonunions with avascular necrosis of the proximal pole. The purpose of this investigation is to report the results of vascularized bone graft and internal fixation for established scaphoid nonunions with proximal pole avascular necrosis as measured by validated outcome instruments. From 1996 to 2004, 30 consecutive patients with established scaphoid nonunion, proximal pole avascular necrosis, and no prior surgery were treated with open reduction and internal fixation in addition to a vascularized bone graft based on 1,2 intercompartmental supraretinacular artery. A total of 19 patients had nonunions of the scaphoid waist and 11 had nonunions of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. Preoperative and postoperative evaluation included measurement of clinical (grip strength and range of motion), radiographic (scapholunate angle, scaphoid height-to-length ratio, and radioscaphoid arthritis), function (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire) and satisfaction parameters. We recorded union and return to activity and analyzed data both in the aggregate and stratified by nonunion location. Union rate was 28 of 30 (93%) and time to union was 5.1 months (+/-2.4). Significant improvements were found for grip strength, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score, satisfaction score, and scaphoid height-to-length ratio (p < .01). No significant difference was found for composite wrist range of motion. Two patients experienced complications and required a second procedure to achieve union. A total of 28 of 30 (93%) of patients returned to work or sports activity at their preinjury level. The results of this investigation support the use of a vascularized bone graft for the treatment of scaphoid nonunions with avascular necrosis of the proximal pole."}
{"id": "19235672", "title": "Ultrasonographic study of wrist ligaments: review and new perspectives.", "content": "Ultrasonographic study of wrist ligaments: review and new perspectives. Imaging strategy for wrist injury usually begins with standard radiographs. When a ligamentous disorder is suspected clinically, the next step is arthrographic computed tomography or arthrographic magnetic resonance imaging. When the diagnosis remains unclear, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the preferred examination. Ultrasonography is usually used to assess structures like tendons and bone surface, but thanks to the performances of high-frequency transducers, it can also enable visualization of the main ligaments of the wrist. Ultrasonography could thus replace MRI because of its lower cost, as recently reported in the literature. However, a good knowledge of normal and pathological wrist anatomy is required to avoid false negatives. Wrist ligaments comprise interosseous and capsular ligaments as well as the triangular fibrocartilaginous complex. All these ligaments may be involved in carpal instability. Clinical examination has a major role to play in helping radiologists orient their procedures. A few studies have reported that ultrasonography of the triangular fibrocartilaginous complex is reliable compared with arthrography or MRI, but most of these studies were limited to the radioulnar ligaments. In this article we propose a more extensive protocol."}
{"id": "19226035", "title": "Evaluating bone union of distal radius fractures by measuring impedance values.", "content": "Evaluating bone union of distal radius fractures by measuring impedance values. The measurement of impedance is a noninvasive and simple quantitative technique for evaluation of fracture healing. Fractures of the distal radius are the most common long bone fractures, accounting for approximately 20% to 25% of all acute fractures. External fixators have been applied clinically to treat unstable distal radius fractures. The evaluation of radiological findings and clinical signs are current standard methods and are effective in assessing fracture union of the distal radius, but these methods are dependent on subjective elements. For the objective methods, previous studies have shown that measurement of bone mineral density, ultrasound, quantitative computed tomography, and acoustic emission are useful in evaluating bone union. However, due to the complexity and high radiation dose associated with these methods, are seldom used clinically. This study was undertaken to examine the correlation between bone union and impedance at the site of digital radius fractures treated with an external fixator, using an alternating current electrical stimulator and a digital oscilloscope."}
{"id": "19194702", "title": "Survey of the initial management and imaging protocols for occult scaphoid fractures in UK hospitals.", "content": "Survey of the initial management and imaging protocols for occult scaphoid fractures in UK hospitals. The aim of this research was to survey how occult fractures of the scaphoid bone are both imaged and managed initially. A total of 832 questionnaires were sent via e-mail to active associate members of the British Orthopaedic Association. Included was a series of questions regarding the timing of initial and subsequent orthopaedic review of this group of patients and the use of serial radiographs and second-line imaging techniques. Nearly half of the UK's acute NHS trusts were represented (45%). The response rate was 16% (130 out of 832). Only 16% of respondents were aware of a local imaging protocol for the investigation of suspected fractures of the scaphoid. Ninety-four percent of respondents performed a second radiograph at first fracture clinic review. Fifty-eight percent used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a second-line investigation; with computed tomography scan and radionuclide isotope bone scan being performed by 26% and 16% respondents, respectively. The survey revealed a wide variation in the management of occult fractures of the scaphoid. MRI has been shown to be both sensitive and specific in diagnosing occult carpal bone fractures. There is a need to standardise the management of these injuries to ensure early diagnosis and limit unnecessary wrist immobilisation."}
{"id": "19180162", "title": "[Treatment of carpal fractures].", "content": "[Treatment of carpal fractures]. The aim of this study was to elucidate the incidence and treatment of patients with carpal bone fractures at a county hospital in Norway. 320 patients with 331 carpal bone fractures treated at the The Hospital of Haugesund, Norway are included in this study. Information was gathered from patient records. 277 patients had scafoid fractures and ultimately 95.8 % healed. 243 patients with a scafoid fracture were immediately treated with plaster-immobilization or operatively because of major dislocation and 89 % healed. The patients with a non-union underwent surgery and ultimately 98.7 % healed in this group. 34 patients suffered delayed treatment and following immobilization and operative treatment healing ensued in only 75 % of these fractures. Inadequate or delayed treatment resulted in a significantly higher rate of non-union and surgery. All 54 non-scafoid fractures healed satisfactory and only one was operated. 27 patients had fractures of the triquetrum; fractures of the six remaining carpal bones were rare. The results of primary plaster immobilisation and primary operative treatment were considered satisfactory. Our results compare well with other reports."}
{"id": "19180160", "title": "[Cast immobilisation for suspected scaphoid fractures].", "content": "[Cast immobilisation for suspected scaphoid fractures]. Patients with suspected scaphoid fractures usually have their arm immobilised in a cast for two weeks, even in the absence of radiographic signs of fracture. After two weeks a new radiographic examination is performed. Our objective was to assess the extent of unnecessary cast immobilisation and to describe existing diagnostic practice in our hospital. We performed a retrospective study to identify all patients treated for suspected scaphoid fracture in our hospital in the period 2001 - 2006. The extent of unnecessary immobilisation and the use of diagnostic procedures were assessed by systematic review of patients' medical records. 45 of 194 patients treated as if they had a scaphoid fracture were diagnosed with a fracture; 29 by plain radiographs at the first consultation and 16 at later consultations (nine by plain radiographs after two weeks, three by MRI after two weeks and four by repeated clinical assessments for maximum 10 weeks). 89 patients of working age and without scaphoid fracture were treated with cast immobilisation for 187 weeks in total. Only 23 % of patients treated with cast immobilisation for two weeks were ultimately diagnosed with scaphoid fracture. The extent of unnecessary cast immobilisation indicates a need to use better diagnostic tools early after the injury."}
{"id": "19180159", "title": "[Carpal fractures--time for new practice!].", "content": "[Carpal fractures--time for new practice!]."}
{"id": "19152051", "title": "Bone micro-architecture and determinants of strength in the radius and tibia: age-related changes in a population-based study of normal adults measured with high-resolution pQCT.", "content": "Bone micro-architecture and determinants of strength in the radius and tibia: age-related changes in a population-based study of normal adults measured with high-resolution pQCT. We recruited a population-based sample of 58 males and 74 females aged 20-79 from a primary care medical practice to provide normative and descriptive data for high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) parameters. Important effects of ageing and contrasts in the effects of sex on the micro-architecture and strength of upper and lower limb bones were revealed. The advent of high-resolution pQCT scanners has permitted non-invasive assessment of structural data on cortical and trabecular bone. We investigated age-related changes in pQCT and finite element (FE) modelling parameters at the distal radius and distal tibia in a population-based cross-sectional study of 58 males and 74 females aged 20-79 years. Linear regression models including quadratic terms for age were used for inference. Age-related changes and sex differences were generally similar for pQCT parameters at the radius and tibia. At each site, mean values for bone density, cortical thickness and trabecular micro-architecture (number, separation and thickness) were lower (trabecular separation higher) in women than men. Changes with age were most apparent for bone density and cortical thickness, which declined with age, in contrast to trabecular micro-architecture parameters which were not significantly associated with age (p > 0.05) in either sex. Cortical bone density and thickness declined faster in women than men after age 50 and trabecular bone density was consistently lower in women. FE-analysis predicted failure load decreased with age and percentage of load carried by trabecular bone increased (p < 0.05). These data show contrasts in the effects of sex on the micro-architecture and strength of upper and lower limb bones with ageing. The faster decline in cortical bone thickness and density in women than men after age 50 and consistently lower trabecular bone density in women have implications for the excess risks of wrist and hip fractures in women."}
{"id": "19129358", "title": "The clinical outcome of scaphoid fracture malunion at 1 year.", "content": "The clinical outcome of scaphoid fracture malunion at 1 year. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of malunion of scaphoid fractures on the clinical outcome at 1 year. Forty-two consecutive patients with united scaphoid waist fractures which had been treated non-operatively underwent longitudinal CT scans to confirm union and assess malunion at 12 to 18 weeks after injury. A blind clinical assessment was made and the Patient Evaluation Measure (PEM) and DASH questionnaires were completed by all the patients 1 year after injury. The group consisted of 38 men and four women with a mean age of 31 years at the time of injury. Correlation analysis revealed no significant relationships between any of the outcome measures (range of motion, grip strength and PEM and DASH scores) and any of the three measures of malunion (height-to-length ratio, the dorsal cortical angle and the lateral intra-scaphoid angle)."}
{"id": "19101889", "title": "[Diagnostic value of unspecific requested and implemented MRI for detecting intracarpal lesions, compared to arthroscopic findings at 217 patients].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of unspecific requested and implemented MRI for detecting intracarpal lesions, compared to arthroscopic findings at 217 patients]. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic value of MRI for detecting intracarpal lesions in clinical routine. In a retrospective study, we reviewed the charts of 506 patients who had undergone wrist arthroscopy in our department between May 1998 and November 2002. Out of 506 patients 217 had an MRI. The MRI was performed at 31 different radiology facilities using a number of techniques. The MRI results were compared with the arthroscopic findings, taking the arthroscopic results as a \"gold standard\" (sensitivity = SEN, specificity = SPE, positive predictive value = PPV, negative predictive value = NPV, accuracy = ACC). The following results were found: For tears of the scapholunate ligament the avalues are SEN 18.5 %, SPE 95 %, PPV 71 %, NPV 66 %, ACC66 %. Not one of 16 tears of the lunotriquetral ligament was found by MRI. In our data we found a low sensitivity for unspecific requested and implemented MRI for detecting intracarpal lesions. Therefore the indication for MRI should only be made after experienced hand surgeons have examined the wrist. In our opinion, only direct MR-arthrography is equal to arthroscopy, so that only an experienced radiologist who is familiar with this technique should perform the MRI diagnostics of the hand."}
{"id": "19085822", "title": "[Free microvascular transfer of segmental corticocancellous femur for treatment of avascular scaphoid necrosis].", "content": "[Free microvascular transfer of segmental corticocancellous femur for treatment of avascular scaphoid necrosis]. Successful treatment of scaphoid non-union with avascular necrosis of the proximal poles and humpback deformity with carpal collapse is one of the main problems in reconstructive hand surgery. Vascularised bone transfer is one of the most successful techniques for treating these problems. 15 patients with avascular necrosis and non-union of the scaphoid were treated by a microvascular reanastomosed corticocancellous transplant from the distal medial femur. In all patients the success of the microvascular bone transfer was examined by MRI and conventional radiographs immediately, 6 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. The transplant vitality, signs of reunion and carpal configuration were registered. Furthermore, the Mayo wrist score was employed for clinical evaluation. All transplants remained vital during the follow-up period of one year. Pseudoarthrosis was treated successfully in every case. In 14 cases there was a significant increase of the Mayo wrist score and in one case there was no difference before and after surgery. The microvascular transfer of corticocancellous femur resulted in a high rate of complete healing of scaphoid pseudoarthrosis and correction of the carpal relation."}
{"id": "19052930", "title": "Two-dimensional fusion imaging of planar bone scintigraphy and radiographs in patients with clinical scaphoid fracture: an imaging study.", "content": "Two-dimensional fusion imaging of planar bone scintigraphy and radiographs in patients with clinical scaphoid fracture: an imaging study. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is now considered the gold standard in second-line imaging of patients with suspected scaphoid fracture and negative radiographs, bone scintigraphy can be used in patients with pacemakers, metallic implants, or other contraindications to MRI. Bone scintigraphy is highly sensitive for the detection of fractures, but exact localization of scintigraphic lesions may be difficult and can negatively affect diagnostic accuracy. To investigate the influence of image fusion of planar bone scintigraphy and radiographs on image interpretation in patients with suspected scaphoid fracture. In 24 consecutive patients with suspected scaphoid fracture, a standard planar bone scintigraphy of both hands was supplemented with fusion imaging of the injured wrist. Standard and fusion images were evaluated independently by three experienced nuclear medicine physicians. In addition to the diagnosis, the degree of diagnostic confidence was scored in each case. The addition of fusion images changed the interpretation of each of the three observers in seven, four, and two cases, respectively, reducing the number of positive interpretations of two of the observers from 11 and nine cases to six and seven cases, respectively. The degree of diagnostic confidence increased significantly in two observers, and interobserver agreement increased in all three pairs of observers from 0.83, 0.57, and 0.73 to 0.89, 0.8, and 0.9, respectively. Image fusion of planar bone scintigrams and radiographs has a significant influence on image interpretation and increases both diagnostic confidence and interobserver agreement."}
{"id": "19042145", "title": "[Flexor carpi radialis tendon rupture following percutaneous osteosynthesis of the scaphoid: a case report].", "content": "[Flexor carpi radialis tendon rupture following percutaneous osteosynthesis of the scaphoid: a case report]. We present a rare complication of percutaneous osteosynthesis of a scaphoid fracture. A 19-year-old professional handballer presented with a fracture of the scaphoid classified B2 according to the Herbert classification: the fracture was fixed with a percutaneous screw. The fracture was united by six weeks despite resumption of training eight days postoperatively. Subsequently, the patient presented with pain over the flexor carpi radialis (FCR) tendon together with reduction of wrist flexion strength suggested an FCR tendonitis. A CT scan with injection eliminated the diagnosis of non-union and showed protrusion of the distal end of the screw. After the failure of conservative treatment (corticosteroid injection), removal of the screw and synovectomy of the FCR were scheduled. During the procedure, attrition of the FCR tendon with scar tissue and metal inclusions in its fibres were observed. A visual examination of the screw's distal end showed a distortion of its hexagonal outline due to hammering, leading to metal projection likely to have caused the FCR tendon's attrition. We recommend the systematic burying of these canulated screws as well as changing any screw damaged during its insertion."}
{"id": "19496371", "title": "Self assessment in trauma & orthopaedics II.", "content": "Self assessment in trauma & orthopaedics II."}
{"id": "19219219", "title": "Spontaneous consolidation of scaphoid nonunion in a child.", "content": "Spontaneous consolidation of scaphoid nonunion in a child. Scaphoid nonunion is very rare in childhood. A 14 year old boy with scaphoid nonunion confirmed with CT did not past scheduled surgery. In spite of the short period of immobilisation union occurred and two years after the injury he was completely asymptomatic. We suspect that injury to the scaphoid, in this case may have accelerated the union shortly before the end of ossification."}
{"id": "19211381", "title": "Retrospective review of 234 scaphoid fractures and nonunions treated with arthroscopy for union and complications.", "content": "Retrospective review of 234 scaphoid fractures and nonunions treated with arthroscopy for union and complications. The purpose of this paper is to retrospectively review 234 consecutive cases of scaphoid fractures and nonunions treated using arthroscopy with the dorsal percutaneous implantation of a headless compression screw for healing and complications. Solid union of fracture is determined by CT scan. We identified 126 acute injuries, including 65 proximal pole fractures; 67 grossly displaced fractures; 12 trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocations including four trans-scaphoid trans-capitate fractures; and ten combined scaphoid and distal radius fractures. 108 scaphoid nonunions were identified. 98 were correctly aligned and ten had a humpback deformity which was correctable using arthroscopic assisted reduction techniques at the time of surgery. 82 presented with a fracture gap 2mm or greater requiring percutaneous bone grafting. 12 cases of avascular necrosis (AVN) were identified by MRI. 20 nonunions had surgery performed at other institutions. The mean time to surgery for the nonunions was 20 months. 99% union rate of acute scaphoid fractures was obtained by 12 weeks, as determined by CT scan. Two complications were identified (3%). One case of delayed healing was identified. this delayed union was treated with percutaneous bone grafting and continued on to heal uneventfully. The other complication was a case of volar trans-scaphoid peri-lunate dislocation. While the fracture healed, the patient developed a traumatic dislocation requiring a capitate-lunate arthrodesis. Treatment of scaphoid nonunions resulted in ten cases of delayed healing, which were treated with repeat percutaneous bone grafting. This represented a 9% complication rate. of the ten cases of delayed unions that were re-bone grafted, four failed to heal by nine months. This resulted in a 96% union rate of our nonunion group by nine months. when acute fracture healing was compared to nonunions the average healing of acute fractures as determined by CT scanning measuring trabecular bridging was 12 weeks, while the average healing of non-unions was 22 weeks. We conclude that the dorsal percutaneous treatment of scaphoid fractures and nonunions using arthroscopy is safe and effective. CT scans to evaluate scaphoid healing by measuring trabecular bridging at the fracture site was determined to be an excellent modality to evaluate scaphoid healing. While not witnessed in this series, the potential for complications requires proper training."}
{"id": "19162696", "title": "A preliminary study on discrimination of osteoporotic fractured group from nonfractured group using support vector machine.", "content": "A preliminary study on discrimination of osteoporotic fractured group from nonfractured group using support vector machine. Osteoporosis is characterized by an abnormal loss of bone mineral content, which leads to a tendency to non-traumatic bone fractures or to structural deformations of bone. Thus, bone density has been considered as a most reliable parameter to assess osteoporotic fracture risk. In past decades, by the way, bone texture measures have been studied to estimate other aspect of bone quality. Some studies have been performed on CT or MR images to assess bone quality using trabecular structure analysis. Other studies have been performed on plain x-ray images or ultrasound images to assess trabecular structure. However, most of the studies are focused on individual parameters to distinguish between osteoporotic fractured group and nonfractured group. In this preliminary study, we combine various texture parameters with bone density parameters using a support vector machine and point out the most promising combination of parameters to distinguish between osteoporotic fractured group and nonfractured group."}
{"id": "19059985", "title": "Re: a missed scaphoid fracture on a CT scan with an associated trapezial fracture and dorsal dislocation of the scaphotrapeziotrapezoid joint.", "content": "Re: a missed scaphoid fracture on a CT scan with an associated trapezial fracture and dorsal dislocation of the scaphotrapeziotrapezoid joint."}
{"id": "19054836", "title": "The treatment of distal radius articular fractures through lcp system.", "content": "The treatment of distal radius articular fractures through lcp system. We analysed LCP efficiency in type B and type C wrist fractures (according to the AO Classification). We treated 58 wrist fractures (19 B-type fractures and 39 C-type fractures) in 35 male and 23 female patients, aged 19 to 87 years. Forty-one cases were followed up for an average period of 13 months. We performed a volar approach on 32 patients, a dorsal approach on five, and a double approach on four (both volar and dorsal). Twenty-six cases were pre-operatively examined with CT. All patients were evaluated using the \"Mayo modified wrist score\", with an excellent/good result in 76% of patients and a satisfactory/poor result in 24%. The LCP system proved to be adequately reliable and stable to keep the reduction in complex fractures (e.g. the C-type fractures in patients with low bone quality)."}
{"id": "19047706", "title": "Treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. A comparison of two vascularized bone grafts.", "content": "Treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. A comparison of two vascularized bone grafts. Surgically, it is difficult to achieve union of a scaphoid nonunion that is associated with osteonecrosis of the proximal pole, and those with carpal collapse are especially difficult to treat. A variety of vascularized bone grafts can be used. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of two types of vascularized bone graft--a distal radial pedicle graft and a free vascularized medial femoral condyle graft--in the treatment of scaphoid waist nonunions associated with proximal pole osteonecrosis and carpal collapse. A retrospective review was conducted at two institutions to identify all patients with a scaphoid waist nonunion associated with an avascular proximal pole and carpal collapse. Between January 1994 and June 2006, twenty-two such nonunions were identified in twenty-two patients. Ten were treated with a distal radial pedicle vascularized graft and twelve, with a free vascularized medial femoral condyle graft. Patient demographics were similar between the groups, and the duration of follow-up averaged twelve months. Union was determined with use of plain radiographs and computed tomography or trispiral tomograms. In addition, carpal angles, time to union, union rates, and complications were recorded. Four of the ten nonunions treated with the distal radial pedicle graft healed, at a median of nineteen weeks, and all twelve nonunions treated with the free medial femoral condyle graft healed, at a median of thirteen weeks. The rate of union was significantly higher (p = 0.005) and the median time to healing was significantly shorter (p < 0.001) for the nonunions treated with the medial femoral condyle graft. A vascularized interposition graft from the medial femoral condyle is the recommended vascularized bone graft for the surgical treatment of scaphoid waist nonunion with avascularity of the proximal pole and carpal collapse."}
{"id": "19043131", "title": "The use of a vascularised periosteal patch onlay graft in the management of nonunion of the proximal scaphoid.", "content": "The use of a vascularised periosteal patch onlay graft in the management of nonunion of the proximal scaphoid. We describe the use of a vascularised periosteal patch onlay graft based on the 1,2 intercompartmental supraretinacular artery in the management of 11 patients (ten men, one woman) with chronic nonunion involving the proximal third of the scaphoid. The mean age of the patients was 31 years (21 to 45) with the dominant hand affected in eight. Six of the patients were smokers and three had undergone previous surgery to the scaphoid. All of the proximal fragments were avascular. The presence of union was assessed using longitudinal axis CT. Only three patients progressed to union of the scaphoid and four required a salvage operation for a symptomatic nonunion. The remaining four patients with a persistent nonunion are asymptomatic with low pain scores, good grip strength and a functional range of wrist movement. Although this technique has potential technical advantages over vascularised pedicled bone grafting, the rate of union has been disappointing and we do not recommend it as a method of treatment."}
{"id": "19016398", "title": "Ligamentous injuries of the wrist.", "content": "Ligamentous injuries of the wrist. The purpose of this review is to summarize ligamentous injury of the wrist. Triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC), scapholunate ligament (SLL), and lunotriquetral ligament (LTL) are crucial to wrist stability. Damage to these ligaments causes changes in bone alignment and altered motion pattern. This may cause pain and eventually osteoarthritis. Imaging techniques of the wrist include conventional arthrography, computed tomography (CT) arthrography, conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and MR arthrography. Especially, MRI plays an important role in the assessment of TFCC, SLL, and LTL. Therefore, special attention is drawn to normal and abnormal MR imaging appearance of these ligaments in this review. Variety of treatment options dependent on classification of TFCC and ligamentous injury as well as role of imaging in the patient treatment are also discussed."}
{"id": "18984328", "title": "Assessment of distal radioulnar joint instability after distal radius fracture: comparison of computed tomography and clinical examination results.", "content": "Assessment of distal radioulnar joint instability after distal radius fracture: comparison of computed tomography and clinical examination results. To compare computed tomography (CT) and clinical stress test findings in terms of the assessment of distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) instability after distal radius fracture. Thirty-four patients with a healed unilateral distal radius fracture were evaluated after a mean follow-up period of 18 months. Stress test and CT were performed to detect DRUJ instability. Three CT methods were used: the modified radioulnar line, the epicenter, and the radioulnar ratio methods. The results of CT assessments were compared with stress test findings using kappa statistics. Relationships between DRUJ instability and the radiographic parameters of volar tilt, radial inclination, and radial shortening were analyzed. Twelve patients were considered to have DRUJ instability based on the stress test. DRUJ instability was diagnosed in 15, 8, and 11 patients by the modified radioulnar line, the epicenter, and the radioulnar ratio methods, respectively. Reliability analysis of stress test and CT results showed moderate or fair agreement (kappa value: .33 for the modified radioulnar line, .56 for the epicenter, .41 for the radioulnar ratio). DRUJ instability diagnosed by the stress test and by CT showed no statistical correlation with radiographic parameters, but instability determined by CT appeared to be related to dorsal tilt deformity. After distal radius fracture, CT assessments of DRUJ instability were found to be influenced by residual deformities, such as dorsal tilt, but not well correlated with stress test findings. Although CT assessments are objective, CT scans primarily show alterations of DRUJ alignment and have several risks of bias in patients with a prior distal radius fracture."}
{"id": "18984324", "title": "Relationship between the fracture location and the kinematic pattern in scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Relationship between the fracture location and the kinematic pattern in scaphoid nonunion. The purpose of this study was to obtain 3-dimensional and quantitative information regarding the pathological kinematics of the wrist with scaphoid nonunion using an in vivo and 3-dimensional motion analysis. We specifically tested the hypothesis that the fracture location is related to the kinematic pattern. We studied wrist kinematics during wrist flexion-extension motion and radioulnar deviation in 13 patients with scaphoid nonunion, using a markerless bone registration technique. Magnetic resonance images or computed tomography (CT) images of the wrist were acquired with the wrist in the neutral and 4 extreme positions of flexion, extension, radial deviation, and ulnar deviation. Three-dimensional animations were created of the carpal motions and interfragmentary motions between the distal and proximal fragments of the scaphoid. Based on the fracture location, accurate estimates of the relative positions and orientations of the carpal bones were analyzed. There were 2 clear patterns of the interfragmentary motions of the scaphoid based on the fracture location. In the mobile type scaphoid nonunion (7 cases), the fracture was located distal to the apex of the scaphoid dorsal ridge (scaphoid apex), and the distal scaphoid was unstable relative to the proximal scaphoid. The distal fragment showed a \"book-opening\" motion from wrist flexion to extension. In the stable type scaphoid nonunion (6 cases), the fracture was located proximal to the scaphoid apex, and the interfragmentary motion was considerably less than with the distal type. Carpal instability following scaphoid nonunion appears to be related to whether the fracture line passes distal or proximal to the scaphoid apex, where the dorsal scapholunate interosseous ligament and the dorsal intercarpal ligament attach. Three-dimensional imaging should be considered when assessing scaphoid nonunions to identify the exact location of the fracture. This may allow the clinician to choose the best treatment option."}
{"id": "18936035", "title": "Multidetector CT of carpal injuries: anatomy, fractures, and fracture-dislocations.", "content": "Multidetector CT of carpal injuries: anatomy, fractures, and fracture-dislocations. Fractures and dislocations of the carpal bones are more common in young active patients. These injuries can lead to pain, dysfunction, and loss of productivity. Conventional radiography remains the primary imaging modality for evaluation of suspected carpal fractures and dislocations. However, multidetector computed tomography (CT) is playing an increasingly important role, especially in the following situations: (a) when results from initial radiographs are negative in patients with suspected carpal fractures, (b) when initial radiographic findings are indeterminate, and (c) when knowledge of the extent of carpal fractures or dislocations is required before surgical treatment. The advantages of multidetector CT include quick and accurate diagnosis with availability in most emergency centers. Multidetector CT can easily display the extent of carpal fractures and dislocations, often depicting fractures that are occult at radiography. In addition, with multiplanar (two-dimensional) and volumetric (three-dimensional) reformation, pathologic conditions and anatomic relationships are better perceived. This information can be easily conveyed to orthopedic and trauma surgeons and can be crucial for surgical treatment and planning."}
{"id": "18929188", "title": "Pronated oblique view in assessing proximal scaphoid articular cannulated screw penetration.", "content": "Pronated oblique view in assessing proximal scaphoid articular cannulated screw penetration. Volar and percutaneous techniques of screw fixation for scaphoid fractures usually do not involve direct visualization of the dorsoproximal scaphoid articular surface. Intra-articular screw penetration may be overlooked if the proper fluoroscopic views are not obtained. The hypothesis of this study is that the pronated oblique fluoroscopic view of the scaphoid is the most sensitive in detecting dorsal articular screw penetration of the scaphoid when compared with other views. A 3.6-mm Steinmann pin was inserted along the central axis of the scaphoid using an open dorsal technique in 10 embalmed cadaver wrists. The pin was then withdrawn from the palmar side until it was flush with the dorsal articular surface of the scaphoid. Five fluoroscopic views of the wrist were then obtained by rotating the forearm, keeping the image beam parallel to the floor: (1) anteroposterior, (2) supinated lateral, (3) pronated lateral, (4) 60 degrees supinated oblique (60 degrees supinated from wrist neutral), and (5) 60 degrees pronated oblique (60 degrees pronated from wrist neutral). The Steinmann pin was then allowed to visually protrude proximally from the articular surface in 0.5-mm increments, and all views were repeated. The view in which articular violation was first observed was recorded, as was the corresponding amount of pin protrusion. The pronated oblique was the fluoroscopic view in which articular penetration was first observed in all 10 specimens before it was evident on the other views. The amount of pin penetrating the articular surface before it was detected on the other views was 1 mm in 6 wrists and 2 mm in 4 wrists. Statistical analysis using Fischer's exact test was performed to determine whether the radiographic projection had an effect on the determination of articular penetration. The pronated oblique view was the first view to demonstrate articular penetration, with an average radiographically measured articular penetration of 1.4 mm +/- 0.5. This study confirms our hypothesis that the pronated oblique view is the most important fluoroscopic image to obtain when evaluating penetration of the proximal scaphoid articular surface."}
{"id": "18806577", "title": "Focal uptake in the capitate bone secondary to erosive seronegative arthropathy misdiagnosed as fracture.", "content": "Focal uptake in the capitate bone secondary to erosive seronegative arthropathy misdiagnosed as fracture."}
{"id": "18762479", "title": "Observer variation in MRI for suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Observer variation in MRI for suspected scaphoid fractures. The aim of this study was to evaluate prospectively the observer variation in the detection of pathology on MRI for suspected acute scaphoid fracture. 79 consecutive MR scans were included to calculate the inter-observer variation. All patients were suspected of having a scaphoid fracture but had no fracture on radiographs. 38 randomly chosen MR scans were used to calculate the intra-observer variation. Four observers, with varying levels of expertise, blinded scored three items: (i) scaphoid fracture, (ii) localization of a scaphoid fracture, and (iii) another fracture. The observer variation was analysed using the kappa statistic. The inter-observer variation for a scaphoid fracture showed substantial agreement. For the localization of a scaphoid fracture and another fracture, there was a moderate and substantial agreement, respectively. The intra-observer variation for a scaphoid fracture had an almost perfect agreement. For the localization of a scaphoid fracture and another fracture, there was an almost perfect and substantial agreement, respectively. In conclusion, the observer variation in MRI of suspected scaphoid fractures was low. The influence of expertise with MRI in daily practice should be taken into consideration. Observers with little experience of MRI will identify all scaphoid fractures but are likely to over-diagnose injuries. Based on these results, it is recommended that all scans are reviewed by an experienced radiologist."}
{"id": "18762105", "title": "Interfragmentary motion in patients with scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Interfragmentary motion in patients with scaphoid nonunion. Scaphoid nonunions are a common complication of scaphoid fractures and frequently progress to degenerative arthritis. This study evaluated the effect of scaphoid nonunion on the in vivo kinematics of the radioscaphocapitate articulation. Computed tomography with a markerless registration technique was used to quantify motion of the scaphoid, lunate, and capitate in vivo, in 6 patients with unilateral scaphoid nonunion. The 3-dimensional helical axis of motion rotations of each bone were measured as a function of wrist flexion-extension and compared with those of the uninjured contralateral wrist. Mixed linear modeling was used to compare flexion-extension of the injured scaphoid fragments with those of the uninjured scaphoid, and the lunate of the injured wrist with the lunate of the uninjured wrist. Interfragmentary motion in the injured scaphoid was assessed by calculating rotation of the distal fragment relative to the proximal fragment, as well as the linear displacement between the 2 fragments at the fracture site. Flexion and extension of the distal scaphoid fragment was similar to that of the uninjured scaphoid. Extension of the proximal fragment was significantly decreased by 38%, compared with the uninjured scaphoid. Similarly, extension of the lunate in the injured wrist was significantly decreased, by 40%. Interfragmentary rotation was 33% of wrist motion in flexion and 35% of wrist motion in extension. Maximum interfragmentary displacement was on the order of 1 mm. Scaphoid nonunions have a dramatic impact on carpal kinematics, partially uncoupling the proximal and distal carpal rows. Although the results of this in vivo study differ from past in vitro studies, the increase in lunocapitate motion we identified is consistent with the current theory that the scaphoid acts as a fundamental link between the proximal and distal carpal rows."}
{"id": "18757961", "title": "Early magnetic resonance imaging compared with bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Early magnetic resonance imaging compared with bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures. We evaluated 100 consecutive patients with a suspected scaphoid fracture but without evidence of a fracture on plain radiographs using MRI within 24 hours of injury, and bone scintigraphy three to five days after injury. The reference standard for a true radiologically-occult scaphoid fracture was either a diagnosis of fracture on both MRI and bone scintigraphy, or, in the case of discrepancy, clinical and/or radiological evidence of a fracture. MRI revealed 16 scaphoid and 24 other fractures. Bone scintigraphy showed 28 scaphoid and 40 other fractures. According to the reference standard there were 20 scaphoid fractures. MRI was falsely negative for scaphoid fracture in four patients and bone scintigraphy falsely positive in eight. MRI had a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 100%. Bone scintigraphy had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 90%. This study did not confirm that early, short-sequence MRI was superior to bone scintigraphy for the diagnosis of a suspected scaphoid fracture. Bone scintigraphy remains a highly sensitive and reasonably specific investigation for the diagnosis of an occult scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "18756333", "title": "Wrist gouty arthritis presenting as scaphoid erosions with scapholunate ligament disruption.", "content": "Wrist gouty arthritis presenting as scaphoid erosions with scapholunate ligament disruption. We report a 43-year-old man who presented with features of acute wrist inflammation with scapholunate dissociation. Radiologically, erosions were noted in the proximal pole of the scaphoid. The patient underwent wrist arthrotomy, exploration and washout with intraoperative bacterial cultures and histology specimens were obtained. Histological analysis revealed the diagnosis of gout. We discuss the clinical presentation and literature review of this topic. This case illustrates that gout may mimic infection."}
{"id": "18753897", "title": "Assessment of inducible fracture micromotion in distal radial fractures using radiostereometry.", "content": "Assessment of inducible fracture micromotion in distal radial fractures using radiostereometry. This study examined the potential for measuring dynamic inducible micromotion (DIMM) between fragments in healing distal radial fractures using radiostereometry (RSA). Prospective imaging study. University teaching hospital. Nine patients with low-impact distal radial fractures. Volar locked plating of the fracture with insertion of tantalum beads into bone fragments. RSA examinations at 1 day and then 2, 6, 26, and 52 weeks. Motion at the fracture site was induced by maximal voluntary hand grip using a Jamar dynamometer. Radiographs were analyzed using locally developed and UMRSA software. DIMM and migration were calculated as translations and rotations of the main distal segment. Clinical precision was assessed under repeatability conditions. Precision (as 95% error limit) ranged from 0.06 to 0.13 mm and 0.5 to 0.8 degrees for migration, and from 0.10 to 0.14 mm and 0.6 to 1.0 degrees for DIMM. DIMM was characterized by axial and dorsal compression with dorsiflexion. The median DIMM of patients reached a maximum at 2 weeks: mainly as 0.3 mm axial compression, 0.3 mm dorsal compression, and 2.5 degrees dorsiflexion. DIMM ceased by 26 weeks, indicating union of all fractures. Fracture collapse continued until the 26-week measurement, ranging between 0.2 and 2.8 mm axially. Instability of some intraosseous markers was observed. The precision of this RSA method was sufficient to observe inducible movements occurring during fracture healing. This has the potential for quantifying rates of fracture union and improving understanding of the available treatments."}
{"id": "18753895", "title": "Qualitative and quantitative assessment of bone fragility and fracture healing using conventional radiography and advanced imaging technologies--focus on wrist fracture.", "content": "Qualitative and quantitative assessment of bone fragility and fracture healing using conventional radiography and advanced imaging technologies--focus on wrist fracture. Fractures of the distal radius are one of the most common injuries presented to orthopaedic surgeons. A variety of treatment options are available for the vast array of fracture patterns. Research that explores bone fragility and fracture healing has led to new treatment modalities. As new products and methods are derived to aid in fracture healing it is essential to develop noninvasive and/or nondestructive techniques to assess structural information about bone. Quantitative assessment of macro-structural characteristics such as geometry, and microstructural features such as relative trabecular volume, trabecular spacing, and connectivity may improve our ability to estimate bone strength. Methods for quantitatively assessing macrostructure include (besides conventional radiographs) dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and computed tomography (CT), particularly volumetric quantitative computed tomography (vQCT). Methods for assessing microstructure of trabecular bone include high resolution computed tomography (hrCT), micro computed tomography (microCT), high resolution magnetic resonance (hrMR), and micro magnetic resonance microMR. Volumetric QCT, hrCT and hrMR are generally applicable in vivo; microCT and microMR are principally applicable in vitro. Clinically, the challenges for bone imaging include balancing the advantages of simple bone densitometry versus the more complex architectural features of bone, or the deeper research requirements versus the broader clinical needs."}
{"id": "18753892", "title": "Quantification of bone structural parameters and mechanical competence at the distal radius.", "content": "Quantification of bone structural parameters and mechanical competence at the distal radius. For the clinician, predicting the fracture risk for individual patients is mainly restricted to the quantitative analysis of bone density. Several studies have shown that bone strength, an indicator for bone fracture risk, is only predicted moderately by bone density, indicating that there are other factors influencing bone competence. However, the relative importance of \"bone quantity\" and \"bone quality\" remains poorly understood. The objectives of this article are to describe some of the techniques used to measure the microarchitectural aspects of bone quality, how they can be quantified, and how these quantitative endpoints can be used in the assessment of bone competence. Special focus will be on the distal radius, a site with a high fracture incidence. With the introduction of high-resolution in vivo bone imaging systems, a new generation of imaging instruments has entered the arena allowing the reconstruction of the 3-dimensional microarchitecture of the bones at the wrist, thereby giving researchers and clinicians a powerful tool for the quantitative assessment of bone microstructure. In combination with large-scale finite element modeling, these methodologies have reached a level that it is now becoming possible to assess bone stiffness and strength in humans in a clinical setting. The procedure can help improve predictions of fracture risk, clarify the pathophysiology of skeletal diseases, and monitor the response to therapy."}
{"id": "18753891", "title": "Whole bone geometry and bone quality in distal forearm fracture.", "content": "Whole bone geometry and bone quality in distal forearm fracture. Fracture of the distal radius is a sentinel for future increased risk of other \"osteoporotic\" fractures, in which the peak age for incidence of distal radius fracture is 5 to 10 years before that for spine and hip fractures. Mean bone mineral density (BMD) of the distal radius was lower in patients with osteoporosis compared with age- and sex-matched normal subjects. However, it has been shown that to predict the strength of the distal radius at the site where fractures occur requires more than measurement of bone mineral content (BMC) or BMD. Only moderate correlations have been found between forearm sites, which may be a result of differences in bone composition between sites. Different forearm sites may be used interchangeably for diagnostic purposes, but the prognostic value is not known. Using the distal radius as a screening tool for identifying individuals at risk of \"osteoporotic\" fracture shows that forearm site selection and accuracy of measurement can be important confounders in group studies.Improving resolution of computed tomography (CT) scanners has enabled quantitation of cortical bone density and cortical thickness. These measurements have enabled the mechanism of bone loss in the distal radius to be elucidated and show that, after menopause, bone loss is primarily through thinning of the cortex. CT imaging allows the precise localization of bone changes in individuals and should be of value in the assessment of the severity of osteoporosis. It also shows that this technology has the potential to determine the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. A concerted effort has been made to elucidate the interrelationships between the amount of bone and the geometry and that clinical imaging of BMC and/or cross-sectional area in the radius would provide improved prediction of an individual's risk of fracture.The technological tools are available, in the clinic, to accurately measure the 3-dimensional (3D) geometry of the distal radius and the amount of bone. In addition, the cortical and cancellous bone compartments can be analyzed separately. This capability, along with the easy accessibility of the distal radius to clinical imaging modalities, provides an excellent framework for longitudinal prospective studies to determine morphologic risk factors for osteoporotic fractures of the distal radius."}
{"id": "18665795", "title": "High-resolution pQCT analysis at the distal radius and tibia discriminates patients with recent wrist and femoral neck fractures.", "content": "High-resolution pQCT analysis at the distal radius and tibia discriminates patients with recent wrist and femoral neck fractures. We depict a fragility bone state in two primitive osteoporosis populations using 3D high-resolution peripheral in vivo QCT (HR-pQCT). Postmenopausal women (C, controls, n = 54; WF, wrist, n = 50; HF, hip, n = 62 recent fractured patients) were analyzed for lumbar and hip DXA areal BMD (aBMD), cancellous and cortical volumetric BMD (vBMD), and microstructural and geometric parameters on tibia and radius by HR-pQCT. Principal component analysis (PCA) allowed extracting factors that best represent bone variables. Comparison between groups was made by analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). Two factors (>80% of the entire variability) are extracted by PCA: at the radius, the first is a combination of trabecular parameters and the second of cortical parameters. At the tibia, we found the reverse. Femoral neck aBMD is decreased in WF (8.6%) and in HF (18%) groups (no lumbar difference). WF showed a approximately 20% reduction in radius trabecular vBMD and number. Radius cortical vBMD and thickness decrease by 6% and 14%, respectively. At the tibia, only the cortical compartment is affected, with approximately 20% reduction in bone area, thickness, and section modulus and 6% reduction in vBMD. HF showed same radius trabecular alterations than WF, but radius cortical parameters are more severely affected than WF with reduced bone area (25%), thickness (28.5%), and vBMD (11%). At the tibia, trabecular vBMD and number decrease by 26% and 17.5%, respectively. Tibia cortical bone area, thickness, and section modulus showed a >30% decrease, whereas vBMD reduction reached 13%. Geometry parameters at the tibia displayed the greatest differences between healthy and fractured patients and between wrist and hip fractures."}
{"id": "18656779", "title": "Treatment of scaphoid fractures and nonunions.", "content": "Treatment of scaphoid fractures and nonunions. Scaphoid fractures are common but present unique challenges because of the particular geometry of the fractures and the tenuous vascular pattern of the scaphoid. Delays in diagnosis and inadequate treatment for acute scaphoid fractures can lead to nonunions and subsequent degenerative wrist arthritis. Improvements in diagnosis, surgical treatment, and implant materials have encouraged a trend toward early internal fixation, even for nondisplaced scaphoid fractures that could potentially be treated nonoperatively. Despite the advent of newly developed fixation techniques, including open and percutaneous fixation, the nonunion rate for scaphoid fractures remains as high as 10% after surgical treatment. Scaphoid nonunions can present with or without avascular necrosis of the proximal pole and may show a humpback deformity on the radiograph. If left untreated, scaphoid nonunions can progress to carpal collapse and degenerative arthritis. Surgical treatment is directed at correcting the deformity with open reduction and internal fixation with bone grafting. Recently, vascularized bone grafts have gained popularity in the treatment of scaphoid nonunions, particularly in cases with avascular necrosis. This article reviews current concepts regarding the treatment of scaphoid fractures and nonunions."}
{"id": "18656775", "title": "Volar wedge grafting for scaphoid nonunion with collapse.", "content": "Volar wedge grafting for scaphoid nonunion with collapse. Fractures of the scaphoid waist that fail to heal tend to collapse into a flexed posture. The so-called \"humpback deformity\" of the bone is accompanied by collapse of the proximal carpal row with dorsal tilt of the lunate. It is possible to restore scaphoid height and carpal alignment by insertion of a tricortical wedge of graft from the iliac crest. In this article, we demonstrate the surgical technique of volar wedge grafting for scaphoid nonunion."}
{"id": "18656772", "title": "Imaging for suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Imaging for suspected scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "18622846", "title": "3-year follow-up of 215 fracture patients from a prospective and consecutive osteoporosis screening program. Fracture patients care!", "content": "3-year follow-up of 215 fracture patients from a prospective and consecutive osteoporosis screening program. Fracture patients care! Fractures can be prevented if osteoporosis is identified and treated. Starting in 2002, we have been using a screening program in which patients between 50 and 75 years of age with a wrist, shoulder, vertebral, or hip fracture are assessed by DEXA of the hip and spine and if osteoporotic or osteopenic, they are encouraged to see a doctor of their own choice. The patients receive documents containing information, the results of DEXA, and a letter to present to their doctor with suggestions regarding blood tests and treatment. Here we report the 3-year follow-up regarding compliance to the recommended treatment. A questionnaire was sent to fracture patients who participated in the initial screening study from November 2002 through November 2003. Questions included whether they had seen a doctor, whether treatment had been initiated, and their opinions about osteoporosis. 215 of the 236 patients answered the questionnaire, with a mean follow-up of 39 months. 76/87 of those with osteoporosis, 70/99 of those with osteopenia, and 11/29 of those with normal BMD had seen a doctor. Anti-resorptive treatment was prescribed to two-thirds of the osteoporotic patients, to one-sixth of the osteopenic patients, and to none of the patients with normal bone density. Calcium-vitamin D supplementation as monotherapy was given to one-third of the osteoporotic patients, to half of the osteopenic patients, and to half of the normal patients. Only a few osteoporotic patients, one-third of the osteopenic patients, and half of the normal patients received no treatment. Compliance to treatment was 80% over 3 years in those treated. Most patients felt that they could influence their skeletal health. Screening of fracture patients for osteoporosis effectively identifies patients with low bone mineral density and the patient can be trusted to seek appropriate medical advice for treatment of osteoporosis. Based on the bone scan diagnosis, the treatment that these patients received reflects current treatment guidelines well."}
{"id": "18598597", "title": "The clinical scaphoid fracture: early computed tomography as a practical approach.", "content": "The clinical scaphoid fracture: early computed tomography as a practical approach. Up to 40% of scaphoid fractures are missed at initial presentation as clinical examination and plain radiographs are poor at identifying scaphoid fractures immediately after the injury. Avoiding a delay in diagnosis is essential to prevent the risk of non-union and early wrist arthritis. We demonstrate the use of CT scanning for the early confirmation of a scaphoid fracture. We conducted a retrospective, chronological review of patients who attended an upper limb fracture clinic from January 2001 to October 2003 in a small district general hospital. We performed a CT scan on all 'clinical scaphoid' patients who had negative plain X-ray films. Overall, 70% of patients had a CT scan within 1 week of injury and not from date of accident and emergency attendance; 83% of patients had a CT scan within 2 weeks of injury. Of 118 patients identified, 32% had positive findings and 22% of 'clinical scaphoid' patients had scaphoid fractures. The proportion of positive findings for an acute scaphoid fracture was 68%. Additional pathologies identified on CT were capitate, triquetral and radial fractures. Our audit shows that it is practical to perform CT on suspicious scaphoid fractures in a small district general hospital. We identified an extremely high false-negative rate for plain X-rays and demonstrate that the appropriate use of CT at initial fracture clinic attendance with 'clinical scaphoid' leads to an earlier diagnosis and reduces the need for prolonged immobilisation and repeated clinical review."}
{"id": "18590847", "title": "Percutaneous screw fixation for scaphoid nonunion in skeletally immature patients: a report of two cases.", "content": "Percutaneous screw fixation for scaphoid nonunion in skeletally immature patients: a report of two cases. Nonunion of the scaphoid waist in skeletally immature patients is rarely diagnosed. We report 2 cases of scaphoid nonunion in skeletally immature patients who underwent percutaneous screw fixation without bone graft. In stable nonunions with minimal sclerosis, percutaneous screw fixation without bone graft can be an alternative to the conventional open procedure in skeletally immature patients, with successful union and clinical outcome."}
{"id": "18590846", "title": "Trabecular microstructure at the human scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Trabecular microstructure at the human scaphoid nonunion. Scaphoid fractures have the highest prevalence of nonunion in the human body, but despite this, little is known about the microstructure of the bone. Given that microstructural changes in the bone at the site of nonunion define the nonunion, it was our purpose to characterize the trabecular microarchitecture on both sides of the nonunion and compare these to the normal structure. Fifteen human scaphoid nonunions (14 men, 1 woman; average age, 29 years; interval between injury and examination ranged from 7 to 156 months) were excised during surgical reconstruction and assessed by high-resolution micro-computed tomography. The bone from the nonunions was clearly different from that of normal scaphoids (obtained from nonreplantable hand amputations or postmortem). Bone on both sides of the nonunions was characterized by higher bone mineral density and an increased number of trabeculae, which were thinner and more tightly packed together compared with the normal scaphoid bones. Further evaluation showed that the bone on the proximal side of the nonunion had higher bone mineral density, higher bone volume fraction, decreased bone surface area, increased trabecular thickness, and increased trabecular number when compared with the distal side. These data demonstrate the differing microstructure of the bone at the scaphoid nonunion, particularly on the proximal side, and indicate that the biology also differs from normal. The data also show that scaphoid nonunions produce new bone at the site, which may have positive implications toward hardware fixation and healing stimulation."}
{"id": "18586545", "title": "[Scaphoid malunion].", "content": "[Scaphoid malunion]. Scaphoid fracture and healing are often difficult to diagnose. The scaphoid bone may heal in an abnormal position and this malunion is usually in flexion and shortening. Fractures of the mid or distal part of the bone are mainly concerned. This malunion may be the cause of an alteration of the carpal mechanics and finally of osteoarthritis revealed by pain and decrease of motion and strength. The intrascaphoid angle of Amadio helps to calculate the magnitude of the deformity and to plan the correction. This malunion has to be corrected only if symptomatic. Two other types of malunions exist: healing with a rotation of the distal fragment, and healing with irregular contours which may also lead to arthritis. Correction of the malunion will be performed after having assessed precisely measurements of the deformity using comparative X-rays, special views, carpal indices and eventually a dedicated specific software. In the literature may be found a certain number of papers where scaphoid osteotomy combined with a trapezoidal bone graft and a bone fixation using a screw have been performed with success and healing for all cases. This procedure may be performed without hesitation for a symptomatic healed scaphoid, even if it has been operated before for nonunion."}
{"id": "18562365", "title": "The value of plain X-rays in predicting TFCC injury after distal radial fractures.", "content": "The value of plain X-rays in predicting TFCC injury after distal radial fractures. In this prospective study, the plain X-rays and MRI scans of 60 patients with intraarticular distal radius fractures were examined in random order. MRI evaluation revealed that 27 of the 60 patients (45%) had triangular fibrocartilage lesions. No correlation was found between triangular fibrocartilage injury and the Melone classification system, the presence of an ulnar styloid fracture, comminution of the articular surface of the distal radius, >20 degrees dorsal angulation of the distal radius or subluxation/dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint on the plain X-rays. When Frykman Type VI and VIII fractures were compared with all the other Frykman subtypes, a significant difference in the incidence of triangular fibrocartilage complex tears was observed. We conclude that triangular fibrocartilage injury should be considered with all distal radial fractures, especially the Frykman Types VI and VIII."}
{"id": "18543166", "title": "[C-type scaphoid fracture in a elite power lifting].", "content": "[C-type scaphoid fracture in a elite power lifting]. Power lifting injuries most often involve shoulder injuries with an injury rate of 0.57 to 0.71/1000 hours of power lifting. Wrist injuries are less common in power lifters with 0.05/1000 hours exposure vs. 0.23/1000 h in elite weight lifting men. Often, two contributing factors causing wrist injuries are encountered: a) loss of balance causing the barbell to drift back behind the head of the power lifter, which hyperextends the wrist and b) the maximal weight. We report on an elite power lifting athlete preparing for the World Masters Bench press championships suffering two months of persisting pain during bench press exercise and rest in the snuff-box area following a loss of balance of the bar-bell during bench press with 280 kg load. Following prolonged presentation 2 months after the initial injury with training in the meantime, CT-scan was performed revealing a C-type scaphoid fracture. Surgery was performed as Herbert screw fixation and bone grafting according to the technique of Matti-Russe, followed by an immobilisation of twelve weeks with a plaster. We recommended ending the athletes' power lifting career, however he further exercised with the plaster with consecutive re-operation 3months later and 2nd Matti-Russe and Herbert screw re-do. One year later he became national champion with 240 kg bench pressing. Given the limited scaphoid blood supply and the high complication rate especially among C-type scaphoid fractures, a surgical procedure with bone grafting, Herbert screw fixation and sufficient plaster immobilisation is advocated in scaphoid fractures in elite athletes."}
{"id": "18541245", "title": "Reply to letter to the Editor: Beeres FJP, Hogervorst M, Rhemrev SJ. A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: Bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome [Injury 2007;38(7):769-74].", "content": "Reply to letter to the Editor: Beeres FJP, Hogervorst M, Rhemrev SJ. A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: Bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome [Injury 2007;38(7):769-74]."}
{"id": "18541243", "title": "A comparative analysis of the accuracy, diagnostic uncertainty and cost of imaging modalities in suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "A comparative analysis of the accuracy, diagnostic uncertainty and cost of imaging modalities in suspected scaphoid fractures. Clinical examination of suspected scaphoid fractures is sensitive, but not specific, and initial plain radiographs lack sensitivity. A variety of second-line imaging techniques have been proposed to improve immediate diagnosis and reduce overtreatment. Different sample populations and methods of reporting test performance have made side-by-side comparison difficult. The aim of this study is to describe the epidemiology of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and determine the prevalence of true fracture. These data are used to compare second-line imaging techniques in our population. 200 consecutive patients attending a trauma service with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture were followed through diagnosis to discharge. The prevalence of true fracture was 16% and was associated with male sex and injury playing sport. Magnetic resonance imaging has the best diagnostic performance, with the added benefit of soft tissue evaluation, but was the most expensive option. Ultrasound examination was least effective in detecting true fractures. Future studies should further evaluate the clinical and economic sequelae of overtreatment of suspected fractures. Clinicians should examine alternatives to \"empirical\" treatment without definite diagnosis based on their local facilities and patient demographics."}
{"id": "18528238", "title": "Minimal invasive screw fixation and early mobilization of acute scaphoid fractures in the middle third: operative technique and early functional outcome.", "content": "Minimal invasive screw fixation and early mobilization of acute scaphoid fractures in the middle third: operative technique and early functional outcome. Fractures of the scaphoid are relatively common injuries. Differentiation between stable and unstable fractures (Herbert classification) cannot always be made with conventional radiographs and should be additionally evaluated by computed tomographic scan. Under most circumstances, minimal invasive surgery with cannulated screws is currently the treatment of choice. Cast immobilization is not necessary. This article describes the technique of fracture fixation in the middle third of the scaphoid from a palmar approach and early functional outcomes. The outcome assessment included measurement of active range of motion as well as grip strength and the Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire as a measurement of activities of daily living. Fifty-four patients with acute scaphoid fractures were treated with minimal invasive screw fixation between April 2001 and January 2005. All patients in this retrospective study received a preoperative computed tomographic scan before surgery. Bony consolidation was found in 52 cases after 6 weeks; 2 patients required reosteosyntheses. The results demonstrate that minimal invasive screw fixation leads to satisfying functional outcomes within a few weeks."}
{"id": "18525472", "title": "The role of bone scan in the diagnosis of carpal fracture in children.", "content": "The role of bone scan in the diagnosis of carpal fracture in children. A retrospective study was performed to evaluate the role of bone scan in the management of wrist trauma in children with equivocal radiographic findings. Thirty-one out of the 50 children showed no fracture. Six of them were treated for a median period of 9 days on clinical grounds; the others were discharged with reassurance. Four patients with evidence of soft tissue injury received no further treatment. Six of the 12 patients with a fracture on bone scan were treated with a cast for more than 4 weeks. None of the patients developed any complications. Bone scan is helpful when the diagnosis of a carpal fracture in children is equivocal."}
{"id": "18447291", "title": "[Emergency checklist: fracture of the skaphoid bone].", "content": "[Emergency checklist: fracture of the skaphoid bone]."}
{"id": "18443060", "title": "Treatment of scaphoid non-unions of the proximal third with conventional bone grafting and mini-Herbert screws: an analysis of clinical and radiological results.", "content": "Treatment of scaphoid non-unions of the proximal third with conventional bone grafting and mini-Herbert screws: an analysis of clinical and radiological results. This study assessed the clinical and radiological outcomes after treatment of scaphoid non-union of the proximal third by non-vascularised bone grafts and stabilisation by Mini-Herbert Screws from a dorsal approach. Thirty-one patients, one woman and 30 men, were reviewed retrospectively at a mean of 42 (12-77) months. All patients received pre- and postoperative CT scans to assess bone union. In addition to demographic data, the range of motion, grip strength, DASH score, Krimmer score, Mayo wrist score and radiological parameters (carpal height, scapholunate and radiolunate angles) were recorded. Bone union was achieved in 21 patients. The average DASH score in patients with bone union was 12 and that in patients with persistent non-union it was 30. No progression into carpal collapse or increase of scapholunate angles was detected. Our study demonstrates that acceptable union rates can be achieved with non-vascularised bone grafts, and this technique compares favourably with other reports in the literature."}
{"id": "18420064", "title": "[Bulge of the scapholunate ligament: an arthro-CT sign of traumatic scapholunate instability].", "content": "[Bulge of the scapholunate ligament: an arthro-CT sign of traumatic scapholunate instability]. Tears of the scapholunate ligament are usually diagnosed during an arthro-CT or arthro-MRI examination. Typically, the contrast agent passes from one joint to the other. In certain cases, fibrous scar tissue devoid of any mechanical effect may block the passage and lead to an erroneous interpretation of the images. We reviewed retrospectively patients who underwent arthroscopic treatment for scapholunate tears and who had normal arthro-CT images. We searched for specific aspects suggestive of ligament injury. Analysis of the arthro-CT images demonstrated that a bulge of the scapholunate ligament could be noted in patients whose diagnosis of scapholunate ligament injury was established arthroscopically. We propose that appropriate lecture of wrist images can identify scapholunate ligament injury in patients wrongly considered to be free of wrist injury, but who actually have an occult injury to the scapholunate ligament."}
{"id": "18345477", "title": "Idiopathic avascular necrosis of the capitate bone: a new case report.", "content": "Idiopathic avascular necrosis of the capitate bone: a new case report. Idiopathic avascular necrosis (AVN) of the capitate bone is an important, although rare, cause of spontaneous onset of wrist pain. Most cases involve direct or indirect trauma. Only a few reports of idiopathic avascular necrosis have been published. We present a case report of a 32-year-old woman who presented with a chief complaint of a left wrist pain, swelling and loss of all ranges of motions for approximately 1 year. She had no history of prior wrist trauma or steroid use. Laboratory testing for systemic disease or infection were negative. Diagnosis of avascular necrosis of the capitate has been made via plain film radiology, isotope bone scanning, and computed tomography scan. No etiologic factor could be identified. Surgical treatment was recommended, given drilling and autogenous bone grafting. Histological analysis showed necrotic bone. The physical therapy was implemented to restore function. Two months postoperatively, she was almost pain free."}
{"id": "18314126", "title": "A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome.", "content": "A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome."}
{"id": "18294538", "title": "Load transmission through the wrist in the extended position.", "content": "Load transmission through the wrist in the extended position. The wrist is subjected to extremely high compressive loads in the extended position, but pathoanatomy of this region remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to analyze force transmission in the maximum extended position to clarify the pathomechanics of wrist injury. Two sets of computed tomography images of wrist joints were obtained for 7 normal subjects: one set in neutral position and the other set in maximum extension. A three-dimensional rigid body spring model was used to analyze stress distributions through the wrist joint. The wrist joint was constructed from computed tomography images. External force was applied to the 5 metacarpals in neutral position and to the palm in extended position. Force transmissions through the carpus and ligament tension in extended position were compared with those in neutral position, and force distributions were compared in each position. Force transmission ratio on the scaphoid fossa significantly increased from 52% in neutral to 62% in extension (p< .05), whereas the ratio through the lunate fossa decreased from 42% to 36%. In the midcarpal joint, force to the scaphoid significantly increased from 60% to 69% (p< .05). Force distributions of the radiocarpal joint in the extended position moved on the center of the lunate fossa and interfossal ridge of the scaphoid fossa. The dorsal ridge of the radial articular surface appeared as the new contact area. Tension in 3 palmar intrinsic ligaments and the flexor retinaculum greatly increased in the extended position. Force transmission in the extended position shifted radially, concentrating at the scaphoid. We could show how bending force causes scaphoid fracture and concentration of force on the radius surface might cause intra-articular fracture coinciding with the fracture pattern introduced by Melone. The palmar intrinsic ligaments appear key to maintaining the carpal arch in push-up position. Our theoretical analysis could well explain several patterns of wrist injuries."}
{"id": "18283425", "title": "[Disorders of the distal radioulnar joint following fractures of the distal end of the radius].", "content": "[Disorders of the distal radioulnar joint following fractures of the distal end of the radius]. After a fracture of the distal radius, whether healed in an anatomic position or malunited, many patients complain about problems on the ulnar side of the wrist with pain and decreased range of forearm rotation. In addition many patients are unhappy with the unpleasant appearance of the wrist joint. The complaints are related to tears of the triangular fibrocartilaginous complex, instability, and/or incongruity of the distal radioulnar joint and degenerative changes. Malunion of the distal radius must be taken into account when discussing treatment options. The purpose of this paper is to describe a treatment algorithm with respect to the clinical symptoms, the pathology as well as the presence or absence of a deformity of the distal radius."}
{"id": "18219475", "title": "[A new vascularized cartilague-bone-graft for scaphoid nonunion with avascular necrosis of the proximal pole. Description of a new type of surgical procedure].", "content": "[A new vascularized cartilague-bone-graft for scaphoid nonunion with avascular necrosis of the proximal pole. Description of a new type of surgical procedure]. The formation of a scaphoid pseudarthrosis with avascular necrosis in the area of the carpus is a The formation of a scaphoid pseudarthrosis with avascular necrosis in the area of the carpus is a dreaded complication after conservative or operative treatment of a scaphoid bone fracture, which previously often led to partial or total stiffening operations on the wrist. Vascularized bone grafts can be used to increase the bone fusion rates in the presence of scaphoid pseudarthrosis with avascular necrosis. On a note of caution, it must be mentioned, though, that such a procedure in the presence of avascular necrosis of the proximal pole with destruction of cartilage can lead to premature radiocarpal arthritis, because a friction-free gliding in the area of the proximal scaphoid pole is no longer ensured as a result of the lacking cartilage cover.We confronted these problems in a 20-year-old male patient with avascular necrosis of the proximal scaphoid bone pole and destruction of the corresponding scaphoidal cartilage cover. We transplanted a free vascularized cartilage-bone graft from the medial femoral condyle, which was adapted in form and size to the proximal scaphoid bone pole with corresponding cartilage cover and was connected to the radial vascular bundle. This novel operation technique is described in this report and appears to be a promising way of avoiding premature radiocarpal arthritis when treating scaphoid bone pseudo-arthrosis with avascular necrosis in the presence of cartilage destruction."}
{"id": "18201921", "title": "[Bilateral non-union scaphoid or bipartite carpal scaphoid bone arthritis?].", "content": "[Bilateral non-union scaphoid or bipartite carpal scaphoid bone arthritis?]. The authors report a case of bilateral division of the carpal scaphoid in a 36-year-old man. In the right wrist, all the clinical and radiological signs suggested a bipartite scaphoid, but in the left wrist the presence of pain and pan-radial osteoarthritis rather suggested a pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid. This raises the possibility of osteoarthritis occurring overtime in a bipartite carpal scaphoid."}
{"id": "18164402", "title": "Intraosseous ganglion of the phalanx.", "content": "Intraosseous ganglion of the phalanx. Intraosseous ganglions occurring in the hand are rare. Most reported cases involve the lunate or the scaphoid. This report presents a very extremely rare case of intraosseous ganglion arising in the middle phalanx of an index finger. Multi-modality imaging features using plane radiograph, CT, and MRI of this ganglion are presented for the first time."}
{"id": "18094287", "title": "MDCT and radiography of wrist fractures: radiographic sensitivity and fracture patterns.", "content": "MDCT and radiography of wrist fractures: radiographic sensitivity and fracture patterns. The purpose of our study was to determine which wrist fractures are not prospectively diagnosed at radiography using CT as a gold standard and to identify specific fracture patterns. Through a search of radiology records from January 1 to December 31, 2005, 103 consecutive patients were identified as having radiographic and CT examinations of the wrist. After excluding incomplete or nondiagnostic examinations and those with a greater than 6-week interval between imaging studies, the final study group consisted of 61 wrist examinations in 60 patients. Two musculoskeletal radiologists and one emergency radiologist blindly reviewed CT examinations, and each bone (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, pisiform, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, metacarpals, distal radius, distal ulna) was categorized as normal or fractured, with agreement reached by consensus. Each prospective radiographic report was categorized as either normal or fracture/equivocal for each osseous structure. Results were compared using the chi-square and Fisher's exact tests. In the proximal carpal row, lunate and triquetrum fractures were often radiographically occult (0% and 20%, respectively, detected at radiography); whereas in the distal carpal row, trapezoid, capitate, and hamate fractures were often occult (0%, 0%, and 40% detected at radiography, respectively). Hamate fractures were significantly associated with metacarpal fractures, and distal radius fractures were associated with scaphoid and ulna fractures. Thirty percent of wrist fractures were not prospectively diagnosed on radiography, suggesting that CT should be considered after a negative radiographic finding if clinically warranted. The location of a dorsal scaphoid avulsion fracture emphasizes the need for specific radiographic views or cross-sectional imaging for diagnosis."}
{"id": "18087747", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of plain radiographs and cineradiography in diagnosing traumatic scapholunate dissociation.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of plain radiographs and cineradiography in diagnosing traumatic scapholunate dissociation. Missed tears of the scapholunate ligament (SLL) and scapholunate dissociation (SLD) after wrist injuries pose a high risk of post-traumatic osteoarthritis of the carpus. Plain X-rays and dynamic radiographic studies are frequently used for initial diagnostic work-up. Given the limited evidence of their accuracy, we retrospectively compared the radiographic findings of patients with suspected traumatic SLD with wrist arthroscopy as the accepted reference standard. During a 6-year period, plain radiographs and DSA cineradiography scans were obtained from 198 patients who had sustained a hyperextension injury to their hand. Of those, 102 (72 men, 30 women, mean age of 42+/-12 years) subsequently underwent diagnostic arthroscopy. Digital images were reevaluated by experienced radiologists unaware of the arthroscopic findings for the presence or absence of SLD. We calculated the sensitivity (SN) and specificity (SP) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and computed areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC/ROC). Arthroscopy revealed 42 SLL ruptures, 13, 10, and 19 of which were classified as grade I (partial), II (complete with dynamic instability), or III (complete with static instability) respectively. Plain radiographs correctly identified 24 injuries (SN 57.1%, 95% CI 41.0-72.3%), and produced 1 false-positive result (SP 98.3%, 95% CI 91.1-100.0%). The scapholunate distance and the SL angle contributed independently to the diagnostic variance, with an AUC/ROC of 85.7% (95% CI 76.8-92.2%). Cineradiography had a sensitivity of 36 out of 42 (85.7%, 95% CI 71.5-94.6%), and a specificity of 57 out of 60 (95.0%, 95% CI 86.1-99.0%). Pathological results on plain radiographs and cineradiography reliably indicate the presence of SLD after wrist trauma. Although non-conclusive, a negative dynamic study markedly reduces the pre-test probability of disease. Both methods remain key elements of primary diagnostic strategies for suspected traumatic SLD, and may facilitate the selection of additional tests."}
{"id": "17951122", "title": "Comparison of proximal row carpectomy and midcarpal arthrodesis for the treatment of scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse (SNAC-wrist) and scapholunate advanced collapse (SLAC-wrist) in stage II.", "content": "Comparison of proximal row carpectomy and midcarpal arthrodesis for the treatment of scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse (SNAC-wrist) and scapholunate advanced collapse (SLAC-wrist) in stage II. Traumatic instability of the proximal carpal row is based either on a scaphoid fracture or a scapholunate dissociation. Long-standing scaphoid nonunion or scapholunate ligament insufficiency may lead to a carpal collapse and subsequent arthrosis. Controversy exists regarding the appropriate salvage procedure for patients with scapholunate advanced collapse (SLAC)- or scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse (SNAC)-wrist in stage II. Proximal row carpectomy (PRC) and midcarpal arthrodesis (MCA) are two commonly used options. The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the functional outcome and pain relief in SNAC-SLAC-wrist stage II after MCA, compared to PRC in a long term follow up. In the MCA group 17 patients, nine SLAC- and eight SNAC-wrists, with an average age of 47 years at surgery and a mean follow up of 42 months were examined. The PRC group consisted of 30 patients, seven SLAC- and 23 SNAC-wrists, with an average age of 39 years at surgery and a mean follow up of 27 months. Active range of motion (AROM) was verified with a goniometer, grip strength was measured with a JAMAR-Dynamometer II. Pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale from zero to 100 (VAS 0-100) under resting and stress conditions. Patients' upper extremity disability was measured with the DASH questionnaire. Radiographic evaluation was carried out by conventional X-ray to verify bony consolidation. Mean values of postoperative AROM in extension/flexion was 61 degrees in MCA, and 75 degrees in PRC patients; radial/ulnar deviation was 32 degrees and 33 degrees, respectively. Mean DASH-score was 21 in the MCA and 25 in the PRC group. Pain relief was 54% in MCA and 77% in PRC during resting conditions and 22% and 42% during stress conditions. Static grip strength was significantly higher following MCA than PRC (72% to 50%). Among both the MCA and PRC groups three patients required further treatment with total arthrodesis due to persisting pain or absence of bony consolidation. Our data demonstrate that PRC is more favourable for patients who require less grip strength at work. For patients carrying out heavy manual work we recommend MCA due to the significantly better grip strength postoperatively."}
{"id": "17950656", "title": "Validation of a new surgical procedure for percutaneous scaphoid fixation using intra-operative ultrasound.", "content": "Validation of a new surgical procedure for percutaneous scaphoid fixation using intra-operative ultrasound. A new technique for percutaneous fixation of non-displaced scaphoid fractures is described. The technique used pre-operative planning from computed tomography images, registration to intra-operatively acquired three-dimensional ultrasound images, and intra-operative guidance using an optical tracking system. Two stand-alone software applications were developed. The first one was used to determine the surgical plan pre-operatively and the second one was used to guide the surgeon during screw insertion. Laboratory validation of the technique included measurements of the inter-operator and intra-operator variability in the outcome of scaphoid fixation using the proposed procedure, and also included comparison of the performance of this procedure with the conventional percutaneous fixation technique using fluoroscopy. The results showed that the tight accuracy requirements of percutaneous scaphoid fixation were met and that the consistency was superior to the conventional technique."}
{"id": "18217397", "title": "Pregnancy-associated osteoporosis: an underestimated and underdiagnosed severe disease. A review of two cases in short- and long-term follow-up.", "content": "Pregnancy-associated osteoporosis: an underestimated and underdiagnosed severe disease. A review of two cases in short- and long-term follow-up. Pregnancy-associated osteoporosis is an uncommon condition characterized by the occurrence of painful fractures during late pregnancy or lactation. To date the pathophysiology of this entity of bone disorder is still uncertain, and its therapeutical management is poorly defined. We report two clinical cases: a 10-years follow-up with pain medication and intermittent antiresorptive therapy courses, subsequent traumatic vertebral fracture and actually fracture of scaphoid after inadequate trauma. Beside this long-term course a young female patient with pregnancy-associated osteoporosis and painful lumbar and also thoracic vertebral fractures is described. She was treated with an osteoanabolic therapy, at the timepoint of first follow-up at 6 months of treatment a solid increase of bone mineral density and sustained pain reduction was observed."}
{"id": "18166960", "title": "[Bilateral fracture of the pisiform bone].", "content": "[Bilateral fracture of the pisiform bone]. Fracture of the pisiform bone is exceptional compared with the other carpal bones. Such lesions may be missed in the emergency room because of the complex anatomy of the carpal region. The usual circumstances leading to fracture of the pisiform bone include fall with reception on the hyperextended wrist, traffic accidents, and blunt trauma. The purpose of this work was to present a case of bilateral fracture of the pisiform bones. A 34-year-old woman presented with pain along the ulnar borders of both wrists after a fall. The mechanism of fracture was direct trauma on both hands after reception in radial inclination. The diagnosis was established late and conservative treatment was applied. After simple immobilization, the clinical and functional outcome was excellent. The anatomic position of the pisiform bone exposes it to direct trauma. Late diagnosis can favor osteoarthritic sequelae involving the pisotriquetral joint."}
{"id": "18098361", "title": "Neglected fracture dislocation of the second and third carpometacarpal joints: a case report.", "content": "Neglected fracture dislocation of the second and third carpometacarpal joints: a case report. We report a rare case of neglected fracture dislocation of the second and third carpometacarpal joints, which was treated by arthrodesis of the involved joints."}
{"id": "18092740", "title": "Point-based rigid-body registration using an unscented Kalman filter.", "content": "Point-based rigid-body registration using an unscented Kalman filter. We present and validate a novel registration algorithm mapping two data sets, generated from a rigid object, in the presence of Gaussian noise. The proposed method is based on the Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) algorithm that is generally employed for analyzing nonlinear systems corrupted by additive Gaussian noise. First, we employ our proposed registration algorithm to fit two randomly generated data sets in the presence of isotropic Gaussian noise, when the corresponding points between the two data sets are assumed to be known. Then, we extend the registration method to the case where the data (with known correspondences) is stimulated by anisotropic Gaussian noise. The new registration method not only reliably converges to the correct registration solution, but it also estimates the variance, as a confidence measure, for each of the estimated registration transformation parameters. Furthermore, we employ the proposed registration algorithm for rigid-body, point-based registration where corresponding points between two registering data sets are unknown. The algorithm is tested on point data sets which are garnered from a pelvic cadaver and a scaphoid bone phantom by means of computed tomography (CT) and tracked free-hand ultrasound imaging. The collected 3-D points in the ultrasound frame are registered to the 3-D meshes in the CT frame by using the proposed and the standard Iterative Closest Points (ICP) registration algorithms. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method significantly outperforms the ICP registration algorithm in the presence of additive Gaussian noise. It is also shown that the proposed registration algorithm is more robust than the ICP registration algorithm in terms of outliers in data sets and initial misalignment between the two data sets."}
{"id": "18075414", "title": "Reliability of bone scintigraphy for suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Reliability of bone scintigraphy for suspected scaphoid fractures. To examine the observer variation for bone scintigraphy in the detection of occult scaphoid fractures in daily practice, using only the early bone scanning images. One hundred bone scans of patients with a suspected scaphoid fracture but negative initial radiographs were prospectively included to calculate the inter- and intraobserver variation. Three nuclear medicine physicians independently evaluated all bone scans at 2 different points in time with a 3-month interval. The observers filled out a blinded scoring sheet for each patient. They scored if a scaphoid fracture was present or not. In addition, they scored the presence or absence of another fracture. The inter- and intraobserver variation was analyzed using the kappa statistic. The interobserver variation showed substantial agreement for a scaphoid fracture and almost perfect agreement for another fracture. The intraobserver variation showed almost perfect agreement for both a scaphoid fracture and another fracture. In the present study, early static images of bone scintigraphy for suspected scaphoid fractures showed very little inter- and intraobserver variation. In addition, expertise does not seem to have a negative influence on the results. This enhances the possibility of using bone scintigraphy in daily practice."}
{"id": "18023237", "title": "[Traumatic pathology of antibrachial interosseous membrane of forearm].", "content": "[Traumatic pathology of antibrachial interosseous membrane of forearm]. The antibrachial interosseous membrane (IOM) is taught over an average length of 10.6cm between the diaphyses of the radius and ulna bone. It looks like a stitch with fibers running from the ulna to the radius and from proximal to distal and fibers running from distal to proximal. The central band, which is the middle part of the fibers directed from distal to proximal has mechanical properties similar to those of a ligament and act as a ligamentous structure embedded in the larger membranous complex of the IOM. The interosseous membrane has a double function: it stabilizes transversally the forearm's two bones and stabilizes longitudinally the two bones by transferring loads from the radius to the ulna. Load transmission varies according to the prono-supination position, the varus-valgus constraints on the elbow and the inclination of the wrist, making interpretation of the experimental data difficult. One should consider the forearm as a whole and the interosseous membrane with the two diaphyses should be regarded as a middle radio-ulnar joint, intercalated between the proximal and distal radio-ulnar joint. Those three articulations or links between radius and ulna act synergistically to stabilize and optimize repartition of loads. Functional loss of one of these links, and of course of more than one, will severely modify the forearm function. Essex-Lopresti lesion, which represents the functional loss of all three links, is the most destabilizing forearm lesion. Imaging of the interosseous membrane is difficult. MRI allows for static imaging of the interosseous membrane but there are often artifacts due to previous trauma or surgical procedures. Dynamic sonography helps to visualize all the lesions and will probably be part of the evaluation of every severe forearm injury. Surgical treatment depends on the gravity of the lesions of the different links. Interosseous membrane reconstruction is still the most difficult technique and most of the previously reported ligamentoplasties cannot answer all the biomechanical constraints. We describe a ligamentoplasty based on the biomechanics whose technique has been validated by cadaveric experiments. First surgical cases are promising."}
{"id": "17996771", "title": "A biomechanical comparison of scaphoid fixation with bone grafting using iliac bone or distal radius bone.", "content": "A biomechanical comparison of scaphoid fixation with bone grafting using iliac bone or distal radius bone. Although many scaphoid fractures may be treated by immobilization, complex scaphoid fractures generally require bone grafting with internal fixation. A preferred source of bone graft for scaphoid grafting is the iliac crest. Donor site morbidity from iliac crest harvest, however, is a known complication, and the comparable strength and osteogenic properties of bone harvested from other sites are unclear. To this end, we have conducted a cadaveric comparative investigation of the strength of scaphoid nonunions with bone graft and internal fixation using either iliac crest bone or distal radius bone. Ten paired, human, fresh-frozen cadaveric wrists were used to create a standard midwaist wedge osteotomy into which identically shaped distal radius or iliac crest bone wedges were internally fixed using headless compression screws. After bone density and computed tomography assessment of the bones, benchtop biomechanical testing was conducted to compare the strength of the scaphoids after iliac and distal radius grafting, at 2-mm displacement, and at failure. Analysis of scaphoid length, width, height, weight, density, and screw placement revealed no statistical differences between both bone graft groups. Although not significant, scaphoid nonunions grafted with distal radius bone evidenced a reduced load (3.23 +/- 0.26 Nm) to 2-mm displacement compared with iliac crest bone (5.97 +/- 0.68 Nm). Similarly, though not significant, scaphoids grafted with distal radius bone showed a reduced load (4.18 +/- 0.30 Nm) to failure compared with iliac crest bone grafting (6.42 +/- 0.66 Nm). Although no significance was found between the 2 grafting methods, a trend toward greater strength in the iliac crest graft group was observed. Given the comparable biomechanical strength shown between iliac and distal radius bone in this study and the simplified surgical technique of distal radius harvesting, the data justify use of distal radius bone as a viable alternative donor source in scaphoid fracture treatment."}
{"id": "17993436", "title": "Dorsoradial avulsion of the triangular fibrocartilage complex with an avulsion fracture of the sigmoid notch of the radius.", "content": "Dorsoradial avulsion of the triangular fibrocartilage complex with an avulsion fracture of the sigmoid notch of the radius. We report two extremely rare cases of dorsal radial avulsion injury of the triangular fibrocartilage complex accompanied by an avulsion fracture of the sigmoid notch of the radius. Anatomical reduction of the bone fragment in conjunction with reattachment of the dorsal portion of the radioulnar ligament to the radial sigmoid notch were necessary to restore stability of the distal radioulnar joint and tension of the triangular fibrocartilage proper."}
{"id": "17993420", "title": "The pathology of the long ulna: anatomy and treatment.", "content": "The pathology of the long ulna: anatomy and treatment. A long ulna, as a result of congenital differential growth, such as Madelung's disease, or injury, commonly a consequence of a malunited distal radial fracture, may present clinically as pain, decreased motion, mainly of pronosupination, and weakness of grip. Secondary effects may include perforations and tears of the triangular fibrocartilage complex, cartilage wear of the proximal surface of lunate and triquetrum and tears of the lunotriquetral ligament. Positive ulnar variance may be evident on X-rays but a prominent ulnar head cannot always be excluded when there is neutral ulnar variance and further investigations, such as an arthroCTscan or arthroscopy, may be necessary. The two principle treatment options are (a) resection of the distal ulna (Darrach's and Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji's techniques are commonly used) and (b) techniques preserving the ulnar head, including different modalities of shortening osteotomy. The aim is to regain a congruent distal radioulnar joint, restore painless and normal pronosupination and prevent onset of osteoarthritis of this joint."}
{"id": "17966737", "title": "A case of wrist pain. Scaphoid fracture.", "content": "A case of wrist pain. Scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "17950226", "title": "Corrective osteotomy for volar instability of the distal radioulnar Joint associated with radial shaft malunion.", "content": "Corrective osteotomy for volar instability of the distal radioulnar Joint associated with radial shaft malunion. Volar instability of the distal radioulnar joint is an uncommon wrist disorder. We report three cases of recurrent volar instability of the distal radioulnar joint secondary to fracture of the radial shaft. In all cases, X-rays showed a volar apex deformity of the radial shaft. Opening wedge osteotomy and iliac bone grafting was performed on the distal diaphysis of the radius instead of on the radial shaft, in order to adjust the distal radioulnar joint more easily. Pre-operative dislocations and painful clunks disappeared in all three patients. However, slight instability of the distal radioulnar joint remained in all cases. Osteoarthritis of the distal radioulnar joint was noted in one patient 31 months after the operation. All of the patients were satisfied with the results and did not desire further operations."}
{"id": "17950221", "title": "Delayed post-traumatic midcarpal dislocation.", "content": "Delayed post-traumatic midcarpal dislocation. We report a case of delayed post-traumatic volar midcarpal dislocation in a 39 year-old woman. The dislocation was a gradual process starting from the time of injury. Initial X-rays showed a normal midcarpal joint. By 6 weeks, lunocapitate subluxation was apparent radiologically and by the 18 week X-ray, midcarpal dislocation had occurred. This type of wrist injury has not been previously reported. Because of advanced degenerative changes in the lunocapitate joint, a partial wrist fusion was performed with a successful outcome."}
{"id": "17941586", "title": "[Post-traumatic cyst of the scaphoid--a case report].", "content": "[Post-traumatic cyst of the scaphoid--a case report]. Carpal bone cysts are very uncommon and they are usually occasionally diagnosed during radiological examination of the wrist after trauma. Some carpal bone cysts are symptomatic and then they are revealed on routine X-ray investigation. We present a case of 14 years old boy, in whom a scaphoid bone cyst developed around the foreign body (a splinter), stacked into the wrist when he fell on the wooden board. Because of pain, swelling and reduction of active range of motion of the wrist occurred at the load of the hand and lasted 3 months, patient was given radiological examination which was negative, and eventually CT scanning revealed a scaphoid bone cyst. Patient underwent operation: curettage of the lesion followed by filling of the bone defect with prepared allogenic bone. Histopathological examination of the contents of the cyst showed presence of wood piece, surrounded with granulomatic tissue and necrotic trabecular bone. This suggested a splinter stacked in the wrist at the primary injury to be a cause of cyst formation. Surgery resulted in complete recovery in 6 months."}
{"id": "17898580", "title": "Management of wrist injuries.", "content": "Management of wrist injuries. After studying this article, the participant should be able to: 1. Understand the anatomy and the biomechanical properties of the wrist. 2. Understand the standard examination process for wrist injuries. 3. Accurately diagnose common wrist conditions. 4. Establish a management plan for wrist problems. Although common, wrist injuries and conditions are difficult to treat if the physician is unfamiliar with their management. Wrist anatomy and kinematics are discussed. Physical and radiographic examinations that are mandatory for diagnosing wrist conditions are presented. Common wrist injuries are reviewed. Understanding the anatomy and kinematics of the wrist is important in diagnosing and treating wrist conditions and in predicting outcomes after treatment. Physical examination of the wrist requires an understanding of the surface anatomy and a number of specific maneuvers. Physicians should also be familiar with other diagnostic tests, which include radiography, arthrography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopy. Physicians who treat wrist injuries should be able to establish an adequate management plan for common wrist injuries and conditions and be able to predict outcomes based on these treatment plans."}
{"id": "17886133", "title": "Missed isolated volar dislocation of the scaphoid.", "content": "Missed isolated volar dislocation of the scaphoid. A patient presented with volar dislocation of the scaphoid, the diagnosis of which had been missed for two weeks. He was treated with open reduction through a combined volar and dorsal approach with decompression of the median nerve, internal fixation, and a cast for eight weeks. One year postoperatively the functional result was good. A radiograph showed no sign of avascular necrosis."}
{"id": "17870425", "title": "Early-onset multiple myeloma: an illustrative case report.", "content": "Early-onset multiple myeloma: an illustrative case report. This case study describes a patient diagnosed with early manifestations of multiple myeloma and illustrates relevant aspects of differential diagnosis and the use of laboratory, radiologic, and advanced imaging techniques to aid in establishing the diagnosis and issues of management. A 36-year-old male student experienced midback pain that occurred primarily at night in conjunction with fever and unexplained weight loss. Minor trauma induced a significant fracture and an occult fracture in the upper extremity. Physical examination revealed an elevated temperature indicating a fever of undetermined etiology. Plain radiographs revealed diffuse osteoporosis of the thoracic spine. Laboratory tests revealed anemia, hypercalcemia, and abnormal monoclonal paraprotein. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a fracture with poor healing and an occult fracture in the upper extremity. The patient was initially assessed for fever of undetermined etiology in association with nocturnal midback pain. Although considered a disease of the geriatric population, subsequent laboratory and radiologic evaluations established a diagnosis of early-onset multiple myeloma. Early recognition and referral with comanagement by an oncologist provided optimum care. Early-onset cases of multiple myeloma tend to have a more favorable response to treatment as compared with cases diagnosed in the geriatric population. Multiple myeloma should be a consideration when a patient presents with nocturnal back pain and fever of undetermined etiology. Differentiating multiple myeloma from other causes of back pain is especially important in making management decisions. With a precise history and physical diagnosis, the diagnosis may be suspected, but confirmation must rely on ancillary investigations. Multiple myeloma is frequently accompanied by a poor prognosis, but early-onset cases generally respond more favorably to interventions."}
{"id": "17729005", "title": "Ultrasound guidance for puncture and injection in the radiocarpal joint.", "content": "Ultrasound guidance for puncture and injection in the radiocarpal joint. The use of intra-articular contrast agent has been shown to increase the diagnostic accuracy of wrist magnetic resonance (MR) in patients with suspected trauma of the wrist ligaments. Traditionally, the contrast agent has been applied under fluoroscopic guidance. To present a method based on ultrasound guidance for the injection of intra-articular contrast agent in wrist MR. One hundred eight patients (56 female and 52 male, mean age 36 years) referred for wrist MR arthrograms due to suspected ligament rupture were included in this retrospective study. The preferred injection point is about 1 cm distal to Lister's tubercle in the distal radius. A correct positioning of the injection needle can be ensured using ultrasound guidance. Using this technique, the injection was intra-articular in 93.5% of the 108 injections over a 2-year learning period. Ultrasound guidance of the contrast injection in radiocarpal MR arthrograms is a cost-effective and safe alternative to fluoroscopically guided procedures. Furthermore, the use of ultrasound guidance provides clues about possible fluid collections within the joint."}
{"id": "17666445", "title": "Does extremity-MRI improve erosion detection in severely damaged joints? A study of long-standing rheumatoid arthritis using three imaging modalities.", "content": "Does extremity-MRI improve erosion detection in severely damaged joints? A study of long-standing rheumatoid arthritis using three imaging modalities. Long-standing rheumatoid arthritis produces unique challenges when assessing damage due to joint deformity. The use of extremity magnetic resonance imaging (eMRI) offers the possibility of improved disease assessment because of greater patient tolerability. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to compare the identification of wrist erosions in a severe rheumatoid arthritis cohort by eMRI with a restricted field of view (eMRI-RV) to radiography and high field MRI, using the latter as the reference. Fifteen patients (87% female, median age 56 years) with active rheumatoid arthritis (median DAS28 7.01 and disease duration 11 years) on leflunomide were enrolled. Radiography of hands, eMRI-RV (0.2 T MagneVu MV 1000) and high field MRI of unilateral wrist joints were performed. Of 86 comparable wrist joint areas, high field MRI identified 70 erosions, eMRI-RV 32 and radiography 4. With high field MRI considered the reference, the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of eMRI-RV for erosions were 46%, 94% and 55%, and the corresponding values for x ray were 6%, 100% and 23%, respectively. In severely damaged rheumatoid arthritis joints, sensitivity of erosion detection was markedly higher for eMRI-RV than radiography, using high field MRI as the reference. eMRI-RV was, however, less sensitive than high field MRI."}
{"id": "17663310", "title": "Injuries of the carpus and scaphoid.", "content": "Injuries of the carpus and scaphoid."}
{"id": "17610183", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures: diagnosis, surgical approach, and complications].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures: diagnosis, surgical approach, and complications]."}
{"id": "17564689", "title": "Early computerized tomography accurately determines the presence or absence of scaphoid and other fractures.", "content": "Early computerized tomography accurately determines the presence or absence of scaphoid and other fractures. To validate the use of early CT in predicting scaphoid fracture and other fractures in patients with suspected scaphoid fracture. A prospective observational study of adult patients with a diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture presenting to a regional ED. Patients were immobilized in a scaphoid plaster and had a CT (wrist and carpals) same or next day. The gold standard used was the diagnosis on Day 10 with clinical examination and X-rays, with MRI performed in patients with persistent tenderness but normal X-rays. Forty-seven patients completed the study protocol from September 2004 until February 2006. For all fractures, early CT had a 96.8% negative predictive value and 100% positive predictive value (94.4% sensitive, 100% specific). No scaphoid fracture was missed by early CT. One patient had a trapezium fracture on CT, with a coexistent subtle capitate fracture only detected on MRI. Early CT scans show promise in the diagnosis of scaphoid and other fractures of the wrist and carpals. Further study is warranted to validate early CT in clinical scaphoid fracture as an alternative to other early advanced imaging, or plaster immobilization and 2 week review."}
{"id": "17560407", "title": "Carpal bone fractures.", "content": "Carpal bone fractures. Carpal bone fractures make up a significant proportion of injuries to the wrist. The complex bone shape and articulations make diagnosis more difficult and missed injuries more common. This article reviews carpal bone fractures excluding the scaphoid."}
{"id": "17560406", "title": "Management of scaphoid nonunions.", "content": "Management of scaphoid nonunions. Scaphoid nonunions can exist with or without avascular necrosis of the proximal pole, and waist fractures may have an associated humpback deformity. CT best shows the deformity and bone loss, whereas MRI will show avascular necrosis. Operative treatment should be directed at correcting the deformity with open reduction and internal fixation and bone grafting. Vascularized bone grafts should be used in cases of avascular necrosis."}
{"id": "17560405", "title": "Acute scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Acute scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fractures are a common problem encountered in clinical practice. This manuscript provides an algorithm for the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of acute scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "17556000", "title": "[Numerical variants and congenital fusions of carpal bones].", "content": "[Numerical variants and congenital fusions of carpal bones]. The number of carpal bones may be increased or decreased by the fact of anatomical variants or true congenital anomalies. Numerical increment arises from additional or from split bones. Over twenty accessory carpal bones have been described but the commonest are the os centrale carpi, the os radiale externum, the triangular bone and the styloideum bone. Additional carpal bones usually result from a failure of fusion of their ossification centers. A congenital origin is not clearly established for all these ossicles. The scaphoid and lunate may split into two or three bones and several cases of bipartite hamulus of the hamatum have been reported. A carpus with only seven bones results from the congenital absence of a normal bone, which mainly affects the scaphoid, lunate and triquetrum, or from a synostosis between two carpal bones, usually the lunate and triquetrum. Congenital fusions originate from an absence of joint cavitation into the embryo and chondrification of the joint interzone. Numerical carpal variants are uncommon as independent entities but occur with a relative high frequency in association with complex malformations of the hand. These anomalies are detectable on plain radiographs of the wrist, but CT-scan and MR-Imaging are useful to differentiate bipartite and accessory bones from carpal fractures or posttraumatic injuries, carpal fusions having to be distinguished from bony ankylosis."}
{"id": "17546435", "title": "[Navigation for placement of scaphoid screws : a new indication for intraoperative 3D navigation-a cadaver study].", "content": "[Navigation for placement of scaphoid screws : a new indication for intraoperative 3D navigation-a cadaver study]. Up to now, the use of navigation systems for the placement of scaphoid screws has been impossible, mainly because there have been no ways of fixing the reference markers. Faulty placement rates in internal fixation of the scaphoid show there is a current need for a 3D image-based navigation system and intraoperative monitoring of how successful the procedure will be. For this reason, we have developed a new radiotransparent hand fixation device (Scaph-Splint), which allows reliable and accurate drilling of the scaphoid using 3D navigation. Tests of this device and the simultaneous precise placement of screws securing an internal fixation device are described in this paper. Relative movements between the wrist and fixation device were measured with a 3-D ultrasound motion analyser system. Five cadaveric upper extremity specimens were then used for further navigated test applications. Each specimen was placed in the fixation device, and both the forearm and hand were secured to the two surfaces, with the wrist in approximately 80 degrees of extension. A reference marker was then securely fixed to the fixation device. A commercial navigation system and 3-D fluoroscopic imaging were used for each trial. Under navigation, the scaphoid was drilled in retrograde fashion, and a screw was placed into the drilled hole. Following screw placement, a 3D scan was performed to evaluate its position. The screw placement was analysed blindly to optimal placement and drill or screw perforation, and the image quality was rated on a visual analog scale (VAS). There were few artefacts, and the image quality of the 3-D scan was judged as as good (VAS 79). Deviations of >or=0.2 mm between planned trajectory and drilling tunnal were not found in any of the specimens; there were deviations of >or=1 mm in one case, and all other cases showed deviations of <or=1 mm. There were no registration failures of the navigation system, indicating that no loosening of the reference marker or movement of the hand occurred. There was one case of scaphoid perforation at the distal pole. We found that the Scaph-Split allowed complete immobilisation of the hand and carpus. This allowed for adequate reference tracker stability and subsequent successful 3D navigated fluoroscopic drilling and screw placement in the scaphoid. While further tests on fresh-frozen cadavers is warranted, this technique may prove clinically to be very useful for surgeons treating scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "17541372", "title": "[The diagnosis of recent scaphoid fractures: review of the literature].", "content": "[The diagnosis of recent scaphoid fractures: review of the literature]. Fractures of the scaphoid are the most common carpal fractures. A review of the literature indicates that the prevalence of the fracture in the case of clinical suspicion is less than 50%. A quality X-ray examination remains essential as an initial diagnostic tool in the evaluation of scaphoid fractures. Its sensitivity varies from 59 to 79%. Patients with negative X-rays present with about 18.7% of scaphoid fractures; 5% of bruised scaphoid; 13% of radius fractures and 7% of miscellaneous bone lesions. If not treated promptly, a scaphoid fracture may be compounded by non-union with associated risk factors such as avascular necrosis and osteoarthritis. Considering these risks, patients with suspected scaphoid fracture with normal X-rays, routinely undergo wrist immobilization until imaging confirms or denies the presence of fracture. Consequently, more than half of the patients undergo wrist immobilization needlessly. This may have a negative impact on their professional life and personal activities while representing a high medical cost. MRI is the imaging technique of choice for suspicious or negatice X-rays. MDCT is less costly than MRI or bone scan, readily available and highly effective for trauma patients but is lacks accuracy and should be used with caution in this indication."}
{"id": "17533093", "title": "Case studies in the diagnosis of upper extremity pain using magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Case studies in the diagnosis of upper extremity pain using magnetic resonance imaging. The diagnosis of upper extremity pain can be a daunting task for the examining physician. The differential diagnosis for pain at each level in the upper extremity is often extensive and diverse. Quite frequently, the clinical signs and symptoms of multiple pathologic conditions are overlapping and nonspecific. The decision to treat conservatively or with surgery often depends on the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. MRI's ability to produce multiplanar images with excellent soft tissue contrast has made it an indispensable tool for diagnosis and treatment planning in patients with upper extremity pain. In most instances, MR imaging provides information that all other modalities cannot. This is all possible due to an incredible imaging device that creates magnificent images painlessly and with no known detrimental biological side effects. This article demonstrates only a small number of the possible causes of upper extremity pain that can be diagnosed with MR imaging. It is comforting to know that the vast majority of pathology causing pain in the upper extremity can be visualized with MRI scanning."}
{"id": "17478754", "title": "Scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunion."}
{"id": "17472294", "title": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid. Fractures of the scaphoid must be treated promptly to minimize the risk of malunion and nonunion. Although most scaphoid fractures have been reported to heal well with cast immobilization, advances in surgical techniques have greatly changed the decision-making process for treatment. It is worthwhile to review the different management options for acute fractures."}
{"id": "17471775", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures: diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures: diagnosis and therapy]. An adequate management of scaphoid fractures requires fast and reliable diagnosis. In this, proper history taking and physical examination are essential. Routine scaphoid x-rays miss over 20% of all scaphoid fractures. Therefore, in patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture that cannot be proven by scaphoid x-rays, further diagnostic investigation is indicated. Which supplemental diagnostic tool (bone scintigraphy, MRI, CT) is preferred remains unclear. A below-the-elbow cast without immobilisation of the thumb is an adequate treatment for stable fractures. Unstable fractures and all proximal pole fractures are candidates for open or percutaneous treatment. In addition to the type of fracture, patient-specific requirements are important in deciding which type of management is the most suitable."}
{"id": "17415246", "title": "Scaphoid nonunions: management with vascularized bone grafts from the distal radius: a clinical and functional outcome study.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunions: management with vascularized bone grafts from the distal radius: a clinical and functional outcome study. Scaphoid nonunions remain controversial with regard to optimal management, especially for those located at the proximal third. In this study, the authors aim to assess the union rate, avascular proximal pole revascularization, and functional outcome of scaphoid nonunions managed with distal radius vascularized bone grafts. Thirty patients were treated with vascularized bone grafts between 1999 and 2003 and prospectively followed up. The average nonunion chronicity was 3.3 years. Nine patients (30 percent) had avascular necrosis of the proximal pole, five had unsuccessful previous surgical procedures, and four had radioscaphoid arthritis (Lichtman type III). Twenty proximal third nonunions were managed with dorsal radius bone graft, whereas 10 waist nonunions had palmar grafts. Union was assessed clinically and radiologically and, in 67 percent of the patients, by means of magnetic resonance imaging. All cases were united by 12 weeks, and magnetic resonance imaging confirmed that all necrotic proximal poles were revascularized. On at least 24 months' follow-up, 90 percent of patients achieved complete pain relief. Wrist flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation arcs did not change. The postoperative grip strength was 82 percent of the contralateral side. The Mayo Modified Wrist Score increased significantly from 58 to 85 points and, overall, 77 percent of patients had an excellent or good outcome. No risk factors for compromised wrist function were identified. The scapholunate angle, the scaphoid length, and the Nattrass index improved significantly. This series demonstrates the efficacy of distal radius vascularized bone grafts in union enhancement, proximal pole revascularization, pain relief, improved wrist function, and carpal alignment. Vascularized bone grafts are a reliable therapeutic alternative for scaphoid nonunions."}
{"id": "17402142", "title": "[MR imaging for the evaluation of accompanying injuries in cases of distal forearm fractures in children and adolescents].", "content": "[MR imaging for the evaluation of accompanying injuries in cases of distal forearm fractures in children and adolescents]. The study was made to evaluate the role of MR imaging in pediatric distal forearm fractures by comparison with the findings of plain radiographs and MRI. 38 patients (27 boys and 11 girls, mean age of 12 years, range 7 to 15 years) with radiographically open distal radius and ulna growth plates requiring first aid for a fracture of the distal third of the forearm, were included in this study. The fractures were diagnosed on plain radiographs and conservative treatment was performed. In 35 patients MR imaging was performed within 3 weeks after the accident and in 3 patients MRI was performed after 6 to 9 weeks because of persistent wrist pain. Fifteen Salter/Harris II injuries of the radius and 1 of the ulna, 1 torus fracture of the radius and 2 of the ulna, 12 greenstick fractures of the radius and 3 of the ulna, 10 complete displaced radius fractures and 15 ulnar styloid fractures were found on plain radiographs. Twelve patients had evidence of associated triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) lesions in MRI, there was no statistical correlation between TFCC lesions and fracture types, fracture dislocations or patients age (p > 0.5). One patient had an avulsion of the radioscaphocapitate ligament from the radius accompanying a greenstick fracture of the distal radius. 19 bone bruises and two radiographically occult fractures were identified. In 2 patients, a bone marrow oedema was seen in the radial epiphysis immediately adjacent to the germinal zone of the growth plate. In these patients premature physeal arrest occurred. MRI plays an important role in the evaluation of acute pediatric wrist injuries. It allows a better evaluation of osseous lesions than plain radiographs. In our study, a tear of the triangular fibrocartilage complex accompanied distal radius fractures in 32 % of patients. Simultaneous rupture of the TFCC insertion in the fovea ulnaris and ulnar styloid fracture lead to destabilisation of the distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ)."}
{"id": "17384376", "title": "The usefulness of CT for patients with carpal bone fractures in the emergency department.", "content": "The usefulness of CT for patients with carpal bone fractures in the emergency department. The wrist is the most commonly injured joint in the body. However, wrist injuries are often missed in the emergency department (ED). If the fracture is not diagnosed and remains untreated, the patient runs a considerable risk of chronic disability. The utility of CT as an aid in the diagnosis of carpal bone fracture was investigated. A retrospective analysis was performed of patients who underwent CT and plain radiography for wrist injury in the ED between March 2003 and February 2006. Plain radiograph interpretations were classified into three groups: (1) the definite fracture group, (2) the no fracture group, and (3) the ambiguous fracture group. The CT results were analysed in relation to the classification of the plain radiograph interpretation. The final diagnoses reviewed from the medical records were used as the reference standard. 36 carpal fractures in 33 patients were identified from 45 patients who underwent plain radiography and CT. The interpretations of plain radiographs were classified into definite fractures (n = 10), ambiguous fractures (n = 15) and no fractures (n = 20). When both the definite fracture and ambiguous fracture groups were considered positive, the sensitivity and specificity were 69.7% and 83.3%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of CT scans were both 100%. Emergency physicians should consider CT of the wrist after plain radiography when patients with suspected carpal fracture show normal radiographic findings."}
{"id": "17350200", "title": "Positioning of the wrist for scaphoid radiography.", "content": "Positioning of the wrist for scaphoid radiography. The purpose of this cadaver study was to determine the ideal position of the wrist for scaphoid radiography. Four cadaver wrists were rotated around their longitudinal axis in 15 degrees increments and exposures were taken. Seven postero-anterior images were taken as well. Thus, 18 images of each wrist were available for assessment. Views were determined in which the main anatomic regions of the scaphoid were visualized undistorted. The size and localization of the overlap of other carpal bones were also evaluated. Finally, views with the best visualization of anatomic landmarks were selected. The results of these three investigations were compared to literature data. We consider the following four images the most valuable in the diagnostic imaging of scaphoid bone: (1) Postero-anterior view in ulnar deviation of wrist and fist position of the hand; (2) oblique view in 60 degrees of pronation; (3) oblique view in 60 degrees of supination; (4) lateral view. We concluded that our four views are sufficient for proper radiographic evaluation of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "17343073", "title": "Hand injuries in children: a reflective case study.", "content": "Hand injuries in children: a reflective case study."}
{"id": "17335946", "title": "Scaphoid bone bruising--probably not the precursor of asymptomatic non-union of the scaphoid.", "content": "Scaphoid bone bruising--probably not the precursor of asymptomatic non-union of the scaphoid. The MRI finding of bone marrow oedema, without fracture, following trauma to the scaphoid has been called a 'bone bruise'. A similar injury is found in the knee, considered benign and managed conservatively. In the scaphoid, there is the concern that this lesion may lead to scaphoid non-union. This study addresses that concern. The clinical and radiological findings of 41 patients with a scaphoid bone bruise on MRI are described, an MRI classification system proposed and clinical outcomes investigated. Patients were immobilised for 6 weeks. At 3 months, 8 remained symptomatic and had repeat MRI. Four of these showed complete resolution of the bruise, the others improvement. At 6 months, 2 of the 8 complained of minor, intermittent discomfort but progressed to resolution of symptoms. This study suggests that the scaphoid bone bruise is a benign injury with predictable recovery and is unlikely to result in long-term morbidity in the form of non-union."}
{"id": "17328995", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of the modified double-plating fixation for the distal radius fracture.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of the modified double-plating fixation for the distal radius fracture. Distal radius fracture is among the most common type of skeletal injuries. To conquer the surgical and biomechanical complications of the most-frequent used double-plating operation for this fracture, modified double-plating technique was proposed in this study. The aim of this study was to investigate the biomechanical interactions of double-plating, modified double-plating and traditional single plating fixations coupled with various load conditions using nonlinear finite element analysis. A three-dimensional finite element distal radius fracture model with three fixation methods (double-plating, modified double-plating and single) was generated based on computer tomography data. After model verification and validation, frictional (contact) elements were used to simulate the interface condition between the fixation plates and the bony surface. The rigidity, stress values and displacements at the radius end were observed under axial, bending and torsion load conditions. The simulated results showed that the modified double-plating model demonstrated the highest rigidity and the least displacement among the three techniques in bending, but not in axial compression (similar results across the three) and torsion (modified double-plating technique possessed lowest rigidity). The maximum von Mises stress for bone was lower in modified double-plating model as well. These results indicated that modified double-plating technique demonstrated a better structural strength against bending with the least potential of fracture fragments and screw loosening. Although a lower torsional rigidity, modified double-plating technique was a better choice in distal radius fracture fixation since the bending force, which has the potential to separate the fracture ends, is more detrimental in hindering fracture healing."}
{"id": "17325931", "title": "A three-dimensional laminated paper model of the scaphoid from computed tomography.", "content": "A three-dimensional laminated paper model of the scaphoid from computed tomography. To describe a method of producing a life-sized three-dimensional (3D) solid model of a scaphoid bone by combining multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) volume data and rapid prototyping technique using thin paper as material, and to evaluate the dimensional accuracy of the experimental model. We experimentally produced life-sized 3D solid models of 14 cadavers' scaphoid bones using high-resolution MDCT volume data, and evaluated the dimensional accuracy of the 3D solid models. The 3D solid model was almost perfectly produced in both size and shape (length, height, width, dorsal cortical angle, and landmarks of the scaphoid bone) compared to the real cadaver's scaphoid bone. In addition to accuracy, the cost and time for creating the model might be reasonable. This technique may be useful in assisting repair of scaphoid bone fracture."}
{"id": "17307177", "title": "A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome.", "content": "A prospective comparison for suspected scaphoid fractures: bone scintigraphy versus clinical outcome. Early diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fractures limits the number of delayed and non-unions. Bone scintigraphy proved to be a sensitive diagnostic tool for the detection of occult scaphoid fractures. However, the results have to be interpreted with care. To prospectively correlate the results of bone scintigraphy with clinical outcome. In a prospective study, we analysed 50 consecutive patients with signs of a scaphoid fracture at physical examination but no evidence of a scaphoid fracture on scaphoid radiographs. All patients had a protocolised follow up at fixed intervals. The clinical outcome was defined according to a standardised algorithm. Bone scintigraphy revealed 32% (16/50) occult scaphoid fractures and 40% (20/50) occult other fractures. Clinical outcome proved that bone scintigraphy was false positive in five patients and in one case false negative for a scaphoid fracture. Bone scintigraphy in combination with protocolised physical examination is the gold standard for patients with signs of a scaphoid fracture that cannot be proven on scaphoid radiographs."}
{"id": "17299354", "title": "[Imaging of wrist injuries in athletes].", "content": "[Imaging of wrist injuries in athletes]. Wrist imaging is currently used for diagnosis of sport injuries as part of a global strategy of rapid recovery. Standard x-rays are the first step in this procedure. Although arthrography is still the reference for the diagnosis of intrinsic ligament and cartilaginous lesions, MRI can sometimes be sufficient. Ultrasonography is a dynamic process and is accurate in detecting tendon injuries. Wrist sport injuries are frequent and often asymptomatic. Here we review the usual aspects of bone, ligament, and tendon lesions encountered in each sport, while providing advice on the most appropriate imaging for each clinical symptom."}
{"id": "17299353", "title": "[Imaging in sport medicine].", "content": "[Imaging in sport medicine]."}
{"id": "17289531", "title": "Hand dominance and bone response after a distal radial fracture: a peripheral QCT study.", "content": "Hand dominance and bone response after a distal radial fracture: a peripheral QCT study. There are no reports on bone geometry or volumetric bone density adaptations in those who have sustained a distal radial fracture. We used peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to quantify bone and muscle response to immobilization. We measured side-side differences in women aged > or =50 yr who had previously sustained a wrist fracture (4.0+/-3.5 mean yr since fracture). We used pQCT and DXA to measure bone in 31 women (mean age 72.4+/-9.7 yr) at the 4% and 30% sites of bilateral radii; measured grip strength and functional outcome. Initially, we compared the fractured side to intact side and did not control for hand dominance. We observed greater total area (ToA) at the distal (4%) radius on the fractured side without a significant increase in density. At the midshaft (30% site), we observed significantly less ToA and cortical bone on the fracture side. Grip strength was also significantly less on the fractured side (p<0.01). We assessed dominant side fractures and nondominant fractures separately. We observed a greater discrepancy between limbs with a nondominant side fracture, even after accounting for dominance. This cross-sectional study suggests that the bone response to a nondominant fracture may differ from a dominant fracture."}
{"id": "17262830", "title": "Effects of distal radius malunion on distal radioulnar joint mechanics--an in vivo study.", "content": "Effects of distal radius malunion on distal radioulnar joint mechanics--an in vivo study. Patients with a malunited distal radius often have painful and limited forearm rotation, and may progress to arthritis of the distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ). The purpose of this study was to determine if DRUJ congruency and mechanics were altered in patients with malunited distal radius fractures. In nine subjects with unilateral malunions, interbone distances and dorsal and palmar radioulnar ligament lengths were computed from tomographic images of both forearms in multiple forearm positions using markerless bone registration (MBR) techniques. The significance of the changes were assessed using a generalized linear model, which controlled for forearm rotation angle (-60 degrees to 60 degrees ). In the malunited forearm, compared to the contralateral uninjured arm, we found that ulnar joint space area significantly decreased by approximately 25%, the centroid of this area moved an average of 1.3 mm proximally, and the dorsal radioulnar ligament elongated. Despite our previous findings of insignificant changes in the pattern of radioulnar kinematics in patients with malunited fractures, we found significant changes in DRUJ joint area and ligament lengthening. These findings suggest that alterations in joint mechanics and soft tissues may play an important role in the dysfunction associated with these injuries."}
{"id": "17224223", "title": "Collapsed scaphoid non-union with dorsal intercalated segment instability and avascular necrosis treated by vascularised wedge-shaped bone graft and fixation.", "content": "Collapsed scaphoid non-union with dorsal intercalated segment instability and avascular necrosis treated by vascularised wedge-shaped bone graft and fixation. Patients with the specific problem of a collapsed Nakamura volar type, scaphoid synovial pseudarthrosis with avascular necrosis on both magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative inspection were studied to determine the ability of a trapezoidal wedge-shaped structural bone graft vascularised by the 1,2 intercompartmental supraretinacular artery to simultaneously achieve correction of the scaphoid dimension and a high union rate. Fifteen patients with this specific problem were followed for a mean of 32.1 months and achieved union in all cases at a mean of 11.5 weeks. Improvements were seen postoperatively in wrist flexion and extension, grip strength, degree of dorsal intercalated segment instability and degree of scaphoid collapse. Two complications relating to the fixation technique occurred. Although technically difficult, it is possible to achieve a high rate of union for scaphoid pseudarthrosis while correcting substantial collapse deformity by the use of a structural, wedge-shaped, vascularised bone graft."}
{"id": "17218177", "title": "Computed tomography of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Computed tomography of suspected scaphoid fractures. Computed tomography (CT) can be used to triage suspected scaphoid fractures. This study assessed intraobserver and interobserver reliability and positive and negative predictive values of CT for the diagnosis of a nondisplaced scaphoid fracture. Eight observers evaluated CT scans from 30 patients (13 with nondisplaced scaphoid fractures, 17 with no scaphoid fractures) for the presence or absence of a fracture. Five observers evaluated the scans a second time. Statistical analyses included intraobserver and interobserver reliability and diagnostic characteristics. Computed tomography had substantial intraobserver and interobserver reliability for the diagnosis of a nondisplaced scaphoid fracture. The average sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of CT for a nondisplaced scaphoid fracture were 89%, 91%, and 90% for the first round and 97%, 85%, and 88% for the second round of observations, respectively. Based on an estimated prevalence of 5% true fractures among patients with suspected scaphoid fractures, the average positive predictive value for the detection of radiographically occult scaphoid fractures with tomography of the wrist was 0.28. The average negative predictive value was 0.99. Computed tomography should be used with caution for triage of nondisplaced scaphoid fractures because false-positive results occur, perhaps from misinterpretation of vascular foraminae or other normal lines in the scaphoid. Given the relative infrequency of true fractures among patients with suspected scaphoid fractures, CT is better for ruling out a fracture than for ruling one in."}
{"id": "17196311", "title": "Treatment of scaphoid non-unions by a palmar approach with vascularised bone graft harvested from the thumb.", "content": "Treatment of scaphoid non-unions by a palmar approach with vascularised bone graft harvested from the thumb. Ten patients with scaphoid non-unions which had been present for longer than 2 years were treated using a vascularised bone graft harvested from the thumb and pedicled on the first dorsal metacarpal artery. Bone harvesting and grafting were performed by a single palmar approach. Concomitant cancellous bone graft was not used. Bone healing was confirmed by CT scans in nine of the ten patients. Persistence of the non-union was observed in one patient who was the oldest in this series, had the longest standing non-union and was a heavy smoker. Twelve months after surgery, nine of the ten patients had significant pain relief with an improved range of motion and grip strength."}
{"id": "17177044", "title": "[Comparison of C-arm CT and standard imaging in osteosyntheses of fractured distal radius specimens].", "content": "[Comparison of C-arm CT and standard imaging in osteosyntheses of fractured distal radius specimens]. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of C-arm CT imaging of the distal radius with standard patient positioning in intraoperative assessment of plate osteosynthesis. Four complete distal radius specimens from human cadavers were fractured (type C), and internal fixation with palmar plates (stainless steel) was then carried out in each. On the basis of C-arm fluoroscopy, radiography and C-arm CT (Siremobil Iso-C3D, scans with forearm bones positioned parallel to the z-axis), 19 observers subsequently evaluated the positions of screws near the joint and any steps within the joint, after which the bones were surgically exposed and the imaging results checked against direct visual observations. No statistically significant differences were detected either between the modalities or between the evaluator groups. With standard patient positioning, the performance of C-arm CT was equivalent to and not better than that of current standard procedures, i.e. intraoperative fluoroscopy and postoperative radiography. Further studies should examine whether this holds true in clinical practice with representative patient collectives when titanium implants are used and/or optimized patient positioning is practised."}
{"id": "17945644", "title": "A robust technique for 2D-3D registration.", "content": "A robust technique for 2D-3D registration. A robust 2D-3D registration method with a wide capture range is presented. The method registers pre-operatively collected 3D computed tomography (CT) data sets of a single bone fragment to its intra-operative fluoroscope images. The registration technique relies on hardware rendering of CT data on consumer-grade graphics cards to generate digitally reconstructed radiographs (DRRs) in real time. We also employ unscented Kalman filter to solve for the non-linear dynamics governing this 2D-3D registration problem. The method is validated on phantom models of three different anatomies, namely scaphoid, pelvis and femur. We show that, under the same testing conditions, our proposed technique outperforms the conventional simplex-based method in capture range and robustness while providing comparable accuracy and computation time."}
{"id": "17414993", "title": "Stress fractures in athletes.", "content": "Stress fractures in athletes. A stress fracture is a partial or complete bone fracture that results from repeated application of stress lower than the stress required to fracture the bone in a single loading. Otherwise healthy athletes, especially runners, sustain stress injuries or fractures. Prevention or early intervention is the preferable treatment. However, it is difficult to predict injury because runners vary with regard to biomechanical predisposition, training methods, and other factors such as diet, muscle strength, and flexibility. Stress fractures account for 0.7% to 20% of all sports medicine clinic injuries. Track-and-field athletes have the highest incidence of stress fractures compared with other athletes. Stress fractures of the tibia, metatarsals, and fibula are the most frequently reported sites. The sites of stress fractures vary from sport to sport (eg, among track athletes, stress fractures of the navicular, tibia, and metatarsal are common; in distance runners, it is the tibia and fibula; in dancers, the metatarsals). In the military, the calcaneus and metatarsals were the most commonly cited injuries, especially in new recruits, owing to the sudden increase in running and marching without adequate preparation. However, newer studies from the military show the incidence and distribution of stress fractures to be similar to those found in sports clinics. Fractures of the upper extremities are relatively rare, although most studies have focused only on lower-extremity injuries. The ulna is the upper-extremity bone injured most frequently. Imaging plays a key role in the diagnosis and management of stress injuries. Plain radiography is useful when positive, but generally has low sensitivity. Radionuclide bone scanning is highly sensitive, but lacks specificity and the ability to directly visualize fracture lines. In this article, we focus on magnetic resonance imaging, which provides highly sensitive and specific evaluation for bone marrow edema, periosteal reaction as well as detection of subtle fracture lines."}
{"id": "17387642", "title": "MR imaging of trauma: elbow and wrist.", "content": "MR imaging of trauma: elbow and wrist. The use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the setting of acute trauma is increasing due to many factors including availability and demand. The ability to evaluate for occult fractures in addition to concomitant soft tissue injuries has a significant impact on patient management and MRI is the ideal adjunct to plain radiography. Occult fractures in the forearm, particularly the radial head and scaphoid, are common and often lead to repeated examinations and delayed diagnosis, which can be avoided by the use of MRI early in patient investigation. Orthopedists are increasingly performing ligament repairs at the time of fracture fixation and therefore benefit from preoperative MRI to assess the extent of soft tissue injury."}
{"id": "17354814", "title": "Ultrasound-guided percutaneous scaphoid pinning: operator variability and comparison with traditional fluoroscopic procedure.", "content": "Ultrasound-guided percutaneous scaphoid pinning: operator variability and comparison with traditional fluoroscopic procedure. This paper reports on pilot laboratory experiments with a recently proposed surgical procedure for percutaneous screw insertion into fractured scaphoid bones using ultrasound guidance. The experiments were intended to determine the operator variability of the procedure and its performance in comparison with a traditional pinning procedure using fluoroscopy. In the proposed procedure, a three-dimensional surface model is created from pre-operative computed tomography images and intra-operatively registered to the patient using ultrasound images. A graphical interface that communicates with an optical camera tracking the surgical tools, guides the surgeon during the procedure in real time. The results of the experiments revealed non-significant differences between operators for the error in the entry location of the drill hole (p=0.90); however, significant differences for the exit location (p<0.05). Comparison with the traditional pinning procedure shows that the outcome of the recently proposed procedure appears to be more consistent."}
{"id": "17219705", "title": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "17144953", "title": "Navicular stress fractures: a prospective study on athletes.", "content": "Navicular stress fractures: a prospective study on athletes. Navicular stress fractures of the foot often are difficult to diagnose and treat. Nineteen athletic patients seen from 1999 to 2003, were compared to a previously treated group of 22 athletes with similar injuries treated from 1994 to 1998. Based on the frontal plane CT images, a previously described classification system was used to assess the injury: type I dorsal cortical break; type II fracture extending into the navicular body; and type III fracture breaches two cortices. Nonoperative treatment was recommended for patients with type I injuries and open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) were recommended for those with type II and III injuries. The time to return to activity and ability to return to competition were assessed, along with differences between fracture type and gender. Return to activity (RTA) was 4.0 months for the entire group. RTA for type I (four injuries), type II (eight injuries), and type III (seven injuries) was 3.8, 3.7, and 4.2 months, respectively. Fifteen of 16 competitive athletes returned to full competition, including all who had ORIF. Navicular stress fractures can take 4 months to heal with nonoperative or operative treatment. Surgery should be considered for more severe injuries, which can be assessed by CT scan."}
{"id": "17142420", "title": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fracture displacement with radiography and computed tomography.", "content": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fracture displacement with radiography and computed tomography. Displacement is an important risk factor for nonunion of scaphoid wrist fractures. We compared computed tomography with radiographs with regard to their ability to detect displacement. Six blinded observers rated thirty scaphoid fractures (ten displaced and twenty nondisplaced) with use of radiographs and computed tomography. The radiographs were evaluated separately from the computed tomography scans and then, in a third evaluation, the two imaging studies were reviewed simultaneously. The evaluations were repeated four weeks later. Observers were asked to evaluate specific measures of fracture displacement and then to judge the fracture as being displaced or nondisplaced. Intraobserver reliability was better for computed tomography alone and the combination of radiographs and computed tomography than it was for radiographs alone (kappa values, 0.65, 0.63, and 0.54, respectively; all p<0.001). The interobserver reliability was also better for computed tomography alone and the combination of radiographs and computed tomography than it was for radiographs alone (kappa values, 0.43, 0.48, and 0.27, respectively; all p<0.001). The average sensitivity was 75% for radiographs alone, 72% for computed tomography alone, and 80% for both; the average specificity was 64%, 80%, and 73%, respectively; the average accuracy was 68%, 77%, and 75%, respectively. The positive predictive values (assuming a 5% prevalence of fracture displacement) were low (0.10, 0.13, and 0.16) and the negative predictive values were high (0.97, 0.98, and 0.99) for the radiographs, computed tomography, and combined modality. Computed tomography improves the reliability of detecting scaphoid fracture displacement but has a more limited effect on accuracy, which remains <80%. The utility of computed tomography scans for diagnosing scaphoid fracture displacement is affected by the low prevalence of fracture displacement. This study suggests that computed tomography scans are useful for ruling out displacement but not for diagnosing it. We recommend that all scaphoid fractures be evaluated with computed tomography in order to rule out displacement."}
{"id": "17114536", "title": "An international survey of hospital practice in the imaging of acute scaphoid trauma.", "content": "An international survey of hospital practice in the imaging of acute scaphoid trauma. Scaphoid fractures are relatively common. If not treated promptly there may be risk of long-term disability. However, unnecessary wrist immobilization is inconvenient and may hinder professional activities. Therefore, early accurate diagnosis is essential. Currently, the American College of Radiology deems MRI and radiographs as the most appropriate investigations in imaging acute scaphoid trauma. Our objective was to assess scaphoid imaging protocols. To assess scaphoid imaging protocols, an international survey of imaging practice was performed. Two hundred hospitals worldwide were sent a survey regarding their scaphoid trauma imaging protocols. Only replies from hospitals that had full CT, MRI, and scintigraphy facilities were accepted. Data were obtained from 105 hospitals, of which 23 had fixed protocols. The number of scaphoid radiographic views varied from two to six. Before second-line investigations were initiated, repeat radiographs were usually performed in 76 of the 105 hospitals. In 29 hospitals, other imaging techniques were used without further radiography. The usual second-line investigation was MRI in 31/105, CT in 19/105, and scintigraphy in 14/105. Further protocols included CT or MRI in 10/105, CT or scintigraphy in 6/105, scintigraphy or MRI in 6/105, CT then MRI (if CT was negative) in 1/105, both CT and scintigraphy in 1/105, and scintigraphy then CT (if positive) in 1/105. There was equal preference among MRI, CT, and scintigraphy in 10/105 centers, and clinical examination and radiographs were used alone in 6/105. The survey reveals marked inconsistency in the imaging of acute scaphoid injury. Although other factors may have played a role, limited scientific evidence regarding the ideal imaging in acute scaphoid trauma may be the root of this inconsistency."}
{"id": "17099528", "title": "Scaphoid nonunion treated with vascular bone grafts pedicled on the dorsal supra-retinacular artery of the distal radius.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunion treated with vascular bone grafts pedicled on the dorsal supra-retinacular artery of the distal radius. Nonunion and avascular necrosis (AVN) are frequent complications of scaphoid fractures. We describe the operative technique and long-term results of treatment with pedicle vascularized bone grafts (VBGs) of the distal radius in patients with scaphoid fractures in whom nonunion and AVN developed. During a 4-year period (1997-2000), VBGs pedicled on either the first and second or second and third compartments of the supraretinacular artery of the distal radius were in our hospital used to treat 11 patients with symptomatic scaphoid nonunion involving AVN of the proximal fragment (one with perilunate transscaphoid fracture dislocation and 10 with displaced scaphoid fractures with nonunion). Nine of these 11 patients received fixation with divergent K-wires fixation and two received Herbert screws fixation. Osseous union was achieved in all 11 patients treated with VBGs within an average period of 13 weeks. Functional results of treatment, which were measured using the modified Mayo Wrist Score, were encouraging in all patients in this series (four excellent, six good, and one fair). The deformity of ununited scaphoid was well corrected. The index study suggests that this treatment can be used not only to revascularize necrotic scaphoid, but also to correct humpback deformity and the resulting carpal instability."}
{"id": "17097470", "title": "Carpal fractures excluding the scaphoid.", "content": "Carpal fractures excluding the scaphoid. Although carpal fractures other than of the scaphoid are uncommon, vigilance in diagnosing these potentially serious fractures is paramount to early and effective treatment. Physical examination and standard plain radiographs may reveal only subtle findings. Use of special radiographic views and computed tomography may help elucidate the diagnosis. Treatment is particular to each fracture. Nondisplaced fractures should be treated nonoperatively. For intra-articular carpal bone fractures, virtually any amount of displacement is unacceptable and requires reduction and fixation. This article organizes current knowledge of these potentially difficult fractures, with a table of diagnosis and treatment guidelines."}
{"id": "17080532", "title": "Simultaneous fractures of distal and proximal phalanges of the thumb, trapezium and carpal scaphoid of the ipsilateral hand: a case of very unusual combination of fractures.", "content": "Simultaneous fractures of distal and proximal phalanges of the thumb, trapezium and carpal scaphoid of the ipsilateral hand: a case of very unusual combination of fractures. Simultaneous multiple injuries of the thumb ray are rare. An unusual case of a simultaneous fracture of proximal and distal phalanges, trapezium and scaphoid is reported. The patient had an acceptable result six months after injury. This type of injury of the thumb ray may be a specific form of injury pattern caused by the mobile phone."}
{"id": "17049527", "title": "The management of wrist injuries: an international perspective.", "content": "The management of wrist injuries: an international perspective. Wrist injury is common and may significantly impair the overall function of the upper extremity unless properly managed. Fractures of the distal radius are particularly common among the aging population, accounting for nearly 1/6 of all fractures, often as a result of increased longevity with the subsequent underlying osteoporosis. New diagnostic tools, including wrist arthroscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, or computed tomography, are increasingly available in developed countries allowing accurate recognition and more effective resolution of lesions which would be otherwise missed using conventional methods. First world treatment standards, however, can scarcely be introduced in developing countries owing to, among other factors, different prevalence of problems, and the lack of resource to implement most modern technologies. If any program needs to be introduced that meets the demands of wrist injury management in the third world, aside from a better regionalisation of trauma care, it should emphasise adequate training of professionals in the use of more cost effective techniques of fracture reduction and stabilisation, applicable everywhere, with the minimum possible morbidity."}
{"id": "17009820", "title": "Pilot study evaluating a clinical decision tool on suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Pilot study evaluating a clinical decision tool on suspected scaphoid fractures. In an earlier study we have proposed a scaphoid decision-protocol in order to improve diagnostic accuracy in case of suspected scaphoid fractures. This pilot study evaluated this protocol. In this pilot study (n = 31) most cases with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fractures reached a positive test result on the combined 7 clinical tests (93.5%). Using this test combination, no scaphoid fractures were missed (no false-negatives; sensitivity 100%), but it also included many patients with no scaphoid fracture. Many of these, however, were found to have another fracture. In total, 48% had a scaphoid fracture, 19% another fracture and 32% no fracture. In the pilot study the proposed protocol seems to be a safe protocol, without missing scaphoid fractures. It leads to a reduction of unnecessary plaster casting of sprained wrists and produces a marked reduction in plain radiographic examinations."}
{"id": "17009819", "title": "Development of a clinical decision tool for suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Development of a clinical decision tool for suspected scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fractures are the most common carpal fractures; their overall incidence is however low. Missing a scaphoid fracture may lead to a non-union with a possible disastrous outcome for the patient; for this reason, treatment of a suspected scaphoid fracture, even without a proven fracture on the first radiograph, has been conservative with plaster treatment. There are many clinical tests developed to diagnose a scaphoid fracture. However not all tests are equally practical, and their sensitivity and specificity are not always known, or are very low. In this study 18 clinical tests were evaluated and a subset of 7 tests remained, which were found to be practical and/or had a high enough sensitivity. A clinical decision protocol was developed using a combination of these seven tests, in order to improve diagnostic accuracy and at the same time reduce unnecessary plaster cast treatment of patients with a suspected scaphoid, who turn out to only have a sprained wrist."}
{"id": "17002863", "title": "Comments on: Role of bone scintigraphy.", "content": "Comments on: Role of bone scintigraphy."}
{"id": "16998425", "title": "Ultrasonographic examination for inversion ankle sprains associated with osseous injuries.", "content": "Ultrasonographic examination for inversion ankle sprains associated with osseous injuries. The study attempted to evaluate the value of ultrasonography in determining the therapeutic strategy for patients with osseous injuries caused by ankle sprains. A 10-MHz compact linear-array ultrasound transducer was used to assess patients with inversion ankle sprains. Eleven female and 12 male patients who had fractures detected by sonograms were included in the study. All 23 patients underwent radiographic examination for identification of fractures. Bone scintigraphy was performed for those who had negative x-ray findings. Eighteen patients had distal fibular tip fractures, three patients had the fifth metatarsal base fractures, one patient had a talar neck fracture, and one patient had a navicular fracture. These fractures were all detected by ultrasonography and then proved even by radiography or by bone scans. All the 23 patients had anterior talofibular ligament injuries. Among these patients, 11 had anterior ankle-joint recess effusion, and two had additional anterioinferior tibiofibular ligament injuries. Six weeks of immobilization with the ankle fracture brace was prescribed for all the patients after the identification of fractures. Their ankle pain symptoms soon improved. Ultrasonography is valuable in evaluating tiny foot and ankle fractures and coexistent soft tissue injuries. It can guide the treatment for patients with osseous injuries caused by ankle sprains."}
{"id": "16979801", "title": "Locking of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb caused by a fracture fragment of the radial condyle of the metacarpal head after dorsal dislocation.", "content": "Locking of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb caused by a fracture fragment of the radial condyle of the metacarpal head after dorsal dislocation. We report a case of a locked thumb metacarpophalangeal joint secondary to metacarpal head fracture. As fractures of the radial condyle are not readily seen in routine X-rays, other imaging modalities, including CT, should be considered if the patient complains of limited extension after hyperextension injury of the thumb."}
{"id": "16954942", "title": "Increased radiodensity of the proximal pole of the scaphoid: a common finding in computed tomography imaging of the wrist.", "content": "Increased radiodensity of the proximal pole of the scaphoid: a common finding in computed tomography imaging of the wrist. To determine whether the proximal pole (PP) of the scaphoid is denser than the distal pole (DP) in a diverse population of patients undergoing computed tomography (CT) imaging of the wrist. Sixty-nine patients who had CT of the wrist were retrospective reviewed. We measured CT density of the medullary bone of PP and DP of the scaphoid and calculated PP/DP ratio. To evaluate the variability of PP/DP ratio, we compared the ratios of these 3 groups. These patients were separated into 3 groups based on their diagnoses: group 1, healed scaphoids treated by casting; group 2, scaphoid nonunions; group 3, intact scaphoids. Proximal pole was denser than DP in most subjects. Proximal pole/distal pole ratio was similar among groups (P < 0.05). Fracture healing, sex, and age did not affect this ratio. However, we did not study scaphoids with avascular necrosis. Proximal pole was denser than DP in most of our subjects, including those with intact scaphoids, healing scaphoid fractures, and nonunions."}
{"id": "16948584", "title": "Use of magnetic resonance imaging to diagnose distal sesamoid bone injury in a horse.", "content": "Use of magnetic resonance imaging to diagnose distal sesamoid bone injury in a horse. A 5-year-old Appaloosa mare was examined for severe left forelimb lameness of 4 months' duration. Lameness was evident at the walk and trot and was exacerbated when the horse circled to the left. Signs of pain were elicited in response to hoof testers placed over the frog of the left front hoof, and a palmar digital nerve block eliminated the lameness. Radiographs revealed no abnormalities, but magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed increased bone density in the medullary cavity of the distal sesamoid (navicular) bone in the proton density and T2-weighted images and a defect in the fibrocartilage and subchondral bone of the flexor cortex. Because of the absence of improvement after 4 months and the poor prognosis for return to soundness, the mare was euthanatized. An adhesion between the deep digital flexor tendon and the flexor cortex defect on the navicular bone was grossly evident, and histologic evaluation revealed diffuse replacement of marrow trabecular bone with compact lamellar bone. Changes were consistent with blunt traumatic injury to the navicular bone that resulted in bone proliferation in the medullary cavity. Use of MRI enabled detection of changes that were not radiographically evident and enabled accurate diagnosis of the cause of lameness. Navicular bone injury may occur without fracture and should be considered as a differential diagnosis in horses with an acute onset of severe unilateral forelimb lameness originating from the heel portion of the foot."}
{"id": "16934205", "title": "Treatment of acute scaphoid fractures in the athlete.", "content": "Treatment of acute scaphoid fractures in the athlete. Scaphoid fractures in athletes can be very disabling and may limit successful and early return to play. Typically, the mechanism of injury is a fall onto an outstretched hand or a direct blow; the patient will present with swelling, limited motion, and snuffbox tenderness. Multiple-view plain images will very often reveal the diagnosis. In addition, diagnostic modalities such as CT scanning and MRI are helpful in better defining the architecture of the fracture and vascularity of the scaphoid, and diagnosing occult fractures. Early and accurate diagnosis is critical to help ensure appropriate treatment and optimal outcome. Traditional treatment of stable nondisplaced fractures remains cast immobilization. However, if early return to play is desired operative fixation may be warranted. For nondisplaced fractures operative techniques include open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF), and percutaneous fixation through a dorsal or volar approach. Arthroscopy can be used as an adjunct to the percutaneous technique. For displaced fractures, the preferred technique remains ORIF through either a volar or dorsal approach. Considerations in treatment type are based on the stability and location of the fracture as well as patient issues such as compliance and the need for return to play. With appropriate diagnosis and individualization of treatment, scaphoid fractures can be successfully managed in most athletes with few or no long-term sequelae."}
{"id": "16903156", "title": "Midfoot fractures.", "content": "Midfoot fractures. Fractures of the midfoot are uncommon because of the constrained configuration of multiple articular surfaces, which is augmented by capsular attachments and strong ligaments and tendons. Injury patterns usually involve more than one structure, although isolated fractures, dislocations, and sprains can occur. The key to optimal treatment of midfoot fractures is a high index of clinical suspicion because of their rareness. The traumatic midfoot injuries described in this article are categorized as Chopart joint injuries, tarsal scaphoid fractures, cuboid fractures, cuneiform fractures, and Lisfranc joint injuries."}
{"id": "16897211", "title": "Scaphoid fractures and nonunions: diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures and nonunions: diagnosis and treatment. Scaphoid fractures are commonly seen in orthopedic practice. An organized and thoughtful approach to diagnosis and treatment can facilitate good outcomes. However, despite optimal treatment, complications may ensue. In the setting of nonunion or an avascular proximal pole, vascularized bone grafting may be needed. In this article we review the literature regarding these injuries and describe an approach to diagnosis, treatment, and management of scaphoid fractures and nonunions. Scaphoid fractures and nonunions may present as challenging problems in practice, but a systematic and deliberate approach can facilitate optimal results."}
{"id": "16865353", "title": "[Scaphoid fracture and nonunion: current status of radiological diagnostics].", "content": "[Scaphoid fracture and nonunion: current status of radiological diagnostics]. Scaphoid fractures, which involve approximately two-thirds of all wrist injuries, are often not detected during initial radiographic examination. By using high-resolution CT and dedicated MRI, it is possible to recognize scaphoid fractures soon at the first diagnostic approach and to assess fragment stability. CT imaging provides all the relevant information of the fracture extent and of the fracture healing in the follow-up. MRI is most sensitive in the detection of scaphoid fractures; however, fracture signs must be differentiated from those of a bone bruise. Both the initially overseen scaphoid fracture and the unsuccessful healing can lead to the natural history of scaphoid nonunion. In the injured scaphoid, CT imaging is essential for depicting the osseous morphology, whereas contrast-enhanced MRI is crucial for assessing the viability of the proximal fragment."}
{"id": "16843167", "title": "Correction of malunited intra-articular distal radius fractures with an inside-out osteotomy technique.", "content": "Correction of malunited intra-articular distal radius fractures with an inside-out osteotomy technique. To present an inside-out osteotomy technique under arthroscopic guidance to correct an intra-articular malunion. The joint is explored with a 2.7-mm arthroscope through the standard portals without infusing any water. To allow room to introduce the curettes and the osteotomes (4-mm wide), the instrumentation portals are made slightly larger than usual. Malunited fragments are cut with the osteotomes from inside the joint and advanced out. Fragments are mobilized, and granulating tissue and/or new bone is removed with curettes and synoviotomes. After disimpaction and reduction, fixation with plates or screws via the appropriate open approach is performed under arthroscopic control. No water is used throughout the procedure except at the end of the surgery to clear out debris. Steps were corrected to 0 mm in all patients. Gaps of less than 1 mm were common. This procedure allows us to define each cartilage-containing fragment and to re-create the original articular fracture line without the fear of creating new fracture lines on the articular surface. This technique can be used for patients with irregularly defined fragments that are not amenable to classic techniques. The key to the procedure is to perform the arthroscopic exploration without water infusion (dry technique)."}
{"id": "16843146", "title": "The volar extension of the lunate facet of the distal radius: a quantitative anatomic study.", "content": "The volar extension of the lunate facet of the distal radius: a quantitative anatomic study. To describe quantitatively the protrusion of the volar part of the lunate facet of the distal radius articular surface anterior to the volar metaphyseal cortex, which is susceptible to fracture and can be difficult to control with plates and screws alone. Quantitative anatomic measurements of 48 3-dimensional computed tomography scans of the distal radius were analyzed to quantify the anatomy of the volar part of the lunate facet of the distal radius. The measurements were scaled to account for overall bone size. Male and female anatomies were compared. The height and width of the volar extension of the lunate facet were 3 +/- 1 mm and 19 +/- 4 mm, respectively. The mean height of the lunate facet was 19 +/- 3 mm. An average of 16% of the lunate facet projects anterior to the flat volar surface of the distal radius. The thickness of the volar extension of the lunate facet averaged 5 +/- 1 mm. There were no statistically significant differences between men and women for any of the scaled measurements. The observation that the volar lunate facet projects approximately 3 mm (or 16% of the dorsal-volar height of the lunate facet) anterior to the flat volar surface of the distal radius and is approximately 5 mm thick helps explain its relative vulnerability to injury and the difficulty encountered when trying to secure it with a plate and screws."}
{"id": "16841767", "title": "Osteoid osteoma of the upper extremity. A diagnostic challenge.", "content": "Osteoid osteoma of the upper extremity. A diagnostic challenge. Osteoid osteomas are benign tumors that may commonly mimic other entities in the upper extremity. The purpose of this study is to describe the clinical and imaging features of osteoid osteomas involving the upper extremity, highlight the difficulties in the diagnosis in the various areas and propose a diagnostic workup. Fourty-eight patients with histologically confirmed osteoid osteoma of the upper extremity treated at the authors' department from 1985 to 2000 were retrospectively reviewed. Data pertinent on the patients' history, lesion location, clinical and imaging characteristics as well as any unique features of individual patients were collected. There were 29 males and 19 females with a mean age of 28 years (range 20-42). The average duration of symptoms before definite diagnosis was 18 months (range 2-62). Pain was the presenting symptom in 46 of 48 patients, whereas swelling was the main complaint in 2 of the patients. Mean pre-operative visual analogue pain scale (VAS), was 8.8 ranging from 5.1 to 9.3. Eight lesions were located in the humerus, 4 in the ulna and 7 in the radius. In the carpal bones, 4 were located in the scaphoid, 4 in the capitate and 5 in the hamate. Seven lesions were located at the metacarpals and 9 lesions at the phalanges (5 proximal, no middle and 4 distal phalangeal lesions). Radiographs alone were sufficient to establish the diagnosis of osteoid osteoma in 32 cases. Bone scans identified a \"hot spot\" in 16 patients without previous radiographic evidence of a lesion and furthermore, computed tomography was performed in 32 patients to assist in the intraosseous localization of the lesion, and in the pre-operative planning. All patients underwent operative excision of the lesion and the diagnosis was confirmed by histology. Mean follow-up was 28 months (range 25-42). Fourty-three patients had an uneventful recovery. Mean post-operative VAS value was 1.8 ranging from 0 to 3. Osteoid osteoma of the upper extremity often mimics other etiologies and the complex anatomy of the upper extremity, as well as the tendency of patients to relate their symptoms to trauma are factors that easily lead to misdiagnosis or delay in the diagnosis. A high index of suspicion is essential and the diagnosis is based on an accurate clinical assessment and careful selection of imaging studies."}
{"id": "16798142", "title": "Imaging of sports injuries of the upper extremity in children.", "content": "Imaging of sports injuries of the upper extremity in children. Competitive athletics in school-aged children has become the norm rather than the exception. The increased repetitive stresses placed on the upper extremity in a wide variety of sports result in a host of injuries unique to the skeletally immature athlete. This article focuses on a discussion of the more common upper extremity injuries encountered in the child athlete and the role of radiography and MRI in diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "16798139", "title": "Imaging of upper extremity stress fractures in the athlete.", "content": "Imaging of upper extremity stress fractures in the athlete. Although it is much less common than injuries in the lower extremities, an upper extremity stress injury can have a significant impact on an athlete. If an accurate and timely diagnosis is to be made, the clinician must have a high index of suspicion of a stress fracture in any athlete who is involved in a throwing, weightlifting, or upper extremity weight-bearing sport and presents with chronic pain in the upper extremity. Imaging should play an integral role in the work-up of these patients; if initial radiographs are unrevealing, further cross-sectional imaging should be strongly considered. Although a three-phase bone scan is highly sensitive in this regard, MRI has become the study of choice at most centers."}
{"id": "16798135", "title": "Sports-related injuries of the wrist: an approach to MRI interpretation.", "content": "Sports-related injuries of the wrist: an approach to MRI interpretation. Sports-related injuries to the wrist range from minor sprains to severe soft tissue disruption that can pose a risk to the normal function of the upper extremity. It is important to identify the specific nature of such injuries so as to establish an accurate diagnosis and deliver appropriate treatment. MRI of the wrist has greatly benefited from the use of dedicated surface coils, which allow fine depiction of soft tissue and cartilaginous structures. A review of the normal anatomy, MR interpretation pitfalls, and most common abnormalities of the tendons, ligaments, triangular fibrocartilage complex, and nerves of the wrist are presented."}
{"id": "16793977", "title": "Occult scaphoid fractures: comparison of multidetector CT and MR imaging--initial experience.", "content": "Occult scaphoid fractures: comparison of multidetector CT and MR imaging--initial experience. To compare the diagnostic performance of multidetector computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in patients clinically suspected of having a scaphoid fracture and who had normal initial radiographs, with radiographs obtained 6 weeks after trauma as the reference standard. The ethics committee approved the study, and all patients gave written informed consent. Twenty-nine patients (17 male, 12 female; age range, 17-62 years; mean age, 34 years +/- 13) underwent multidetector CT and MR imaging within 6 days after trauma. CT data were obtained with 0.5-mm collimation. For image review, 0.7-mm-thick multiplanar reformations were performed in transverse, coronal, and sagittal planes relative to the wrist. The 1.0-T MR examination consisted of coronal and transverse short inversion time inversion-recovery, coronal and transverse T1-weighted spin-echo, and coronal volume-rendered T2-weighted gradient-echo sequences. Two radiologists analyzed the CT and MR images. A binomial test was used to evaluate the significance of the differences between MR imaging and CT in detection of scaphoid fractures and cortical involvement (P < .05). The 6-week follow-up radiographs depicted a scaphoid fracture in 11 (38%) patients. Eight patients had a cortical fracture, while three patients had only a bandlike lucency within the trabecular portion of the scaphoid. MR imaging depicted all 11 fractures but only three [corrected] cortical fractures. Multidetector CT depicted all eight cortical fractures but failed to depict trabecular fractures. No false-positive fractures were seen on MR or CT images. Differences between MR imaging and CT were not significant for the detection of scaphoid fractures (P = .25) but were significant for cortical involvement (P = .03). Multidetector CT is highly accurate in depicting occult cortical scaphoid fractures but appears inferior to MR imaging in depicting solely trabecular injury. MR imaging is inferior to multidetector CT in depicting cortical involvement."}
{"id": "16761890", "title": "Scaphoid fracture detection in a military population: a standardized approach for medical referral.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture detection in a military population: a standardized approach for medical referral. The objective was to test, refine, and implement an algorithm for early detection and referral of clinical scaphoid fractures by U.S. Army medical personnel. Our goal was to reduce complications resulting from delayed diagnosis and to improve outcomes affecting soldier health and unit readiness. Data on scaphoid fractures treated in the orthopedic department at Tripler Army Medical Center were collected from January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2003. Demographic variables included gender, age, and military rank. The incidence of scaphoid fractures in our population was 43 cases per 100,000 personnel per year. An algorithm to guide nonorthopedic providers was developed after review of the medical literature. We present an algorithm-based approach to soldiers presenting with post-traumatic wrist pain. The algorithm was fashioned with the aim of reducing complications and poor outcomes associated with delayed diagnosis of scaphoid fractures, affecting soldier health and unit readiness. A prospective study of the algorithm is underway."}
{"id": "16716469", "title": "Diagnostic strategy for suspected scaphoid fractures in the presence of other fractures in the carpal region.", "content": "Diagnostic strategy for suspected scaphoid fractures in the presence of other fractures in the carpal region. Bone scintigraphy will identify up to 25% of occult scaphoid bone fractures after negative scaphoid X-rays. Consequently, it deserves a place in the diagnostic process of suspected scaphoid fractures. However, the role of bone scintigraphy is less clear if scaphoid X-rays show other fractures in the carpal region. We analysed 111 consecutive patients with a suspected scaphoid fracture on physical examination. Scaphoid X-rays revealed 61 fractures. Fifty-five patients had scaphoid fractures only and six patients had other fractures in the carpal region but no scaphoid fracture. In 50 cases, no bone injury was seen on these X-rays. In three out of the six patients with other fractures in the carpal region, bone scintigraphy revealed four occult concomitant fractures: one scaphoid, one scaphoid and trapezial and one capitate fracture. In conclusion, bone scintigraphy is required when scaphoid X-rays do not confirm a suspected scaphoid fracture, even in the presence of other fractures in the carpal region."}
{"id": "16709680", "title": "Carpal box and open cup radiography.", "content": "Carpal box and open cup radiography."}
{"id": "16647649", "title": "The role of imaging of work-related upper extremity disorders.", "content": "The role of imaging of work-related upper extremity disorders. Work-related upper extremity disorders can pose a diagnostic and management challenge because the nontraumatic disorders that are often believed to be caused by repetitive work activities can and do occur without any apparent provoking activity and can be caused or associated with many systemic medical conditions. One mainstay in the assessment of hand and arm disorders remains imaging. Imaging capabilities have made incredible advances with the advent of MRI, CT, ultrasound, bone scan, and numerous technologies that enable clinicians to view fine details of anatomy and pathology. This article reviews the potential imaging choices and clinical indications for work-related injuries of the elbow, hand, and wrist."}
{"id": "16628118", "title": "Uses and abuses of wrist arthroscopy.", "content": "Uses and abuses of wrist arthroscopy. The use of wrist arthroscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of carpal pathology continues to expand. The purpose of this paper is to summarize recent advances in the utility of this diagnostic, therapeutic, and research tool. The indications for wrist arthroscopy are growing with the description of volar portals for the radiocarpal and scaphotrapezial trapezoid joint. Arthroscopic assistance in the treatment of distal radius and scaphoid fractures is also becoming more feasible. Arthroscopic excision of dorsal carpal ganglions has met with considerable success. In addition, the application of electrothermal collagen shrinkage is an exciting new frontier in arthroscopic wrist procedures. Wrist arthroscopy has evolved to be an essential diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the armamentarium of every surgeon treating disorders of the wrist."}
{"id": "16611725", "title": "Navicular stress fractures: outcomes of surgical and conservative management.", "content": "Navicular stress fractures: outcomes of surgical and conservative management. To compare the long term outcomes of the two treatment options for navicular stress fractures: non-weightbearing cast immobilisation and surgical fixation. Retrospective case study. Subjects aged 18 years and older who had been treated for a navicular stress fracture more than two years previously. Questionnaire based analogue pain score and function score; tenderness on palpation; abnormality detected on computed tomography (CT). In all, 32 fractures in 26 subjects were investigated. No significant differences were found between surgical and conservative management for current pain (p = 0.984), current function (p = 0.170), or abnormality on CT (p = 0.173). However, surgically treated patients more often remained tender over the \"N spot\" (p = 0.005), even after returning to competition for two years or more. Surgical fixation of navicular stress fractures appears to be as effective as conservative management over the longer term. However, there remains a small but measurable degree of pain and loss of function over this period. The value of using \"N spot\" tenderness as the sole clinical predictor of treatment success requires further investigation, as some patients remained tender despite successful completion of treatment and return to competition."}
{"id": "16570175", "title": "Flexor carpi radialis tendinopathy: spectrum of imaging findings and association with triscaphe arthritis.", "content": "Flexor carpi radialis tendinopathy: spectrum of imaging findings and association with triscaphe arthritis. To present the spectrum of pathology affecting the flexor carpi radialis (FCR), and its anatomical, functional and clinical relationship with conditions affecting the triscaphe or scapho-trapezium-trapezoid (STT) compartment, and particularly osteoarthritis. The study comprised two men and four women aged between 23 and 79 years (mean age, 49 years). Two musculoskeletal radiologists in consensus evaluated MRI findings. Five of the patients showed evidence of triscaphe osteoarthritis. One of the patients showed synovitis and reactive marrow edema at the triscaphe joint without more specific findings of osteoarthritis. Five patients showed evidence of FCR tenosynovitis. Partial-thickness tears were noted in three patients. Two patients showed complete discontinuity of the FCR; one of them had undergone prior tendon harvesting for interposition arthroplasty after trapezectomy. One patient showed a ganglion cyst in connection to the FCR tendon sheath. The FCR tendon courses over the volar surfaces of the scaphoid and trapezium in a separate fibro-osseous tunnel. This anatomical and functional relationship explains the coexistence of FCR tendinopathy and STT arthritis demonstrated by MR imaging."}
{"id": "16547997", "title": "Sonographic evaluation of scapholunate ligament: value of tissue harmonic imaging.", "content": "Sonographic evaluation of scapholunate ligament: value of tissue harmonic imaging. The aim of this study was to compare tissue harmonic imaging (THI) and conventional (fundamental) sonography in the evaluation of the scapholunate ligament (SLL). The bilateral SLL of 3 patients with unilateral SLL rupture and the bilateral SLL of 20 volunteers without history of trauma were examined. THI findings were compared with conventional sonographic findings. On conventional sonographic evaluation of 43 normal wrists, the dorsal component of the SLL was partially visible in 10 of the 43 normal wrists (23%) and was completely visible in 33 of 43 (77%) normal wrists. Using THI, the SLL was visible in its entirety in 39 of 43 normal wrists (91%) and was partially visible in 4 of 43 normal wrists (9%). The mean scapholunate distance was 3.3 mm (range, 2.9-4.5 mm) in normal wrists. THI improved visualization of SLL continuity and demonstration of its fibrillar echotexture. In the 3 wrists with clinical and/or radiological evidence of SLL rupture, the SLL was not visible with conventional sonography nor THI; the mean scapholunate distance was 6.1 mm (range, 5.6-6.8 mm). THI improves visualization of the SLL."}
{"id": "16547750", "title": "Acute os styloideum injury in an elite athlete.", "content": "Acute os styloideum injury in an elite athlete. The os styloideum, an accessory carpal bone, may suffer injury during traumatic wrist flexion. The case described corresponds to an acute os styloideum injury in an elite athlete; a diagnosis made using high-resolution computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging permitted not only the identification of the anomaly and associated abnormalities but also ruled out more significant injury to the extensor carpi radialis brevis."}
{"id": "16516733", "title": "Vascularized bone grafts from the palmar radius for the treatment of waist nonunions of the scaphoid.", "content": "Vascularized bone grafts from the palmar radius for the treatment of waist nonunions of the scaphoid. With their intrinsic vascularity vascularized bone grafts provide an alternative solution to the challenging problem of scaphoid nonunions. The union rate (after imaging evaluation including magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) and functional outcome of using vascularized bone grafts pedicled on the palmar carpal epiphyseal artery for waist nonunions of the scaphoid are reported in this prospective case series. The technique was applied to 9 waist nonunions resulting from fractures. The mean time elapsed from the initial injury to the procedure was 22 months and the mean follow-up time was 24 months. The graft was pedicled on the artery running at the distal edge of the pronator quadratus and was inserted in the nonunion as an intercalary graft. Six patients had postoperative MRIs to evaluate fracture healing and graft incorporation. Union was accomplished in all cases between 6 and 12 weeks. Postoperative MRI showed the viability of the graft (contrast-enhanced images) and confirmed union and graft incorporation. Complete absence of pain was noted in all patients. The Mayo modified wrist score increased from 63 to 92 after surgery and according to this score results were excellent in 5 patients and good in 4. Vascularized bone grafts from the anterior radius lead to rapid union and consolidation in cases of waist nonunion. Postoperative MRI confirms viability of the graft, union, and graft incorporation. The approach is limited to the distal radius and wrist and lacks donor site morbidity. The interposition of the graft from the palmar side allows correction of the humpback deformity and patients regain carpal height, grip strength, and painless motion. Therapeutic, Level IV."}
{"id": "16506027", "title": "Osteogenic protein-1 (BMP-7) accelerates healing of scaphoid non-union with proximal pole sclerosis.", "content": "Osteogenic protein-1 (BMP-7) accelerates healing of scaphoid non-union with proximal pole sclerosis. We randomly assigned 17 patients with scaphoid non-union at the proximal pole to three treatment groups: (1) autologous iliac graft (n=6), (2) autologous iliac graft + osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1; n=6), and (3) allogenic iliac graft + OP-1 (n=5). Radiographic, scintigraphic, and clinical assessments were performed throughout the follow-up period of 24 months. OP-1 improved the performance of both autologous and allogenic bone implants and reduced radiographic healing time to 4 weeks compared with 9 weeks in group 1. Helical CT scans and scintigraphy showed that in OP-1-treated patients sclerotic bone was replaced by well-vascularised bone. The addition of OP-1 to allogenic bone implant equalised the clinical outcome with the autologous graft procedure. Consequently the harvesting of autologous graft can be avoided."}
{"id": "16504776", "title": "Scaphoid fracture in children.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture in children. Scaphoid fractures in children are uncommon. A high index of suspicion is required in children when clinical signs and symptoms indicate a scaphoid fracture in a child. Radiographic evaluation with multiple views should be performed to assess for fracture. If necessary, advanced imaging studies such as MRI should be performed. Most scaphoid fractures can be treated with cast immobilization, which results in healing in the vas majority of cases. Scaphoid nonunion is usually the result of delayed presentation or missed diagnosis. Fortunately union can be achieved reliably with cast immobilization or surgical fixation."}
{"id": "16487784", "title": "Pediatric upper extremity injuries.", "content": "Pediatric upper extremity injuries. The pediatric musculoskeletal system differs greatly from that of an adult. Although these differences diminish with age, they present unique injury patterns and challenges in the diagnosis and treatment of pediatric orthopedic problems."}
{"id": "16404125", "title": "\"Virtual unwrapping\" of a mummified hand.", "content": "\"Virtual unwrapping\" of a mummified hand. The purpose of this work is to demonstrate the feasibility of medical virtual reality technologies in the investigation of a mummified hand. The Ulster Museum obtained the mummy hand, which originated from Thebes, without any identifying information. The mummified hand was investigated using conventional X-ray and 3D multi-slice Computed Tomography (CT). Imaging revealed a range of fractures of the wrist, metacarpals and phalanges whilst 3D CT demonstrated internal structures using volume rendering. The absence of any features of bone healing at the fracture sites would imply that they occurred just prior to death or in the mummified state possibly during excavation. Conventional X-ray imaging indicated that the hand, although small, was likely to have originated from an adult. Medical imaging and virtual reality display will enable us to produce a rapid prototyped model using fused deposition technology. Therefore, further paleopathological research can be performed on the replica without the need to handle the original specimen."}
{"id": "16355281", "title": "Effects of sex and age on bone microstructure at the ultradistal radius: a population-based noninvasive in vivo assessment.", "content": "Effects of sex and age on bone microstructure at the ultradistal radius: a population-based noninvasive in vivo assessment. In a population-based cross-sectional study, we examined effects of sex and age on bone microstructure at the wrist using high-resolution 3-D pQCT. Compared with women, men had thicker trabeculae in young adulthood and had less microstructural damage with aging. These findings may contribute to the virtual immunity of men to age-related increases in wrist fractures. Although changes in bone microstructure contribute to fracture risk independently of BMD, it has not heretofore been possible to assess this noninvasively in population-based studies. We used high-resolution 3-D pQCT imaging (voxel size, 89 mum) to define, in a random sample of women (n = 324) and men (n = 278) 21-97 years of age, sex and age effects on bone microstructure at the wrist. Relative to young women (age, 20-29 years), young men had greater trabecular bone volume/tissue volume (BV/TV; by 26%, p = 0.001) and trabecular thickness (TbTh; by 28%, p < 0.001) but similar values for trabecular number (TbN) and trabecular separation (TbSp). Between ages 20 and 90 years, cross-sectional decreases in BV/TV were similar in women (-27%) and in men (-26%), but whereas women had significant decreases in TbN (-13%) and increases in TbSp (+24%), these parameters had little net change over life in men (+7% and -2% for TbN and TbSp, respectively; p < 0.001 versus women). However, TbTh decreased to a greater extent in men (-24%) than in women (-18%; p = 0.010 versus men). Whereas decreases with age in trabecular BV/TV are similar in men and women, the structural basis for the decrease in trabecular volume is quite different between the sexes. Thus, over life, women undergo loss of trabeculae with an increase in TbSp, whereas men begin young adult life with thicker trabeculae and primarily sustain trabecular thinning with no net change in TbN or TbSp. Because decreases in TbN have been shown to have a much greater impact on bone strength compared with decreases in TbTh, these findings may help explain the lower life-long risk of fractures in men, and specifically, their virtual immunity to age-related increases in distal forearm fractures."}
{"id": "16328449", "title": "Trapezium fracture associated with occult fracture of the proximal pole of the scaphoid.", "content": "Trapezium fracture associated with occult fracture of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. There has been no case of simultaneous fracture of the trapezium and the proximal pole of the scaphoid. We have treated a case with this combination. The fracture of the proximal pole of the scaphoid was only found on computed tomography imaging. We performed accurate reduction and fixation of both fractures with cannulated headless compression screws in a minimally invasive technique. We obtained rigid initial fixation and good clinical and radiographical results."}
{"id": "16324982", "title": "Upper extremity stress fractures.", "content": "Upper extremity stress fractures. Although less common than lower-extremity stress fractures, upper-extremity stress fractures are becoming recognized much more frequently. A majority of these fractures are caused by overuse and fatigue of the surrounding musculature and, as a result, may be prevented by appropriate training and conditioning. Diagnosis is made by history and physical examination with the aid of plain radiographs, bone scans, and MRI. Most of these fractures heal with a period of relative rest followed by a structured rehabilitation program. A small percentage of these fractures, however, may require surgical fixation. The present article reviews the different types of upper extremity and torso stress fractures seen in athletes, starting with the sternum and extending outward to the fingers. The presentation, diagnosis, mechanism of injury, treatment, prevention, and prognosis for each of these injuries will be discussed."}
{"id": "16270189", "title": "[Postoperative CT-controlled results of renewed osteosynthesis using screw fixation for acute scaphoid fractures].", "content": "[Postoperative CT-controlled results of renewed osteosynthesis using screw fixation for acute scaphoid fractures]. Currently screw fixation of the scaphoid is a well-established method to treat unstable scaphoid fractures. Between June 1995 and December 2000, 68 patients with an unstable acute scaphoid fracture were treated with screw fixation; 46 patients were reexamined on an average 35 months postoperatively. Range of motion and grip strength (Jamar dynamometer) were measured. The total data rating resulted from the Krimmer wrist score. The subjective results were evaluated with the DASH questionnaire. The average postoperative pain score was documented with a visual analogous pain scale from zero to 100 (VAS 0-100). X-rays as well as computed tomography were performed postoperatively. The average range of motion was 124 degrees for extension/flexion (92% of the opposite site), 57 degrees for radial/ulnarduction (=90%), and 177 degrees for pronation/supination (=98%). Postoperative strength was 47 kg (=90% of the opposite site). The postoperative pain score was 13 (0-100) after stress and 2 during resting conditions. Bony consolidation was reached in 44 cases. The Krimmer wrist score demonstrated a very good result in 39 cases, a good result in 5 cases, and a satisfactory result in 3 cases. The average DASH score was 8.3 points. The results demonstrate the reliability of internal screw fixation as treatment for acute scaphoid fractures. Functional results as well as subjective satisfaction of the patients are very good. Postoperative CT scans help to evaluate exact bony consolidation, position of the screw, and postoperative morphology of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "16361912", "title": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fracture with high-spatial-resolution sonography: a prospective blind study.", "content": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fracture with high-spatial-resolution sonography: a prospective blind study. Evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of high-spatial-resolution sonography (HSR-S) in occult scaphoid fractures. HSR-S was performed in 24 patients with clinically suspected fracture and normal radiographs. Three levels of clinical suspicion were considered (high, intermediate, and low). Three levels of sonographic suspicion were defined on the basis of cortical interruption, radiocarpal effusion, and scapho-trapezium-trapezoid effusion. Three positive criteria were interpreted as being highly indicative of fracture. Data from sonograms were compared with computed tomography (CT) scans. CT scanning demonstrated a fracture of the scaphoid in five patients. The global sensitivity of HSR-S for detection of occult scaphoid fracture was 100% and the specificity 79%. All patients with demonstrated occult fracture had a high sonography index of suspicion. A high sonography index of suspicion was correlated with 100% sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. HSR-S is a reliable, available, and cost-effective method in early diagnosis of occult fractures of the scaphoid. The presence of three defined criteria is required to assess the diagnosis."}
{"id": "16344175", "title": "Influence of distal radioulnar joint subluxation on restricted forearm rotation after distal radius fracture.", "content": "Influence of distal radioulnar joint subluxation on restricted forearm rotation after distal radius fracture. To analyze the influence of subluxation of the distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) on restricted forearm rotation after distal radius fracture. Twenty-two cases of healed unilateral distal radial fracture with restricted forearm rotation were included in the study. The subluxation of the DRUJ was evaluated using helical computed tomography scan at neutral, maximum pronation, and maximum supination and presented as the percent displacement of the ulnar head in both the injured and uninjured sides. The radiographic parameters of palmar tilt, radial inclination, dorsal shift, radial shift, and ulnar variance were measured on plain x-ray films and the rotational deformity of the distal radius was evaluated from the computed tomography scan. The differences of each radiographic parameter from the uninjured side were calculated. The relationships between the restricted forearm rotation and the percent displacement of the ulnar head and each of the radiographic parameters were analyzed statistically. When forearm pronation was restricted the ulnar head was located palmarly at neutral, maximum supination, and maximum pronation with severe dorsal tilt of the distal radius. When supination was restricted the ulnar head was located dorsally at maximum supination with severe ulnar-positive variance. The subluxation of the DRUJ was related to restricted forearm rotation. The radiographic parameters of palmar tilt and ulnar variance showed an adverse influence on the position of the ulnar head at the DRUJ, which might lead to restricted forearm rotation after distal radial fracture."}
{"id": "16344168", "title": "Patterns of carpal deformity in scaphoid nonunion: a 3-dimensional and quantitative analysis.", "content": "Patterns of carpal deformity in scaphoid nonunion: a 3-dimensional and quantitative analysis. To clarify quantitatively the 3-dimensional deformity of the carpus in scaphoid nonunion on the basis of fracture location. Three-dimensional computed tomography was used to examine 20 patients with scaphoid nonunion. Displacements of the distal and proximal fragments of the scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, and capitate were visualized and quantified using a 3-dimensional image-matching technology. Cases were categorized as distal fracture (16 cases) or proximal fracture (4 cases) based on the location of the fracture line relative to the dorsal apex of the scaphoid ridge where the dorsal scapholunate interosseous ligament is attached. The displayed distal scaphoid fractures showed that the proximal fragment of the scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum rotated into extension and supination. The distal fragment of the scaphoid and capitate translated dorsally without notable rotation. The deformity in proximal fractures was less remarkable than that in distal fractures. Most distal scaphoid nonunions had dorsal intercalated segment instability deformity patterns, whereas a dorsal intercalated segment instability occurred in only 1 case of a proximal fracture. Whether the fracture line passes distal or proximal to the dorsal apex of the scaphoid determines the subsequent carpal deformity. Dorsal translation of the distal fragment might be one of the factors in the development of degenerative change at the radial styloid."}
{"id": "16320659", "title": "[Distal fracture of the radius].", "content": "[Distal fracture of the radius]. The distal radius is the most common site of a fracture. The type of fracture presenting, stability/instability and concomitant injuries are the factors that determine whether the fracture should be treated conservatively or surgically. Possible sequelae include a dystrophy syndrome."}
{"id": "16318067", "title": "Diagnosis and management of scaphoid fractures: a literature review.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of scaphoid fractures: a literature review."}
{"id": "16256995", "title": "Corrective osteotomy for symptomatic scaphoid malunion.", "content": "Corrective osteotomy for symptomatic scaphoid malunion. A prospective study aimed at assessment of the outcome of management of symptomatic scaphoid malunion (hump-back deformity). The work included 13 scaphoid malunions in 13 patients. All patients complained of weak painful hand grip and limitation of wrist function. All cases were subjected to a corrective opening wedge scaphoid osteotomy with insertion of a trapezoid-shaped tricortical iliac bone graft. At the final assessment, after a mean follow-up period of 42 months, the achieved results were rated excellent in seven cases, good in four and fair in two according to the scoring system used. Objectively, the mean range of wrist motion and hand grip strength improved from 48% and 47% pre-operatively to 82% and 79% at the final assessment. Radiological parameters including height to length ratio, lateral intrascaphoid angle and dorsal cortical angle were also effectively improved. The intra-operative corrected carpal alignment has almost been maintained at the final follow-up. The procedure did not have serious drawbacks such as non-union or avascular necrosis and perhaps might delay the development of degenerative arthritis of the wrist."}
{"id": "16237135", "title": "Personal computer versus workstation display: observer performance in detection of wrist fractures on digital radiographs.", "content": "Personal computer versus workstation display: observer performance in detection of wrist fractures on digital radiographs. To retrospectively compare the accuracy of observer performance with personal computer (PC) compared with that with dedicated picture archiving and communication system (PACS) workstation display in the detection of wrist fractures on computed radiographs. This study was conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (2002 version) of the World Medical Association. The institutional clinical board approved the study; informed consent was not required. Seven observers independently assessed randomized anonymous digital radiographs of the wrist from 259 subjects; 146 had fractures, and 113 were healthy control subjects (151 male and 108 female subjects; average age, 33 years). Follow-up radiographs and/or computed tomographic scans were used as the reference standard for patients with fractures, and follow-up radiographs and/or clinical history data were used as the reference standard for controls. The PC was a standard hospital machine with a 17-inch (43-cm) color monitor with which Web browser display software was used. The PACS workstation had two portrait 21-inch (53-cm) monochrome monitors that displayed 2300 lines. The observers assigned scores to the radiographs on a scale of 1 (no fracture) to 5 (definite fracture). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were compared. The areas under the ROC curves were almost identical for the PC and workstation (0.910 vs 0.918, respectively; difference, 0.008; 95% confidence interval: -0.029, 0.013). The average sensitivity with the PC was almost identical to that with the workstation (85% vs 84%, respectively), as was the average specificity (82% vs 81%, respectively). The average accuracy (83%) was the same for both. The results of this study showed that there was no difference in accuracy of observer performance for detection of wrist fractures with a PC compared with that with a PACS workstation."}
{"id": "16203878", "title": "Should acute scaphoid fractures be fixed? A randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Should acute scaphoid fractures be fixed? A randomized controlled trial. With the proliferation of different fixation screws, there is an increasing trend to recommend early internal fixation of the broken scaphoid even if the fracture is not displaced. The benefits and risks of early fixation of scaphoid fractures have not been established. These were investigated in eighty-eight patients who were of working age with clearly defined minimally displaced or undisplaced bicortical fractures of the waist of the scaphoid. Patients who provided informed consent were randomized to treatment with early internal fixation with use of a Herbert screw without a cast (forty-four patients) or to nonoperative treatment for eight weeks with immobilization in a below-the-elbow plaster cast with the thumb left free (forty-four patients). The patients were evaluated at two, eight, twelve, twenty-six, and fifty-two weeks with respect to the severity of pain; tenderness; swelling; wrist movement; grip strength; and symptoms and disability, which were assessed with the Patient Evaluation Measure. In addition, radiographs were made and assessed at each visit. No difference was detected between the groups with respect to age, sex, hand dominance, side of injury, mechanism of injury, or the occupation of the patients. The range of motion, score on the Patient Evaluation Measure, and grip strength were significantly better in the group managed operatively than in the group managed nonoperatively at the eight-week follow-up evaluation, which corresponded with the visit when the cast was removed in that group. Patients returned to work at five to six weeks after the injury in both groups. At twelve weeks, grip strength was better in patients who had had surgery. No significant difference was detected between the two groups with respect to any other outcome measure at any other time. Ten of the forty-four fractures treated nonoperatively had not healed radiographically at twelve weeks, and, as a consequence, the treatment was altered. Complications occurred in thirteen patients who had been managed operatively. All complications were minor, and ten were related to the scar. This study did not demonstrate a clear overall benefit of early fixation of acute scaphoid fractures beyond the decrease in the rate of a change in treatment because of a delayed union at twelve weeks. Early internal fixation of minimally displaced or nondisplaced fractures of the scaphoid waist, which would heal in a cast, could lead to overtreatment of a large proportion of such fractures, exposing such patients to avoidable surgical risk. Thus, we have adopted a program of so-called aggressive conservative treatment, whereby we carefully assess fracture-healing with plain radiographs, and computed tomography scans if necessary, after six to eight weeks of cast immobilization and recommend surgical fixation with or without bone-grafting at that time if a gap is identified at the fracture site. Such an approach should result in fracture union in over 95% of such patients. Therapeutic Level I."}
{"id": "16187728", "title": "Posttraumatic osteonecrosis of a child's carpal scaphoid and carpal lunate.", "content": "Posttraumatic osteonecrosis of a child's carpal scaphoid and carpal lunate."}
{"id": "16179171", "title": "Can follow-up radiography for acute scaphoid fracture still be considered a valid investigation?", "content": "Can follow-up radiography for acute scaphoid fracture still be considered a valid investigation? To determine whether follow-up radiography is a valid diagnostic investigation in patients with suspected acute scaphoid fractures and normal initial radiographs. Fifty sets of radiographs (initial and follow-up) were independently assessed by four expert observers for the presence or absence of a scaphoid fracture. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), performed in all cases, was used as the gold standard to determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of the observers' assessment of the follow-up radiograph. In addition, the reliability among observers of the follow-up radiograph was determined by reliability variance analysis. Of the 50 sets of radiographs, 35 patients had a scaphoid fracture and 15 were normal, as established from MRI report. For individual observer's assessment of the follow-up radiograph, sensitivities of 11, 9, 43 and 49%; specificities of 93, 93, 87 and 80%; positive predictive values of 80, 75, 88 and 85%; and negative predictive values of 31, 30, 39 and 40%. A reliability coefficient of more than 60% is needed for a diagnostic test to be considered reliable. Overall, the inter-observer reliability coefficient was 33%, with pair-wise inter-observer coefficients ranging from 18-53%. With poor sensitivity, poor negative predictive value and poor reliability, follow-up radiography cannot be considered a valid diagnostic examination for the detection of scaphoid fracture in patients with normal initial radiographs."}
{"id": "16176695", "title": "Management of suspected scaphoid fractures in accident and emergency departments--time for new guidelines.", "content": "Management of suspected scaphoid fractures in accident and emergency departments--time for new guidelines. The objectives of this work were to assess the clinical knowledge of clinicians in the accident and emergency (A&E) departments in England & Wales and evaluate the current trend for the acute management of radiologically normal, but clinically suspected, fractures of the scaphoid. We conducted a telephone survey on 146 A&E senior house officers (SHOs) in 50 different hospitals. This survey assessed the clinicians' experience, their clinical and radiological diagnostic methods, and their initial treatment of suspected scaphoid fractures. The majority (55.8%) of SHOs performed only one clinical test to diagnose suspected scaphoid fractures. Overall, 41% were unable to cite the number of the radiographic views taken and only 10% of departments have direct access to further radiological investigation. There is wide variation in the early treatment of this injury, with the scaphoid cast used most commonly (46%). The majority of SHOs (89%) were unable to describe the features of immobilisation. The mean follow-up period was 10 days, and 53% of cases were followed-up by the senior staff in A&E. Of SHOs, 54% were not aware of any local guidelines for the management of suspected scaphoid fractures in their departments, and 92% were not aware of the existence of the 1992 British Association for Accident and Emergency Medicine (BAEM) guidelines. The clinical knowledge and the management of suspected scaphoid fractures in A&E are unsatisfactory. We, therefore, suggest that the dissemination of up-to-date guidelines could help to educate clinicians to provide better care to the patients."}
{"id": "16171639", "title": "Arthroscopically assisted repair of peripheral triangular fibrocartilage complex tears: factors affecting outcome.", "content": "Arthroscopically assisted repair of peripheral triangular fibrocartilage complex tears: factors affecting outcome. The purpose of our study was to identify factors affecting the outcome after arthroscopically assisted repair of peripheral triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) tears. Retrospective case series. Thirty-five patients who underwent arthroscopic repair of traumatic TFCC tears were enrolled in this study (mean age, 34 +/- 12 years; 22 female and 13 male patients; mean follow-up, 29 months; range, 6 to 82 months). Patients with TFCC tears associated with distal radius fractures, or significant wrist bone or neurovascular pathology were excluded from the study. The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire score was used as the primary variable during statistical analysis to identify factors determining outcome. The DASH score in this study was 12 +/- 12 points. A significant correlation was found between the age of the patient and the DASH score, indicating that older age has a significant negative effect on functional outcome. Significant correlations were also found between the DASH score and (1) decreased percentage of grip strength compared with the healthy side, (2) decreased supination, and (3) positive postoperative ulnar variance. Age-related degenerative changes in the wrist might contribute to poor outcome and a TFCC tear resulting from minor or repetitive trauma. Loss of wrist rotation, grip strength, and ulnar positive variance are factors that are correlated with poor outcome. Level IV."}
{"id": "16157855", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress injury: long-term outcome and clinicoradiological correlation using both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress injury: long-term outcome and clinicoradiological correlation using both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Tarsal navicular stress fracture is a condition that has curtailed many athletic careers. Management protocols remain varied and somewhat controversial. (1) Clinical practice does not mirror the recommendations reported from previous case series. (2) Clinical outcome is poor when navicular stress fracture is managed in a variety of ways. (3) Imaging does not correlate strongly with clinical status at long-term follow-up after navicular stress fracture. Case series (prognosis); Level of evidence, 4. From a computer registry, we identified patients who had attended a university sports medicine center between 1996 and 2002 and whose final diagnosis was navicular stress fracture (n = 11) or navicular stress reaction (n = 9). All patients had provided demographic and clinical data at their original evaluation, and all had undergone bone scans and computed tomographic imaging. These data were extracted by chart review. Follow-up clinical and imaging assessments took place a median of 3.7 years later (range, 1-15.7 years). At these assessments, we administered a questionnaire, performed a structured physician examination (blinded to other data), scanned both feet with computed tomography, and obtained magnetic resonance images of the affected foot. Only 2 of 11 patients (18%) with navicular stress fractures received the literature-recommended treatment of at least 6 weeks' nonweightbearing cast immobilization. Of these 11 patients, only 6 (55%) returned to sports at their previous level. Only 3 patients with navicular stress fractures regained normal imaging appearance at follow-up. Pain score, stiffness, sporting success, current sporting involvement, and recurrence/time to recurrence were not statistically associated with computed tomographic or magnetic resonance imaging parameters. Of 9 patients with navicular stress reactions, 7 developed clinical and radiological features of navicular stress fracture, but 6 of 9 patients (67%) returned successfully to sports. Contemporary management of navicular stress fracture differs from that recommended in the literature. This stress fracture prevented almost half of the participants in this study from returning to sports at their previous level. Imaging parameters do not correlate with the clinical assessment of a patient at long-term follow-up of navicular stress fracture."}
{"id": "16149035", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures--operative or conservative treatment? A CT-based classification].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures--operative or conservative treatment? A CT-based classification]. Traditionally acute scaphoid fractures were treated by immobilization. As a consequence we have to deal with a high number of scaphoid non-unions or SNAC wrists. A study of 30 patients with scaphoid non-union showed that only 30% (9 patients) have not seen a doctor, while the majority of the patients (70%, 21 patients) were treated by a physician after trauma. In 15 (71.4%) of these 21 patients a missed diagnosis and in 6 (28.6%) a failed conservative treatment of the scaphoid fracture were the reasons for scaphoid non-union. Therefore, improvements in the diagnosis and therapy of scaphoid fractures are urgently needed. Herbert's classification of scaphoid fractures provides the underlying rationale for treatment according to the fracture type seen on X-ray. Differentiation between stable and unstable fractures sometimes is difficult from conventional X-rays. In these cases we recommend a CT bone scan in the long axis of the scaphoid. According to the CT scan we modified Herbert's classification: undisplaced waist fractures are classified as stable and can be treated conservatively or can be stabilized percutaneously using minimally invasive procedures. Comminuted or displaced fractures are classified as unstable and need operative treatment because of the increased risk of scaphoid non-union after plaster immobilization. Fractures of the proximal pole of the scaphoid should be treated operatively by internal fixation, even if they are not displaced, because of the reduced perfusion. We recommend a CT scan of the scaphoid, if there is any doubt about the diagnosis or the stability of the scaphoid fracture. In any case, a CT scan has to be ordered to justify a conservative treatment."}
{"id": "16133477", "title": "Segmental fracture of the scaphoid: report of a rare fracture pattern.", "content": "Segmental fracture of the scaphoid: report of a rare fracture pattern. To the best of our knowledge, there are no reports in the orthopaedic and trauma literature of true segmental fracture of the scaphoid bone. We present such a case with a brief discussion of the morphology and mechanisms of injury of scaphoid fractures and the problems they present, particularly in diagnosis. A 43-year-old male with polytrauma sustained in a motorcycle road traffic accident was treated at our hospital. His injuries included a fracture initially thought to involve the waist of the scaphoid. Because he had bilateral upper limb injuries, we elected to treat the fracture surgically to facilitate rehabilitation. At the time of surgery, the fracture was noted to be truly segmental, an unsuspected and rare finding. The fracture was internally fixed, with a satisfactory result. Scaphoid fracture patterns are generally consistent and predictable, occurring most commonly through the waist of the bone. Mechanism for injury is thought to be hyperextension of the wrist. Comminution, with or without a butterfly fragment, is occasionally seen, as are simultaneous tuberosity fractures. We suggest that the mechanism in this case may have been multiple or secondary trauma, or an effect of loaded rotation. We highlight the need for careful imaging of the scaphoid bone prior to choosing treatment."}
{"id": "16121617", "title": "[Recent scaphoid fractures (within the first three weeks)].", "content": "[Recent scaphoid fractures (within the first three weeks)]. Scaphoid fractures are the most common carpal fracture, accounting for 70 a 80% of all fractures of the wrist. The diagnosis of acute fracture of the scaphoid still continues to be missed despite an increasing improvement of imaging techniques. In fact, these fractures are mainly neglected because of minimal early symptoms or quick resolution of initial symptoms. X-ray analysis of acute fractures is rather difficult because of the irregular shape of the scaphoid and its overlapping with other structures. In case of doubtfull or negative initial radiographic views, a technetium 99 bone scan or MR imaging should be consisidered. These fractures occuring in the young and most active members of our society represents a population that doesn't have the patience for traditionnal immobilisation in cast. Thus patients with undisplaced fractures for whom early return to work or sport is a primary concern, percutaneous repair with cannulated screw fixation using fluoroscopy and even aided with arthroscopy represents an increasing option. Nevertheless, in thoses cases, cast immobilisation should always be first considered. If percutaneous internal fixation is the first choice in proximal pole fractures or fractures seen with a delay, in the other cases, it can only be advocated if internal fixation will provide a stable reduction. There is little controversy for the treatment of displaced unstable scaphoid fractures. Open repair and internal fixation with a screw represents the golden standard. Complex displaced or dislocated fractures are often comminuted and associated with bony defect. Accurate reduction may need to perform a bone graft. The ligamentous injuries should also be carefully repaired . Evidence of associated cartilagenous lesions must be asessed with precision, as they always jeopardize the end result."}
{"id": "16118171", "title": "Acute peripheral joint injury: cost and effectiveness of low-field-strength MR imaging--results of randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Acute peripheral joint injury: cost and effectiveness of low-field-strength MR imaging--results of randomized controlled trial. To assess prospectively if a short imaging examination performed with low-field-strength dedicated magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in addition to radiography is effective and cost saving compared with the current diagnostic imaging strategy (radiography alone) in patients with recent acute traumatic injury of the wrist, knee, or ankle. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained. Patients with recent trauma of the wrist, knee, or ankle were randomized across two diagnostic strategies: radiography alone (reference group) or radiography followed by a short MR imaging examination (intervention group). Measures of effectiveness included the number of additional diagnostic procedures, time to last diagnostic procedure, and number of days absent from work. Measures of effectiveness were analyzed by using an exact Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test. Time to convalescence and quality of life were analyzed by using a t test. Cost analysis was performed from a societal perspective and analyzed by using a t test. Five hundred patients (207 women, 293 men; mean age, 34.8 years) with acute injury of the wrist, knee, or ankle were randomized. In the intervention group, quality of life for patients with knee injuries was significantly higher during the first 6 weeks, and time to completion of diagnostic work-up was significantly shorter (mean, 3.5 days for intervention group vs 17.3 days for reference group). The number of additional diagnostic procedures was significantly lower in the intervention group versus the reference group (nine vs 35, respectively) for patients with knee injuries. Patients with knee injuries showed the largest difference in costs (intervention group, 1820 [$1966]; reference group, 2231 [$2409]) owing to a reduction in productivity loss. Costs were higher in patients with wrist injuries and almost equal in patients with ankle injuries. All cost differences, however, were not significant. Compared with radiography, MR imaging in patients with acute wrist or ankle injuries is neither cost saving nor effective in expediting diagnostic work-up or improving quality of life. In patients with knee injuries, a short MR imaging examination shortens the time to completion of diagnostic work-up, reduces the number of additional diagnostic procedures, improves quality of life in the first 6 weeks, and may reduce costs associated with lost productivity."}
{"id": "16110099", "title": "16 detector multislice CT versus skeletal scintigraphy in the diagnosis of wrist fractures: value of quantification of 99Tcm-MDP uptake.", "content": "16 detector multislice CT versus skeletal scintigraphy in the diagnosis of wrist fractures: value of quantification of 99Tcm-MDP uptake. To compare the measured uptake of 99Tcm-methylene diphosphonate (99Tcm-MDP) in those scaphoid fractures seen on both 16 detector multislice CT and scintigraphy, with those seen only on scintigraphy. Over a 12 month period a total of 51 patients with suspected fracture underwent both conventional 99Tcm-MDP scintigraphy and 16 detector multislice CT on the same day. The 99Tcm-MDP uptake was then quantified in patients with identified fracture. This was measured by placing a region of interest (ROI) over the fracture site and the mean and maximum number of counts were compared with those in a similar size ROI placed over background bone activity. A total of 23 fractures were identified on scintigraphy of which 16 were also detected on CT (concordant). In seven cases the fracture was not seen on CT, even in retrospect (discordant). In the discordant cases, follow-up radiographs and MRI (where available) also failed to demonstrate a fracture. The mean fracture count to background bone activity ratio averaged 7.7 (range 3.2-18.5) for concordant fractures and 3.8 (range 1.7-5.3) for discordant fractures (t-test p=0.04). The maximum fracture count to background bone activity ratio averaged 12.7 (range 4.3-27.7) for concordant fractures and 6.3 (range 2.6-9.5) for discordant fractures (t-test p=0.03). It is speculated whether these discordant fractures with less 99Tcm-MDP uptake may represent a less severe injury such as bone bruise."}
{"id": "16075778", "title": "The management of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "The management of scaphoid fractures. Appropriate management of scaphoid fractures is important because of the risk of long-term complications such as delayed or non-union, pain and disability. Up to 25% of scaphoid fractures are not visible on the initial radiographs. Consequently, all clinically suspected scaphoid fractures are treated as fractures with cast immobilisation until cause of the symptoms is clarified. The diagnosis often utilises a number of second line investigations that are generally performed 10-14 days after the injury. Bone scintigraphy is currently the most commonly used of these as it rarely misses a fracture. However, it does not visualise anatomical structure and therefore alternative diagnoses are difficult. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is at least as sensitive and more specific than bone scanning and has the advantages of being able to identify other lesions and not expose the patient to any radiation. Furthermore, the scan may be performed as early as 2.8 days following an injury rather than 10 days later in the case of a bone scan. Although the cost of MRI is higher than other imaging modalities, it may be cost-effective in the overall management of patients with occult scaphoid fractures since it may prevent unnecessary cast immobilisation in active people. The most appropriate method of cast immobilisation is presently unclear but evidence exists for improved clinical outcomes in those that have both the thumb and elbow immobilised for the first six weeks."}
{"id": "16075273", "title": "Unusual presentation of osteoid osteoma of the scaphoid.", "content": "Unusual presentation of osteoid osteoma of the scaphoid. The small carpal bones are infrequent sites for osteoid osteomas, and their clinical and imaging pictures may be quite confusing leading to suspect other etiologies. The authors present herein an unusual case of osteoid osteoma of the scaphoid superimposed on a wrist injury caused by a fall on the outstretched hand."}
{"id": "16046094", "title": "Stress views in the radiography of scapholunate instability.", "content": "Stress views in the radiography of scapholunate instability. On the suspected carpal instabilities stress views are recommended but not often used. The present study evaluates the reliability of the dorsal and volar stress radiographs on patients with posttraumatic wrist pain. Stress radiographs of the wrists were examined in 22 patients with chronic wrist pain and the results were compared with scaphoid shift test and standard and positional views. The stress examination consists of applying to the wrist dorsal and volar stresses on the hand. Static scapholunate instability was diagnosed in 4 patients in whom 3 of them had positive scaphoid shift test sign as well. There were, however, 18 patients with dynamic scapholunate instability in whom the standard films were normal but dorsal stress radiography showed gap greater than 3mm between the scaphoid and lunate. Stress tests may provide considerable information in the evaluation of a patient who has a painful wrist in whom routine and special views do not demonstrate scapholunate dissociation."}
{"id": "16019741", "title": "Combined fractures of the body and hook of hamate: a form of ulnar axial injury of the wrist.", "content": "Combined fractures of the body and hook of hamate: a form of ulnar axial injury of the wrist. Fractures of the hamate are rare, and usually associated with athletes. We describe an unusual form of the injury involving fractures of the hook as well as an intra-articular medial facet. It is likely to be a result of high velocity ulnar component of the axial injury. Surgical treatment is advocated to achieve accurate reduction and apposition of the fifth carpometacarpal joint."}
{"id": "16006021", "title": "Partial union of acute scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Partial union of acute scaphoid fractures. Sixty-six patients with acute scaphoid fractures were treated non-operatively in a below elbow plaster for 8 to 12 weeks and underwent CT scans along the longitudinal axis of the scaphoid at 12 to 18 weeks. These scans showed that 14 fractures had not united and that 30 had united throughout the whole cross-section of the scaphoid. The other 22 had partially united with bridging trabeculae in some areas of the cross-section. These 22 partial unions were graded as 0% to 24% union (0 cases), 25% to 49% union (5 cases), 50% to 74% union (7 cases), and 75% to 99% union (10 cases). The 12 patients who had less than 75% fracture union were followed-up further and nine underwent another CT scan at 23 to 40 weeks after the initial injury. These showed union across the whole of the cross-section of the fracture in seven cases and 75% to 99% union in the other two cases, who had full and painless wrist function. We conclude that partial union of the scaphoid is a common occurrence but, in most cases, it progresses to full union without the need for prolonged plaster immobilization."}
{"id": "15979624", "title": "Outcome of routine bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Outcome of routine bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fractures. Undisplaced scaphoid fractures are easily missed on conventional scaphoid radiographs, but these occult fractures may seriously impair hand function. Routine bone scintigraphy (BS) is often advocated if there are clinical signs of a scaphoid fracture without radiological evidence. However, the results require careful therapeutic management. To determine the diagnostic value of BS in daily practice for clinically suspected scaphoid fractures. We evaluated our protocol of routine BS in suspected scaphoid fractures. In a retrospective study, we analysed 111 consecutive cases with signs of a scaphoid fracture on physical examination. Radiographs revealed 55 fractures, the remaining 56 patients all underwent BS. On average, the BS was performed after 4 days. It showed a fracture in 38/56 of the patients. The distribution of fractures was: scaphoid bone 15, distal radius 11, other carpal bones 9 and metacarpal bones 3. If there is a strong clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture, which cannot be confirmed by conventional radiology, BS is a valuable diagnostic tool."}
{"id": "15948438", "title": "Current perspectives in the management of scaphoid nonunions.", "content": "Current perspectives in the management of scaphoid nonunions. When left untreated, scaphoid fractures follow a downward spiral resulting in carpal collapse and arthritis. The purpose of intervention is to allow a cartilage-wrapped bone to heal and maintain a smooth articular surface. Proposed treatment options for scaphoid nonunions have varied success rates. Using the Mack-Lichtman classification for nonunions, a plan can be formulated for individual patients based on motion loss, degenerative changes, carpal collapse, and fracture instability manifested by bone loss. Stable nonunions may benefit from bone grafting and internal fixation. Unstable nonunions require grafting and fixation. With the development of arthritis, grafting and fixation must be weighed against suitability of a proximal row carpectomy or a four-corner fusion with scaphoid excision. Advanced carpal collapse and arthritis mandates fusion, either limited or complete. CT allows preoperative planning to assess grafting requirements. MRI defines vascular supply fa vascular graft is considered. Vascularized graft options have multiplied as attention has been focused on the impact of improved blood supply on the avascular scaphoid. Patient- and fracture-specific factors are important considerations when determining surgical options; underestimating their importance can compromise surgical results even with a high level of technical skill. Successful treatment of scaphoid nonunions remains a difficult challenge despite improvement in fixation devices and surgical options. By regarding injury status together with patient factors, surgical options can be narrowed and patient expectations managed more realistically."}
{"id": "15925164", "title": "Comparison of sagittal computed tomography and plain film radiography in a scaphoid fracture model.", "content": "Comparison of sagittal computed tomography and plain film radiography in a scaphoid fracture model. To compare computed tomography (CT) in the sagittal plane and plain film radiography in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture and displacement. Three groups of scaphoids (no fracture, undisplaced fractures, fractures with displacement > 1 mm) from 11 cadaver wrists were prepared. Each wrist then was imaged by using sagittal plane CT scans in the long axis of the scaphoid and plain film imaging using 6 standard scaphoid views. Eight readers from 3 specialties read each group of images. The sensitivity and specificity for the presence of fracture and fracture displacement were calculated in addition to interobserver and intraobserver reliabilities for each. Both x-ray and CT scans showed a high sensitivity and specificity in detecting the presence of a fracture with no interspecialty differences. The sensitivity for displacement greater than 1 mm was lower for both modalities with no inter-specialty differences. The specificities for x-ray and CT for detecting displacement greater than 1 mm were 84% and 89%, respectively. The poor sensitivity for detecting displacement was explained by the low sensitivity of CT in the diagnosis of radial/ulnar displacement compared with x-ray and the low sensitivity of x-ray in the diagnosis of volar/dorsal displacement compared with CT scans. When fellowship-trained hand surgeons reviewed CT scans and plain films together the sensitivity and specificity for fracture displacement increased significantly. Intraobserver and interobserver reliability for both x-ray and CT scans was excellent except for the reading of CT scans among emergency physicians and for the reading of plain x-rays among senior house staff, representing moderate agreement. Based on these results both CT scans in the sagittal plane and plain films accurately detect fractures with a high degree of interobserver and intraobserver reliability, but they fall short in detecting displacement greater than 1 mm."}
{"id": "15925163", "title": "Healing of a scaphoid nonunion using human bone morphogenetic protein.", "content": "Healing of a scaphoid nonunion using human bone morphogenetic protein. A chronic nonunion of a proximal pole fracture of the scaphoid was treated by curettage of the nonunion, single K-wire fixation, and implantation of 50 mg of human bone morphogenetic protein followed by 12 weeks of cast immobilization without any conventional corticocancellous bone grafting or rigid screw fixation. Radiographs showed signs of bony healing by 12 weeks and a magnetic resonance imaging scan 6 years after surgery showed no signs of avascular necrosis. The potential future applications of human bone morphogenetic protein in hand surgery are discussed."}
{"id": "15923890", "title": "The importance of preoperative imaging in posttraumatic late carpal tunnel syndrome.", "content": "The importance of preoperative imaging in posttraumatic late carpal tunnel syndrome."}
{"id": "15911954", "title": "Best evidence topic report. Magnetic resonance imaging or bone scintigraphy in the diagnosis of plain x ray occult scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Best evidence topic report. Magnetic resonance imaging or bone scintigraphy in the diagnosis of plain x ray occult scaphoid fractures. A short cut review was carried out to establish whether magnetic resonance scanning or bone scintigraphy is better at identifying scaphoid fractures not apparent on plain x rays. Altogether 11 papers were found using the reported search, of which four presented the best evidence to answer the clinical question. The author, date and country of publication, patient group studied, study type, relevant outcomes, results, and study weaknesses of these best papers are tabulated. A clinical bottom line is stated."}
{"id": "15877267", "title": "[Fractures of the scaphoid tubercle].", "content": "[Fractures of the scaphoid tubercle]. Avulsion fractures of the scaphoid tubercle (Herbert type A1) are rare. Recommendations in the literature focus on a four to six week plaster immobilization including the thumb. Surgery is recommended in case of additional injuries to the carpus. In a retrospective investigation including a 36 month period we reviewed acute fractures of the scaphoid and avulsion fractures of the scaphoid tubercle. We found 81 acute scaphoid fractures, four of them (4.9 %) were isolated tuberculum avulsions. Three cases were extra-, one case an intraarticular fracture. The first were treated conservatively, the last with a percutaneous screw. Following our own experiences with those rare injuries we recommend a differentiation of the fracture type into extraarticular injuries where conservative treatment should still be performed and intraarticular fractures where percutaneous screw osteosynthesis should be discussed."}
{"id": "15864044", "title": "Does three-dimensional computer simulation improve results of scaphoid nonunion surgery?", "content": "Does three-dimensional computer simulation improve results of scaphoid nonunion surgery? The purpose of this study was to clarify the effectiveness of the three-dimensional computer simulations in scaphoid nonunion surgery. Seven consecutive clinical patients with scaphoid nonunion at the middle third comprised the study group. Surface models of the scaphoid were constructed on the computer using computed tomography data of the bilateral wrists in neutral position. The distal and proximal fragments of the nonunion model were matched to the mirror image of the contralateral scaphoid model. The rotation of the distal fragment relative to the proximal fragment was calculated, and reduction of the displaced fragment of the scaphoid nonunion was simulated. Similarly, the estimated bone defect and the appropriate site and direction of the screw insertion were simulated. Full-sized hard models of the bone, including a model with simulated reduction and screw insertion, then were made using stereolithography based on the computer data. In the actual surgery, reduction, bone grafting, and screw insertion were achieved using the hard models as guides. All the patients obtained solid bone fusion and substantial clinical improvement with normalized scapholunate and radiolunate angles after surgery. Three-dimensional computer simulations were found as useful for accurate correction of scaphoid nonunions and proper screw placement, which consequently leads to good clinical results."}
{"id": "15855098", "title": "16-MDCT in the detection of occult wrist fractures: a comparison with skeletal scintigraphy.", "content": "16-MDCT in the detection of occult wrist fractures: a comparison with skeletal scintigraphy. Our objective was to assess the potential use of MDCT in the detection of occult scaphoid fractures. Fifty-one patients with suspected radiographically occult scaphoid fractures at 10-14 days after trauma were investigated prospectively with skeletal scintigraphy and CT on the same day. Planar images of the wrist were taken 3 hr after IV injection of 400 MBq of (99m)Tc-methylene diphosphonate using a single-head gamma camera. CT was performed on a 16-MDCT machine using 0.75-mm detectors and reconstruction in 0.5-mm slices. Multiplanar reformatted images were then viewed in interactive cine mode. The examinations were reported independently, and discordant results were compared at follow-up. CT was positive for wrist fracture in 14 (27.4%) of 51 patients and skeletal scintigraphy in 23 (45.1%) of 51 patients. Even after retrospective review, there were seven discrepant cases (13.7%), all of which were positive for wrist fracture on scintigraphy but negative on CT. Four of these seven patients with discordant findings underwent further radiography at 6 weeks, which did not show fracture. Although CT was preferred by most patients and was quicker, scintigraphy appears to detect bony abnormality more frequently. However, there appears to be an interesting group of patients (7/51) with normal initial radiography findings but positive scintigraphy findings who would normally be considered to have a fracture but for whom CT results were negative. In some of these patients, the results of follow-up radiography at 6 weeks were also negative, suggesting that this group of patients warrants further study."}
{"id": "15800530", "title": "Arthroscopic reconstruction of an isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity.", "content": "Arthroscopic reconstruction of an isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity. Isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity represents an extremely rare injury that occurs mainly in younger patients. This report outlines the case of a 35-year-old healthy man who sustained a bony avulsion of the subscapularis tendon during an abduction external rotation trauma to his left shoulder. The injury was diagnosed by physical examination, standard radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging. An arthroscopic reconstruction including closed reduction and internal fixation using suture anchors was performed. After a follow-up of 6 months, the patient's Constant Score increased from 62.4 points preoperatively to 91.3 points. At the latest follow-up, the patient was completely pain free, had regained a full work activity level, and returned to overhead sports. On postoperative standard radiographs and magnetic resonance images, the bony fragment was shown to be consolidated in an anatomic position. In cases of displaced isolated fractures of the lesser tuberosity without significant subluxation or dislocation of the long head of the biceps arthroscopic reconstruction using suture anchors can lead to a good clinical and radiological result."}
{"id": "15781361", "title": "Acute coronal plane scaphoid fracture and scapholunate dissociation from an axial load: a case report.", "content": "Acute coronal plane scaphoid fracture and scapholunate dissociation from an axial load: a case report. Coronal fractures of the scaphoid are rare and can be difficult to diagnose. Axial load injuries that result in a complete coronal fracture of the scaphoid associated with an acute scapholunate dissociation are exceedingly rare. In our patient the radiographic finding of wide scapholunate dissociation was obvious; however, the coronal scaphoid fracture was not recognized initially nor suspected. During surgery the coronal scaphoid fracture was identified, reduced anatomically, and fixed with a compression screw. The scapholunate ligament also was repaired. A good result was obtained with return to sports with extension of 60 degrees and flexion of 70 degrees , grip strength equal to that of the uninjured wrist, and no radiographic problems (arthrosis, avascular necrosis, nonunion)."}
{"id": "15781360", "title": "Patterns of bone defect in scaphoid nonunion: a 3-dimensional and quantitative analysis.", "content": "Patterns of bone defect in scaphoid nonunion: a 3-dimensional and quantitative analysis. To clarify patterns and size of bone defect in scaphoid nonunion in order to facilitate accurate correction of scaphoid deformity. Three-dimensional computed tomography was used to examine 24 patients with scaphoid nonunion. Configuration and size of bone defect were quantified and computed on the basis of fracture location. Cases were categorized as distal or proximal based on location of the fracture line relative to the dorsal apex of the scaphoid ridge. Distal scaphoid fractures displayed wedge-shaped bone defects with the base facing volarly. Proximal scaphoid fractures exhibited flat, crescent-shaped defects that presented only around the fracture site. The size of bone defects was significantly greater for distal fractures than for proximal fractures. Whether the fracture line passes distal or proximal to the dorsal apex of the scaphoid ridge is a crucial factor in the generation of bone defect. A large wedge-shaped bone graft from the volar side is necessary for distal nonunion whereas a small cancellous bone graft from the dorsal side may be preferable for proximal nonunion."}
{"id": "15757776", "title": "Physical examination of the carpal bones by orthopaedic and accident and emergency surgeons.", "content": "Physical examination of the carpal bones by orthopaedic and accident and emergency surgeons. Our aim was to test knowledge of carpal bone surface anatomy among orthopaedic and accident and emergency surgeons. A survey of 58 surgeons was conducted. Each was asked to palpate seven points on five commonly injured carpal bones. Eight surgeons declined to participate. Five of the remaining 50 correctly palpated all surface markings. Six failed to accurately palpate even a single point. The scaphoid waist and trapezial ridge were accurately palpated by 47 surgeons. The median score for all participants was 3 correctly identified points. The majority of orthopaedic and accident and emergency surgeons do not perform an accurate physical examination of the carpal bones. The ancient art of history taking, precise physical examination and elucidation of a confident diagnosis is at risk of being replaced with tentative diagnoses and imaging techniques that are expensive and time consuming. We believe that basic anatomical teaching is inadequate."}
{"id": "15756078", "title": "Management of clinical fractures of the scaphoid: results of an audit and literature review.", "content": "Management of clinical fractures of the scaphoid: results of an audit and literature review. Two to 5% of scaphoid fractures are missed on initial presentation. The failure of early recognition and treatment are considered to contribute to delayed union and non-union. Despite advances in diagnostic imaging, a dogmatic approach has persisted in the management of patients with clinical suspicion but no radiographic evidence of scaphoid fracture. A critical analysis of the current treatment protocol of indiscriminate cast immobilization and serial clinical and radiographic follow-up is presented. A prospective study involving 90 patients with clinical signs suggestive of scaphoid injury, followed up until a definite boney injury was demonstrated or the patient was discharged. A review of the literature was conducted to question the need for immobilization in these patients and the potential use of other forms of diagnostic imaging in screening for occult scaphoid fractures. The incidence of true fractures of the scaphoid was 6.66% (5/75). Ten patients (13.33%) had other injuries around the wrist unrelated to the scaphoid. Eighty per cent of the patients had no definite boney injury and were needlessly immobilized, and followed up. A total of 128 scaphoid casts, 135 sets of scaphoid X-rays, 135 clinic appointments and a cumulative 148 weeks of cast immobilization involved patients with normal wrists. The incidence of radiologically inapparent fractures of the scaphoid is low. The use of a tender anatomical snuff box as the only clinical sign in the diagnosis of scaphoid injury is unsatisfactory. Other injuries around the wrist must be carefully excluded. There is insufficient evidence to support immobilizing all patients with clinical scaphoid fractures. For suspected fractures with no radiological evidence, symptomatic treatment is probably sufficient. Most occult fractures are visible at 2 weeks. Both magnetic resonance imaging and bone scintigraphy are accurate and cost effective and should be performed earlier rather than later."}
{"id": "15751361", "title": "Your diagnosis? Scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Your diagnosis? Scaphoid fracture. Fractures of the scaphoid are the most common carpal bone fracture. With careful management, prognosis is excellent. Imaging is critical, not only for early diagnosis, but also for monitoring patients after initial treatment to detect unstable fractures, the common complications of nonunion and avascular necrosis, and the need for surgical treatment."}
{"id": "15738806", "title": "Carpal fractures in children.", "content": "Carpal fractures in children. Carpal injuries in children are relatively rare. Diagnosis is likely to be missed, or the severity of the injury might not fully be appreciated at the time of presentation. Fortunately, in the majority of cases the fracture heals uneventfully with a low incidence of complications. As in adults, the scaphoid is most susceptible to injury and the capitate, which often presents in association with other carpal bone injuries, the next most susceptible. Other carpal bone fractures are very unusual and the literature largely is confined to case reports or very small series. This review article lists the common carpal injuries in children and suggests a treatment plan in each case, emphasizing the importance of having a high index of suspicion when faced with a child with a wrist injury and seemingly normal radiographs."}
{"id": "15712982", "title": "Physeal bridge resection.", "content": "Physeal bridge resection. Growth arrest secondary to physeal bridge formation is an uncommon but well-recognized complication of physeal fractures and other injuries. Regardless of the underlying etiology, physeal bridges may cause angular and/or longitudinal growth disturbances, with progression dependent on the remaining physeal growth potential. Physeal bridge resection and insertion of interposition material releases the tethering effect of the bridge. Physeal bridge resection has become an accepted treatment option for patients with existing or developing deformity and for those with at least 2 years or 2 cm of growth remaining. Current experimental research is focused on the use of gene therapy and other factors that enhance chondrocyte proliferation to improve the management of growth arrest. The use of cartilage and cultured chondrocytes as interposition material after physeal bridge resection is an area of active research."}
{"id": "15711629", "title": "Use of early magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures: the CAST Study (Canberra Area Scaphoid Trial).", "content": "Use of early magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures: the CAST Study (Canberra Area Scaphoid Trial). To establish the effectiveness of early magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture in patients with suggestive clinical findings (but a normal initial X-ray) in an Australian major-referral emergency department A prospective study of patients who presented within 24 hours after trauma with clinical findings suggestive of a scaphoid fracture but no evidence of fracture on the initial X-ray. MRI was performed within 24 hours of presentation. Clinical review in patients with normal initial MRI was carried out in 10 days and repeat MRI was carried out when clinically indicated. A total of 22 patients were enrolled. Early MRI within 24 hours revealed 6 scaphoid fractures, 2 distal radial fractures and a hamate fracture. Thirteen patients had no fracture on the initial MRI. Upon clinical review in 10 days, 5 of these patients were clinically cleared and discharged. Eight of these patients underwent repeat MRI none of which revealed a fracture. In an Australian tertiary hospital with MRI facility, the early use of MRI is a sensitive and practical way to diagnose occult scaphoid fractures and saves unnecessary immobilisation."}
{"id": "15695009", "title": "[Vascularized bone graft in carpal bone reconstruction].", "content": "[Vascularized bone graft in carpal bone reconstruction]. We report our experience of vascularized bone graft harvested from the volar aspect of the distal radius for carpal bone reconstruction. Thirty cadaveric dissections showed in all cases the volar carpal artery which born from the radial artery. Between 1994 to 2001, we treated 87 scaphoid non-unions with an average follow-up of 41 months (range 6 to 65 months). Union was obtained in 80 patients (92%) with an average delay of 8.6 weeks (range 6 to 24). Between 1994 to 2000 we treated 22 patients with a Kienbock's disease. A radius shortening was always added to the revascularization of lunate by this vascularized bone graft. Preoperative and postoperative MRI was systematically done. The average follow-up was 55 months (range 24 to 92 months). MRI showed healing with good revascularization in 16 cases (74%). Lesions of lunate were stabilized in five cases and we had one failure with secondary palliative procedure. This simple but meticulous technique needs only one approach and allows a sufficient revascularisation."}
{"id": "15673532", "title": "Case report: False negative 16 detector multislice CT for scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Case report: False negative 16 detector multislice CT for scaphoid fracture. We discuss a case of a 19-year-old man with scaphoid trauma. We describe the imaging findings on three sets of radiographs, bone scintigraphy, CT and MRI. CT failed to identify a scaphoid fracture, which was present on 6 week radiographs, MRI and scintigraphy. The case illustrates that despite multidetector technology, CT still relies upon cortical and or trabecular displacement to demonstrate fractures."}
{"id": "15666131", "title": "Incomplete scapholunate and trapeziotrapezoid coalitions with an accessory carpal bone.", "content": "Incomplete scapholunate and trapeziotrapezoid coalitions with an accessory carpal bone. Coalitions of the carpal bones associated with accessory carpal bones are relatively uncommon. We present a case of scapholunate and trapeziotrapezoid incomplete coalition with a dorsally situated accessory bone between trapezium and trapezoideum. X-ray, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging findings of the patient are discussed in light of the pertinent literature."}
{"id": "15665691", "title": "Three-dimensional computed tomography imaging: its applicability in the evaluation of extensor tendons in the hand and wrist.", "content": "Three-dimensional computed tomography imaging: its applicability in the evaluation of extensor tendons in the hand and wrist. The purpose of this study was to determine whether 3-dimensional (3D) computed tomography (CT) imaging with volume rendering can accurately evaluate extensor tendons in the hand and wrist. Three-dimensional CT imaging was used to evaluate 14 cases. The location where the rupture was suspected was the wrist level in all cases. The accuracy of the image diagnosis was confirmed during surgery in 13 cases. Three-dimensional CT could identify all extensor tendons proximal to the metacarpophalangeal joint. In the cases with rupture, the location of the distal stump could be identified, whereas that of the proximal stump was uncertain. The tendon stump location confirmed during surgery correlated well with the images. This study revealed the usefulness of 3D CT imaging in defining extensor tendons proximal to the metacarpophalangeal joint. This method increased the accuracy and ease of diagnosis and was always useful in surgical planning and patient education."}
{"id": "15665201", "title": "Cost effectiveness of adding magnetic resonance imaging to the usual management of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Cost effectiveness of adding magnetic resonance imaging to the usual management of suspected scaphoid fractures. To determine the cost effectiveness of a magnetic resonance imaging scan (MRI) within 5 days of injury compared with the usual management of occult scaphoid fracture. All patients with suspected scaphoid fractures in five hospitals were invited to participate in a randomised controlled trial of usual treatment with or without an MRI scan. Healthcare costs were compared, and a cost effectiveness analysis of the use of MRI in this scenario was performed. Twenty eight of the 37 patients identified were randomised: 17 in the control group, 11 in the MRI group. The groups were similar at baseline and follow up in terms of number of scaphoid fractures, other injuries, pain, and function. Of the patients without fracture, the MRI group had significantly fewer days immobilised: a median of 3.0 (interquartile range 3.0-3.0) v 10.0 (7-12) in the control group (p = 0.006). The MRI group used fewer healthcare units (median 3.0, interquartile range 2.0-4.25) than the control group (5.0, 3.0-6.5) (p = 0.03 for the difference). However, the median cost of health care in the MRI group (594.35 dollars AUD, 551.35-667.23 dollars) was slightly higher than in the control group (428.15 dollars, 124.40-702.65 dollars) (p = 0.19 for the difference). The mean incremental cost effectiveness ratio derived from this simulation was that MRI costs 44.37 dollars per day saved from unnecessary immobilisation (95% confidence interval 4.29 dollars to 101.02 dollars). An illustrative willingness to pay was calculated using a combination of the trials measure of the subjects' individual productivity losses and the average daily earnings. Use of MRI in the management of occult scaphoid fracture reduces the number of days of unnecessary immobilisation and use of healthcare units. Healthcare costs increased non-significantly in relation to the use of MRI in this setting. However, when productivity losses are considered, MRI may be considered cost effective, depending on the individual case."}
{"id": "15620498", "title": "Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA): can it detect acute scaphoid fractures?", "content": "Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA): can it detect acute scaphoid fractures? This prospective study investigated whether dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) could detect acute scaphoid fractures. We blindly compared 10 normal and 10 fractured scaphoid images produced with a new technique of DXA scan analysis. This measured and plotted the density of the scaphoid throughout its length, producing a linear graph of the scaphoids' density instead of a single area (g/cm2) measurement of bone density. These new plots only detected six of the 10 fractures and suggested that four of the normal controls were fractured. Thus, this technique of DXA scan analysis is neither sensitive nor specific for the detection of acute scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "15618379", "title": "Acute wrist trauma: value of a short dedicated extremity MR imaging examination in prediction of need for treatment.", "content": "Acute wrist trauma: value of a short dedicated extremity MR imaging examination in prediction of need for treatment. To assess predictive value of a short magnetic resonance (MR) imaging examination in addition to or instead of radiography in patients with acute wrist trauma to identify patients who require additional treatment versus those who do not and can be discharged without further follow-up. Informed consent was obtained from all participating patients; the institutional review board approved the randomized controlled trial and use of data to create prediction models. Of 90 patients (37 female, 53 male; mean age, 40.0 years), 87 with acute wrist trauma were randomized to undergo radiography (n = 43) or radiography and a short MR imaging examination with low-field-strength dedicated extremity MR system (n = 44). Age, sex, trauma mechanism, presence of tenderness of the anatomic snuffbox, radiographic results, MR imaging results, and treatment data were collected. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to create four models for prediction of treatment need. Thirty-six patients had one or more fractures; one patient had a marked soft-tissue lesion. In univariable analysis, age (odds ratio, 1.02; 95% confidence interval: 1.00, 1.05), anatomic snuffbox tenderness (odds ratio, 2.31; 95% confidence interval: 0.90, 5.96), radiographic results (odds ratio, 31.2; 95% confidence interval: 8.90, 109), and positive MR imaging results versus MR imaging not performed (odds ratio, 1.86; 95% confidence interval: 0.57, 6.06) were significantly predictive of treatment need. In multivariable analysis, radiographic results (odds ratio, 24.7; 95% confidence interval: 6.59, 93.1) and positive MR imaging results (odds ratio, 6.28; 95% confidence interval: 1.27, 31.0) were significantly predictive of treatment need. Negative MR imaging results were not significantly predictive (odds ratio, 0.87; 95% confidence interval: 0.20, 3.82). A short MR imaging examination with a low-field-strength MR imaging system following radiography in initial evaluation of patients with acute wrist trauma has additional value in prediction of treatment need; it does not have value in identification of patients who can be discharged without further follow-up."}
{"id": "15577307", "title": "Long-term follow-up of a malunited, isolated fracture of the capitate in a 6-year-old boy.", "content": "Long-term follow-up of a malunited, isolated fracture of the capitate in a 6-year-old boy. A 6-year-old boy with an isolated fracture of the capitate was presented. First radiograghs at our clinic revealed an oblique fracture with a displacement of 5 mm on the lateral view, which we successfully treated with immobilization. When complete union was recognized in the radiographs, the capitate had a deformity consisting of a large prominence on the palmar aspect. During follow-up, the capitate showed marked remodeling and at four and a half years after injury it had regained an almost normal shape. Eleven years after injury, there were no radiographic changes such as malalignment or arthrosis in the carpal bones."}
{"id": "15810106", "title": "Differences in radiographic findings between scaphoid fracture patterns.", "content": "Differences in radiographic findings between scaphoid fracture patterns. Scaphoid fracture patterns can be divided into volar and dorsal type using three-dimensional computed tomography. Ninety-nine patients underwent this examination plus radiography to determine how often fracture pattern was identifiable by radiography including proximal fragment ratio (PFR) measurement. Oblique radiographs obtained at 45 degrees of pronation demonstrated a volar displacement in 28 of 37 volar type fractures in three-dimensional computed tomography (76%), while as oblique view with 45 degrees of supination could identify the dorsal type in ten of 18 (56%). PFR showed a significant difference, with means of 0.59 for volar type and 0.43 for dorsal type. Using oblique views in the two rotational directions together with the PFR, the two fracture patterns could be differentiated in 35 of 43 fractures (81%). No differences were evident between the two fracture patterns with respect to prevalence of dorsal intercalated segment instability deformity."}
{"id": "15672921", "title": "[Contribution of quantitative radio-scintigraphy to diagnosis of wrist injuries undetected on plain films: a prospective study of 154 cases].", "content": "[Contribution of quantitative radio-scintigraphy to diagnosis of wrist injuries undetected on plain films: a prospective study of 154 cases]. Fractures of the scaphoid must be diagnosed quickly to avoid persistent nonunion and the risk of osteoarthritis. Despite meticulous physical examination and adequate x-ray detection, numerous occult fractures still go unrecognized. The aim of this prospective study was to analyze the pertinence of quantitative radio-scintigraphy (QRS) presently used for the diagnosis of occult wrist fractures. Quantitative radio-scintigraphy (QRS) is a new imaging technique associating quantitative bone scan and numerical fusion between bone scan images and x-ray images. We conducted a prospective study between November 1994 and March 1999 to evaluate the pertinence of this examination technique for the diagnosis of occult wrist fractures in patients presenting clinical symptoms suggestive of wrist fracture but whose plain x-rays were initially considered normal. Further some patients had several series of plain x-rays performed at several week intervals in order to search for fractures becoming progressively visible on plain x-rays. After the QRS data was acquired, these patients' x-rays were reviewed again. We also compared the cost of QRS, repeated x-rays, bone scan and MRI at the Besan\u00e7on University Hospital. QRS was performed in all 154 patients and revealed 61 fractures (56 single-line and 5 multiple-line fractures). Thus 43.5% of these patients had occult wrist fractures (41% of which involved the carpal scaphoid). Occult fracture of the wrist, particularly the carpal scaphoid, is frequent. Repeated x-ray examination does not increase the rate of detection of these fractures. Bone scans may also fail to reveal occult fractures. MRI is a key examination in the assessment of wrist fracture symptoms, but is presently not available in all institutions. Bone scan is classically insufficiently precise. QRS is a rapidly available low-cost examination which we have found to be indispensable for the diagnosis of occult wrist fractures. With early QRS diagnosis, the risk of neglected carpal scaphoid fracture and subsequent nonunion and osteoarthritis together with the personal, social, and medicolegal consequences can be avoided."}
{"id": "15669563", "title": "[MR imaging accuracy in the prediction of bone graft healing potential in scaphoid non-union].", "content": "[MR imaging accuracy in the prediction of bone graft healing potential in scaphoid non-union]. To determine the accuracy of MR imaging in predicting bone graft healing in patients with scaphoid non-union. 21 patients with scaphoid non-union were examined with MR imaging prior to bone grafting (conventional bone graft in 14 cases and vascularized bone graft in 7 cases). The protocol included unenhanced and Gadolinium-enhanced sequences. Signal intensity and homogeneity of the proximal fragment was analysed by two independent radiologists. MRI findings were then correlated to the postoperative rate of union. Healing occurred in 17 cases and failed in 4 cases with a mean follow up of 14 months. Intraobserver agreement in MR reading was respectively 0.92 et 0.86. Interobserver agreement was 0.88. On Tl-wi, the proximal fragment was hyperintense in 1 case (with positive surgical result), heterogeneous low signal intensity in 7 cases (healing in n = 7) and homogeneous low signal intensity in 13 cases (healing in n = 9). On T2-wi, the proximal fragment was hypointense in 4 cases (healing in n = 3), homogeneous high signal in 5 cases (healing in n = 4) and heterogeneous high signal intensity in 12 cases (healing in n = 10). After Gadolinium injection, enhancement was homogeneous in 4 cases (healing in n = 4), heterogeneous in 8 cases (healing in n = 7) and absent in 9 cases (healing in n = 6). In the group with no enhancement, 5 patients were treated with vascularized bone graft (healing in n = 4) and 4 with conventional bone graft (healing in n = 2). The absence of enhancement of the proximal scaphoid fragment leads to poor surgical results except for vascularized bone graft."}
{"id": "15625519", "title": "[Carpal scaphoid chondroma complicated by fracture: a case report].", "content": "[Carpal scaphoid chondroma complicated by fracture: a case report]. The carpal scaphoid is an uncommon localization for chondroma. Ten cases have been reported in the literature. We report a new case of right carpal scaphoid chondroma complicated by fracture in a 30 year-old man. The diagnosis was strongly suggested by the computed tomography scan and confirmed at pathology examination of the operative specimen. Treatment consisted in tumor enucleation and a cortico-cancellous graft to fill the gap followed by plaster case immobilization. Clinical and radiological outcome was favorable."}
{"id": "15587040", "title": "Concurrent scaphoid fracture with scapholunate ligament rupture.", "content": "Concurrent scaphoid fracture with scapholunate ligament rupture. Various patterns of traumatic carpal injury have been described in the literature. Although the combination of scaphoid fracture and scapholunate ligament rupture in the same injury has been reported and these lesions can no longer be considered mutually exclusive, little information is available on management methods and the long-term results of such seemingly paradoxical complex injuries. This study reviews 11 previously described cases and reports an additional two cases of concurrent scaphoid fracture with scapholunate ligament rupture. This concurrent injury has two presentations; namely perilunate fracture-dislocation, which is the most common presentation, and complex scaphoid fracture. No single mechanism of injury exists that accounts for these complex injuries. High-energy trauma was the only characteristic common to all these cases. Most cases had unsatisfactory radiographic results including scaphoid nonunion, avascular necrosis of the lunate or the proximal pole of the scaphoid and arthrotic wrist changes at an average follow-up of 11 months. Managing these difficult problems needs critical recognition and repair of both bony and ligamentous damage. Early proximal row carpectomy or four-corner midcarpal fusion is another option when these injuries preclude stable reduction and fixation."}
{"id": "15580844", "title": "Comparison of computer display monitors for computed radiography diagnostic application in a radiology PACS.", "content": "Comparison of computer display monitors for computed radiography diagnostic application in a radiology PACS. A study to compare the performance of the following display monitors for application as PACS CR diagnostic workstations is described. 1. Diagnostic quality, 3 megapixel, 21 inch monochrome LCD monitors. 2. Commercial grade, 2 megapixel, 20 inch colour LCD monitors. Two sets of fifty radiological studies each were presented separately to five radiologists on two occasions, using different displays on each occasion. The two sets of radiological studies were CR of the chest, querying the presence of pneumothorax, and CR of the wrist, querying the presence of a scaphoid fracture. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed for diagnostic performance for each presentation. Areas under the ROC curves (AUC) for diagnosis using different monitors were compared for each image set and the following results obtained: Set 1: Monochrome AUC = 0.873 +/- 0.026; Colour AUC = 0.831 +/- 0.032; Set 2: Monochrome AUC = 0.945 +/- 0.014; Colour AUC = 0.931 +/- 0.019; Differences in AUC were attributed to the different monitors. While not significant at a 95% confidence level, the results have supported a cautious approach to consideration of the use of commercial grade LCD colour monitors for diagnostic application."}
{"id": "15577596", "title": "16-Detector multislice CT-skeletal scintigraphy image co-registration.", "content": "16-Detector multislice CT-skeletal scintigraphy image co-registration. Co-registration of bone scintigrams with radiographs has been used in the diagnosis of wrist injuries, although co-registration of tomographic bone scintigraphy with computed tomography (CT) has not been widely reported. We describe a co-registration technique in patients with possible wrist fracture. The technique was used on three patients and involved placing the wrist on a Perspex board and tracing the outline of the forearm and hand with a pen to try and ensure accurate repositioning on the board for the two sets of imaging. Four point source markers were attached to the board during both examinations. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed 4 h after injection Tc-methylenediphosphonate (MDP), using a dual-headed gamma camera. CT images were acquired on a 16-detector CT unit. The SPECT and CT images were co-registered with commercially available image fusion software. The centre of the four markers was identified in both sets of images and a rigid body point match algorithm was used. Before patient studies, the technique was tested using a phantom. In all the phantom and clinical studies it was possible to identify the positions of all the markers. There were varying degrees of success in patient repositioning. We describe a technique that may aid the fusion of functional images from skeletal scintigraphy with the exquisite anatomical detail from the latest CT technology, in the detection of occult wrist fractures. The technique may aid fracture localization and/or detection and might help distinguish the clinically important scaphoid fractures from other benign carpal lesions."}
{"id": "15576228", "title": "Early corrective osteotomy for a malunited Colles' fracture using volar approach and calcium phosphate bone cement: a case report.", "content": "Early corrective osteotomy for a malunited Colles' fracture using volar approach and calcium phosphate bone cement: a case report. We report a case of malunion of the distal radius after a Colles' fracture treated with osteotomy using a volar approach combined with calcium phosphate bone cement grafting of the dorsal defect via a drill hole from the volar cortex 6 weeks after the injury. One year and 4 months after surgery range of motion and grip strength were improved and x-rays of the wrist showed complete union of the distal radius with progressive absorption of the calcium phosphate bone cement."}
{"id": "15515749", "title": "Value of bone scintigraphy in patients with carpal trauma.", "content": "Value of bone scintigraphy in patients with carpal trauma. We planned this study to evaluate the role of bone scintigraphy in patients with suspected carpal fracture and normal or suspicious radiographs following carpal injury. Three-phase bone scintigraphy using Tc-99m-MDP was performed on 32 patients with negative radiographs but clinically suspected fracture at two weeks after the trauma. Focally increased radiopharmaceutical uptake was interpreted as a fracture. The final diagnosis was established with clinical follow-up. Twelve (38%) patients had a normal scan excluding fracture. Twelve patients had a single fracture. Multifocal fracture was present in 8 (25%) patients. Eight patients showed scaphoid fractures; of these three showed single scaphoid fracture, and the other five patients revealed accompanying fractures. Distal radius fractures and carpal bone fractures other than scaphoid were both observed in 12 patients. These were eleven fractures of distal radius; three fractures of pisiform; two fractures of hamate; and single fractures of lunate, trapezium and triquetrum. In one patient there was fracture of a first metacarpal bone. In patients with suspected carpal bone fracture and normal or suspicious radiographs, bone scintigraphy can be used as a reliable method to confirm or exclude the presence of a scaphoid fracture and to detect clinically unsuspected fractures of distal radius and other carpal bones."}
{"id": "15514541", "title": "Investigation of computed tomographic scan concurrent criterion validity in doubtful scaphoid fracture of the wrist.", "content": "Investigation of computed tomographic scan concurrent criterion validity in doubtful scaphoid fracture of the wrist. Rapid diagnosis of scaphoid bone fracture in the wrist is important so that appropriate treatment can be started. If a fracture is clinically suspected without being visible on radiography, further investigation has to be conducted to reveal a fracture or to rule it out. The objective of this study was to investigate the validity of computed tomographic (CT) scanning and bone scintigraphy compared with the clinical fracture rate during follow-up of 1 year for examining patients with a suspected scaphoid fracture. Bone scintigraphy and CT scanning were performed in 29 patients with persistent clinical suspicion of a scaphoid bone fracture 5 to 10 days after trauma. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of the CT scan were 100%. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of bone scintigraphy were 78%, 90%, 78%, and 90%, respectively. Seven patients showed a fracture on both CT scanning and bone scintigraphy. Eighteen patients showed no fracture on both CT scanning and bone scintigraphy. A false-positive bone scintigram showed up in two patients and a false-negative bone scintigram in another two patients. CT scanning is a rapid, simple, valid method for demonstrating or ruling out a scaphoid fracture and is superior to bone scintigraphy."}
{"id": "15513602", "title": "Experience with the AO Pi-plate for displaced intra-articular fractures of the distal radius.", "content": "Experience with the AO Pi-plate for displaced intra-articular fractures of the distal radius. We have used open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) with the AO pi-plate in 32 displaced, intra-articular fractures of the distal radius. The indication was a displaced intra-articular fracture with a step-off of more than 1 mm and a gap between fragments of more than 3 mm, judged from the primary computed tomograms (CT). All fractures were classified as AO type C3. Twenty-nine patients were followed-up after a mean of 23 (9-46) months. The dorsal tilt, the radial length, the radial inclination, the articular step-off, and the intra-articular gap between fragments were substantially improved postoperatively. All the patients had excellent or good extra-articular and intra-articular alignment. Two patients had reduced extension power of the first finger. Seventeen patients had Disability of the arm, shoulder, and hand (DASH) scores of less than 10 points, five had scores between 11 and 20, three between 21 and 30, three between 31 and 40, and one patient had a score of 65 points. Complications occurred in two patients: one had a painful amputation neuroma of the superficial radial nerve, and one developed adhesions of the flexor tendons of the second and third fingers because the screws were too long and had penetrated the tendon sheaths. We conclude that the AO pi-plate is an excellent option for the most comminuted fractures of the distal radius."}
{"id": "15510095", "title": "Hamate hook fracture in a 17-year-old golfer: importance of matching symptoms to clinical evidence.", "content": "Hamate hook fracture in a 17-year-old golfer: importance of matching symptoms to clinical evidence. To describe the importance of correlating symptoms with objective clinical findings and appropriate diagnostic imaging in a patient with traumatic wrist pain. A 17-year-old golfer had persistent left wrist pain of 4 months' duration that began while playing golf. Approximately 1 week after injury, he was diagnosed with a scaphoid fracture and was splinted. He reported that his pain did not decrease with splinting or with subsequent physical therapy, and on dismissal from orthopedic care he could not use the wrist well enough to return to golf. The patient was found to have marked point tenderness at the hamate. Although plain-film radiography was negative, secondary computed tomography of the wrist showed a fracture to the hook of the hamate. A referral was made to an orthopedic surgeon and surgical excision of the hook of the hamate was recommended because of the failure of union at the fracture site. This case shows the significance of follow-up diagnostic imaging in a patient who does not respond as expected. In addition, it stresses the importance of the doctor of chiropractic in the diagnostic process, although the patient may have been treated and released by another physician."}
{"id": "15476009", "title": "Cost analysis of traditional follow-up protocol versus MRI for radiographically occult scaphoid fractures: a pilot study for the Accident Compensation Corporation.", "content": "Cost analysis of traditional follow-up protocol versus MRI for radiographically occult scaphoid fractures: a pilot study for the Accident Compensation Corporation. Assessment of the cost-effectiveness of early magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for suspected radiographically occult scaphoid fractures. Methods Compare costs of patients presenting acutely with suspected scaphoid injuries (managed either with traditional follow-up radiographs and plasters) versus early MRI to exclude a fracture. Results The average medical cost for the control group was NZ470 dollars versus NZ533 dollars in the MRI group. The cost to exclude a fracture was NZ437 dollars with MRI versus NZ459 dollars for the traditional protocol. Weekly compensation costs were comparable. Conclusions The early diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fractures has clear clinical advantages. The use of MRI in this situation is cost-effective, and we recommend that it be offered as part of the routine investigative work-up available for this difficult, but common, clinical scenario."}
{"id": "15368727", "title": "Diagnosis and management of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fracture is a common injury encountered in family medicine. To avoid missing this diagnosis, a high index of suspicion and a thorough history and physical examination are necessary, because early imaging often is unrevealing. Anatomic snuffbox tenderness is a highly sensitive test for scaphoid fracture, whereas scaphoid compression pain and tenderness of the scaphoid tubercle tend to be more specific. Initial radiographs in patients suspected of having a scaphoid fracture should include anteroposterior, lateral, oblique, and scaphoid wrist views. Magnetic resonance imaging or bone scintigraphy may be useful if the diagnosis remains unclear after an initial period of immobilization. Nondisplaced distal fractures generally heal well with a well-molded short arm cast. Although inclusion of the thumb is the standard of care, it may not be necessary. Nondisplaced proximal, medial, and displaced fractures warrant referral to an orthopedic subspecialist."}
{"id": "15354754", "title": "[Nutcracker fractures of the navicular and cuboid].", "content": "[Nutcracker fractures of the navicular and cuboid]. Nutcracker fractures of the tarsal navicular and cuboid usually result from dislocations of the midtarsal (Chopart's) joint. The classic pathomechanism consists of forced adduction or abduction (medial or lateral stress) mostly in combination with axial force. The resulting injuries are frequently misjudged or underestimated with respect to their potential consequences for global foot function. Radiographic imaging includes plain radiographs in exact standard projections and computed tomographic scanning. Classification of Chopart fracture-dislocations is based on the proposed pathomechanics and the direction of the dislocating force. The goals of open reduction and stable internal fixation of Chopart fracture-dislocations are realignment of the medial and lateral columns of the foot, restoration of joint congruity and temporal transfixation in case of ligamentous instability to ensure proper ligament healing."}
{"id": "15346064", "title": "Dorsal transscaphoid-transtriquetral perilunate dislocation in pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid.", "content": "Dorsal transscaphoid-transtriquetral perilunate dislocation in pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid. A patient reported that he sustained a minor fall on the outstretched hand in hyperextension, pronation, and in ulnar deviation. Initial radiographs suggested dorsal transscaphoid-transtriquetral perilunate dislocation. Traditionally, however, this injury is the result of a high-energy impact. A CT scan obtained after closed reduction of the dislocation revealed not only a fresh fracture of the triquetrum but also two corticalized fragments of the scaphoid. A former major fall on this hand and a normal scaphoid of the other hand made pseudarthrosis more likely than scaphoid bipartition. Arthrography revealed intact lunotriquetral and scapholunate ligaments, precluding the possibility of preexisting ligamentous instability. Pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid with a loss of scaphoid function as a mechanical tie-rod of the carpus is most likely responsible for this complex injury. This is the first clinical study that shows that single scaphoid discontinuity without preexisting ligamentous carpal instability may lead to complex perilunar dislocation in minor trauma."}
{"id": "15336746", "title": "Gadolinium enhanced MR assessment of proximal fragment vascularity in nonunions after scaphoid fracture: does it predict the outcome of reconstructive surgery?", "content": "Gadolinium enhanced MR assessment of proximal fragment vascularity in nonunions after scaphoid fracture: does it predict the outcome of reconstructive surgery? This study investigated whether the outcome of bone graft and internal fixation surgery for nonunion of scaphoid fractures could be predicted by gadolinium-enhanced MR assessments of proximal fragment vascularity. Sixteen established scaphoid fracture nonunions underwent gadolinium-enhanced MR scanning before surgical treatment with bone grafting and internal fixation. No relationship was found between MR enhancement and the outcome of surgery. Union was achieved in eight of the 12 nonunions with more than 50% enhancement, and three of the four with less than 50% enhancement, of the proximal pole. Furthermore, union was achieved in both of the nonunions which had less than 25% enhancement of the proximal pole. We conclude that enhanced MR assessments of the vascularity of the proximal fragment of a scaphoid fracture nonunion do not accurately predict the outcome of reconstructive surgery."}
{"id": "15307302", "title": "[Percutaneous osteosynthesis of scaphoid fractures: preliminary results].", "content": "[Percutaneous osteosynthesis of scaphoid fractures: preliminary results]. To evaluate the results of percutaneous osteosynthesis of scaphoid fractures and to verify whether this approach is more effective than conservative treatment. A total of 25 patients were treated by percutaneous osteosynthesis at the Emergency and Accident Department of the University Hospital in Olomouc from March 1, 2002, till March 31, 2003. According to the Herbert classification, five had type A2 fractures, four had type B1 and 16 had type B2 fractures. The surgery was performed at 20.6 days on average after injury. HBS screw (Martin) fixation was used in 22 patients, a 3.5 mm cortical screw and a 4.0 mm cancellous bone screw (Poldi 5 set, Kladno, CZ) were inserted in one and two patients, respectively. The wrist was immobilized with a brace in 11 patients. After a short hospitalization, the patients were referred to an out-patient department for follow-up. We evaluated the duration of postoperative immobilization, necessity to initiate assisted rehabilitation, length of follow-up at the out-patient department and the functional outcome. The control group comprised of 43 patients who were treated between March 1999 and December 2001. Only patients with type A, B1 or B2 scaphoid fractures managed conservatively were included. Nine patients were excluded because, during treatment, they were converted to conventional open osteosynthesis through the palmar approach. In the study group, the average postoperative immobilization with a brace was 17 days; assisted rehabilitation was initiated in 50% of the patients and resulted in excellent functional outcomes; the average follow-up was 10.3 weeks. In one patient, the fractured scaphoid failed to heal. In the control group, the average postoperative immobilization was 7.5 weeks; assisted rehabilitation was started in 53% of the patients and 23% reported persistent complaints; the average follow-up was 11.4 weeks. To achieve a good outcome of percutaneous osteosynthesis of a fractured scaphoid, it is important to make a precise diagnosis based on CT scan. This approach is suitable for type A2, B1 and B2 fractures. A good outcome of surgery depends on the correct insertion of a screw among fragments in order to achieve adequate compression among fragments. The necessity of postoperative immobilization and its manner and duration are current issues of discussion. Our preliminary results show that, in indicated fractures types, the percutaneous osteosynthesis of a fractured scaphoid provides better functional outcomes than conservative treatment."}
{"id": "15293923", "title": "[Coronal fractures of scaphoid].", "content": "[Coronal fractures of scaphoid]. Two cases of frontal fracture of the scaphoid proximal pole after a high energy trauma are reported. Diagnosis was delayed in both cases and was only possible with a CT-scan. One fracture was slightly displaced: the patient was treated conservatively and followed during 11 years with an excellent result. The other patient was operated on because of persistent pain and malunion. Only during surgery was the correct diagnosis made and due to scaphoid malunion, a proximal row carpectomy was performed. At a post operative assessment, in both cases, X-rays showed a double contour of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. We believe than an arthroCT-scan or MRI is necessary to assess the fracture displacement and search for an associated ligamentous injury."}
{"id": "15291195", "title": "Stress fracture of the tarsal navicular.", "content": "Stress fracture of the tarsal navicular. Stress fractures of the lower extremity are common among military members and athletes at all levels of participation. They typically occur when an individual begins a new or different type of physical training or during periods of abrupt increase in the level of training. Stress fractures represent an incomplete remodeling of bone that occurs secondary to repetitive mechanical loading. In response to this increased loading, the osteoclastic resorption of lamellar bone outpaces the ability of the osteoblasts to create new lamellar bone, eventually leading to structural failure. The following case report reviews the typical clinical presentation, imaging findings, and treatment of the tarsal navicular stress fracture."}
{"id": "15290486", "title": "Wrist injuries; diagnosis with multidetector CT.", "content": "Wrist injuries; diagnosis with multidetector CT. The aim of the study was to assess acute-phase multidetector CT (MDCT) findings in wrist injuries. We retrieved all emergency room MDCT requests processed in the period from August 2000 to May 2003. All patients with a wrist injury who underwent MDCT initially were included. Imaging studies were evaluated in relation to injury mechanism, fracture location, and fracture type. A total of 6422 MDCT examinations were performed during this 34-month period, and 38 patients (24 male, 14 female, age range 21-73 years, mean age 40 years) met the inclusion criteria. MDCT revealed 56 fractures and 7 dislocations in 29 patients. In 9 patients (24%) MDCT findings were normal. Eleven patients (29%) underwent surgical procedures. The main injury mechanism was a fall (58%). In 33 cases the primary radiograph was available. Compared to primary radiographs, MDCT revealed 9 occult fractures, mainly in small carpal bones. In 14 cases a suspected fracture (of the scaphoid in 7 cases) was ruled out by MDCT. Due to high-quality two-dimensional reformatting, MDCT examinations were not dependent on the wrist's position in the CT gantry. In the comparison with radiography, MDCT detected occult fractures and ruled out suspected fractures, both mainly in the small carpal bones. High-quality two-dimensional reformats gave significant information about the fracture anatomy. MDCT provides fast and valuable information in assessing complex wrist fractures or when the primary radiograph is equivocal."}
{"id": "15274268", "title": "MRI and plain radiography in the assessment of displaced fractures of the waist of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "MRI and plain radiography in the assessment of displaced fractures of the waist of the carpal scaphoid. We treated 50 patients with fractures of the waist of the scaphoid in a below-elbow plaster cast for up to 13 weeks. Displacement of the fragments was assessed independently by two observers using MRI and radiographs performed within two weeks of injury. The MRI assessments showed that only the measurement of sagittal translation of the fragments and an overall assessment of displacement had satisfactory inter- and intra-observer reproducibility and revealed that nine of the 50 fractures were displaced. Only three of the 49 fractures with adequate follow-up failed to unite, and all were displaced with more than 1 mm of translation in the sagittal plane. If the MRI assessment of displacement of the fracture was used as the measurement of choice, assessment of displacement on the initial scaphoid series of radiographs showed a sensitivity of between 33% and 47% and a positive predictive value of between 27% and 86%. Neither observer was able correctly to identify more than 33% to 47% of the displaced fractures from the plain radiographs. Although the overall assessment of displacement and gapping and translation in the coronal plane on the plain radiographs influenced the rate of union, none of these parameters identified all three fractures which failed to unite. We conclude that the assessment of displacement of scaphoid fractures on MRI can probably be used to assess the likelihood of union although the small number of nonunions limits the power of the study. In contrast, the assessment of displacement on routine radiography is inaccurate and of less value in predicting union."}
{"id": "15232430", "title": "Assessment of articular displacement of distal radius fractures.", "content": "Assessment of articular displacement of distal radius fractures. Intraarticular step and gap displacements represent the most common indication for surgical treatment of distal radius fractures. Most often, treatment decision making relies only on good-quality plain radiographs taken before and after reduction with measurement accuracy maximized by using the longitudinal axis method. When plain radiographs alone prove insufficient, CT scans or tomograms will significantly improve interobserver and intraobserver reliability of measurements, especially when evaluated using the arc method. Tomography is an effective method for postoperative evaluation of fractures immobilized in splints or casts. The role of MRI in assessing intraarticular distal radius fractures is limited to confirming injuries to carpal ligaments or the triangular fibrocartilage complex. Intraoperatively, we use fluoroscopy to obtain 30 degrees cephalad posteroanterior views and as 22 degrees lateral views to best observe articular surface reduction. Our current operative indications include fractures with radiocarpal or distal radioulnar joint step or gap deformities greater than 1-2 mm, gross distal radioulnar joint instability, or those with extensive metaphyseal comminution rendering them particularly unstable after closed reduction. In general, we tend to lean toward operative fixation in younger, more active patients."}
{"id": "15230772", "title": "Imaging of the symptomatic type II accessory navicular bone.", "content": "Imaging of the symptomatic type II accessory navicular bone. Accessory ossicles of the foot are commonly mistaken for fractures. The accessory navicular is one of the most common accessory ossicles of the foot. There is a higher incidence in women and the finding might be bilateral in 50-90%. This entity is usually asymptomatic, although populations with medial foot pain have a higher prevalence. Three types of accessory navicular bone have been described. The type II accessory navicular is the most commonly symptomatic variant with localized chronic or acute on chronic medial foot pain and tenderness with associated inflammation of overlying soft tissues. Plain radiographic identification of the accessory navicular is insufficient to attribute symptomatology. Ultrasound allows for comparison with the asymptomatic side and localization of pain. Bone scintigraphy has a high sensitivity but positive findings lack specificity. Magnetic resonance imaging is of high diagnostic value for demonstrating both bone marrow and soft tissue oedema."}
{"id": "15217588", "title": "MRI diagnosis of fracture of the scaphoid bone: impact of a new practice where the images are read by radiographers.", "content": "MRI diagnosis of fracture of the scaphoid bone: impact of a new practice where the images are read by radiographers. To investigate whether magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) radiographers are able to evaluate MRI examinations with regard to scaphoid fractures to save patients unnecessary immobilization and clinical and radiographic examinations, and to reduce the costs for the hospital as well as society in general. Over a 1-year period 224 consecutive patients with a suspected clinical scaphoid fracture but negative radiography were referred for MRI and examined within 11 hours. The MR images were primarily evaluated by the MRI radiographer on duty. Other fractures and bone edema were not reported because these were not part of the work-up protocol agreed upon by the radiology and the orthopedic departments. The following weekday a final report was provided by a radiologist. For the economical analysis the official price-list for Danish hospital service was used. The MRI radiographers reported 43 scaphoid fractures, whereas the radiologist ultimately diagnosed only 36 scaphoid fractures (16.1% of patients) (sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 96.3%). Six of the seven false-positive fractures occurred in patients with edema of the scaphoid. The seventh false-positive was a fracture of the capitate. The hospital saved at least 20,000 and the social care system 70.000. It is possible to provide an acute MRI service to patients with clinically suspected fracture of the scaphoid and a normal plain radiograph. The MR images can be primarily read by sufficiently trained MR radiographers. This new work-up protocol reduces the cost for society."}
{"id": "15192475", "title": "Detection of finger clubbing and primary lung tumor on Tc-99 MDP bone scintigraphy in a patient with a scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Detection of finger clubbing and primary lung tumor on Tc-99 MDP bone scintigraphy in a patient with a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "15172387", "title": "MR imaging findings in ulnar-sided wrist impaction syndromes.", "content": "MR imaging findings in ulnar-sided wrist impaction syndromes. Ulnar-sided wrist impaction syndromes are a common source of ulnar pain and limitation of motion. These conditions refer to a group of pathologic entities that result from repetitive or acute forced impaction between the distal ulna and ulnar carpus or distal radius and surrounding soft tissues. MR imaging allows earlier detection of the bone and soft-tissue lesions that are present in the different ulnar-sided wrist impaction syndromes and is helpful in formulating the extensive differential diagnosis in patients with ulnar wrist pain and limitation of motion."}
{"id": "15151098", "title": "[Arthroscopy in the diagnosis and therapy of wrist disorders].", "content": "[Arthroscopy in the diagnosis and therapy of wrist disorders]. Arthroscopy of the wrist is a method facilitating the establishment of diagnosis in patients with wrist complaints which may also serve for surgical management of some of the causes of wrist pathology. The author presents his first experience with carpal arthroscopy as a diagnostic method as well as a therapeutic technique performed in one or two stages. A total of 34 patients, 12 women and 22 men, in the age range of 14 to 64 years, underwent carpal arthroscopy. This was performed to treat acute or chronic conditions in 16 and 18 patients, respectively. Arthroscopy was carried out with the hand in vertical traction, using distraction forces of 50 to 70 N, from the approach between the third and fourth or/and the fourth and fifth extensor compartments, in order to inspect the mediocarpal joint by an arthroscope with a diameter of 2.4 mm. Neither a tourniquet nor a pump was employed. When a lesion was detected, it was treated by arthroscopy or an open procedure in one surgical procedure. When indicated, further surgical intervention followed. The arthroscopic inspection revealed triangular fibrocartilagenous complex (TFCC) lesions in 18 patients. Injury to the scaphoid-lunate (SL) ligament was found in 16 patients. One patient had a combined lesion of the triquetral-lunate and SL ligaments, two showed a SL lesion together with a distal radius fracture, three were diagnosed with pseudoarthrosis of the scaphoid bone and one with synovitis after rheumatoid arthritis. In two patients, adhesions in the radiocarpal joint following a fracture of the distal radius were found and shaved. A total of 22 patients were treated by arthroscopic surgery; 19 underwent open procedures in one stage and five were indicated for secondary surgery. Wrist arthroscopy has been reported in the literature as the only method that can reveal damage to SL ligaments not shown by X-ray or magnetic resonance imaging examination. During arthroscopy, several interventions can directly be carried out by this procedure, such as treatment of the TFCC, and thus relieve the patient's complaints. Arthroscopy is irreplaceable in the diagnosis of dynamic carpal instability or injury to TFCC in ulnar-carpal impingement. Our experience suggests that arthroscopically-guided osteosynthesis of the distal radius has great prospects. In our hospital acute arthroscopy is indicated when carpal connective tissue lesions, potentially leading to wrist instability, are suspected, when damage to carpal ligaments is found by X-ray examination or when an acute TFCC lesion is suspected. Arthroscopically-guided osteosynthesis of the distal radius appears to be a prospective method. In patients with chronic complaints, wrist arthroscopy is indicated in suspected TFCC lesions with ulnar-carpal impingement, in chronic carpal synovitis, and before sperious operations on the carpal bones in order to ascertain the state of cartilage and plan the appropriate surgery."}
{"id": "15145480", "title": "Scaphoid nonunions treated with vascularised bone grafts: MRI assessment.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunions treated with vascularised bone grafts: MRI assessment. To assess the value of MR imaging (MRI) with regard to union, graft viability and proximal pole bone marrow status, after use of vascularized bone grafts for treating scaphoid nonunions. Vascularized bone grafts from the distal radius were used to treat 47 scaphoid nonunions resulting from fractures or enchondromas. Clinical and imaging evaluation was used for the pre- and postoperative assessment of all patients. Apart of conventional radiographs obtained in all cases, 15 patients were also assessed postoperatively with MRI at 3 months. From these 15 patients, eight were assessed preoperatively with MRI whereas nine had serial MRI evaluations at 6 and 12 months. The clinical follow-up time of this subgroup of 15 patients ranged from 6 to 27 months. All patients showed clinical signs of union within 12 weeks form the procedure and at the latest follow-up they experienced complete (10 cases) or almost complete (five cases) relief from pain. Both plain and contrast-enhanced MRI obtained at 3 months showed viability of the bone graft in all cases. At 3 months union was established with plain radiographs in 12 patients at both sides of the graft and in three patients between the graft and proximal pole. At 3 months plain MRI showed nonunion in four patients (two between graft and proximal pole, two between graft and distal pole and one at both sides of the graft) whereas contrast-enhanced MRI revealed only one case of nonunion between graft and proximal pole. Four patients were considered to have osteonecrosis of the proximal pole intraoperatively. Two of them showed necrosis of the proximal pole with preoperative and postoperative plain radiographs and three of them with plain postoperative MRI. Contrast-enhanced MRI at 3 months showed postoperative reversal of necrotic changes in all four scaphoids. MRI also revealed bone marrow oedema of the carpal bones surrounding the scaphoid in 14 cases. Serial MRI at 6 and 12 months, obtained in nine patients, revealed resolution of the bone marrow oedema of the surrounding bones and full graft incorporation in all cases. Contrast-enhanced MRI is able to demonstrate the early union after treatment of scaphoid nonunions with vascularised bone grafts allowing thus earlier mobilisation. In addition, MRI can assess the viability of the proximal pole and the graft as well as the postoperative bone marrow oedema-like lesions of the surrounding bones."}
{"id": "15142688", "title": "Arthroscopic findings in wrists with severe post-traumatic pain despite normal standard radiographs.", "content": "Arthroscopic findings in wrists with severe post-traumatic pain despite normal standard radiographs. This study assessed the role of diagnostic arthroscopy following a wrist injury in patients with normal standard radiographs, an unclear clinical diagnosis and persistent severe pain at 4 to 12 weeks. Forty-three patients were included after conservative management had failed to improve their wrist pain so that a stability test could be performed satisfactorily and underwent arthroscopy within 12 weeks. Arthroscopy revealed recent pathology in 41 wrists, of which 17 had significant ligament lesions that might have benefited from acute repair. We conclude that patients with marked persistent post-traumatic symptoms despite conservative management are likely to have sustained ligament injuries despite normal radiographs. We therefore recommend that under these circumstances an arthroscopy is carried out within 4 weeks if the patient and surgeon wish to acutely repair significant ligament injuries."}
{"id": "15140480", "title": "Ultrasound for the early diagnosis of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Ultrasound for the early diagnosis of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture. To test the ability of ultrasound to diagnose clinically suspected occult scaphoid fractures. Eighteen wrists in 18 patients with an average age of 35 years (range, 10-77 years) were seen in the emergency room, each with a single traumatic wrist injury, snuffbox tenderness, swelling, and a negative wrist x-ray result. They were evaluated in this prospective, blind, controlled study by physical examination, x-ray, and high-resolution ultrasound. One hand surgeon performed the examination, and ultrasounds were read by a musculoskeletal radiologist. Patients were immobilized in a thumb spica splint and then seen in the office 1 to 14 days after the emergency room visit, at which time a repeat physical examination, wrist x-ray, and the single investigative ultrasound were done using the opposite wrist as a control. All patients were immobilized and evaluated until symptoms resolved or x-ray showed scaphoid fracture site resorption or callus, in which case they were kept immobilized until healed. Ultrasound identified correctly 7 of 9 cases that were eventually positive for scaphoid fracture on plain x-ray. Ultrasound was read correctly as negative in 8 of 9 x-ray-negative cases; this was statistically significant. The 1 false-positive case had radioscaphoid arthrosis and radial wrist swelling. Sensitivity was 78% and specificity was 89%. The positive predictive value was 88% and negative predictive value was 80%. We recommend that high-frequency ultrasound be used to investigate occult suspected scaphoid fractures because of its ability to allow early diagnosis and to eliminate the need for a more invasive or expensive diagnostic test in most cases."}
{"id": "15119251", "title": "Scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "15100130", "title": "MRI in the diagnosis of cartilage injury in the wrist.", "content": "MRI in the diagnosis of cartilage injury in the wrist. Our purpose was to evaluate the accuracy of MRI in identifying articular cartilage abnormalities in the distal radius, scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum of patients with wrist pain. Eighty-six MRI examinations of the wrist in 85 patients (41 indirect MR arthrograms and 45 unenhanced [nonarthrographic] MR images) were evaluated. The study population consisted of 47 male (54.7%) and 38 female (45.3%) patients with an average age of 37.5 years (range, 7-62 years). Three experienced musculoskeletal radiologists who were unaware of surgical findings retrospectively evaluated the MRI examinations for cartilage abnormalities in the distal radius, scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum. All patients underwent arthroscopy of the radiocarpal joint with inspection of the articular surfaces of the distal radius, scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum. The articular cartilage was evaluated on the basis of the 5-point scale of the Outerbridge classification system. When at least two of the three radiologists had concordant interpretations, sensitivity for abnormalities in the distal radius was 27%; the scaphoid, 31%; the lunate, 41%; and the triquetrum, 18%. Specificity for the distal radius was 91%; the scaphoid, 90%; the lunate, 75%; and the triquetrum, 93%. Weighted kappa values among the three observers showed only fair agreement (0.279-0.360). High-grade more extensive cartilage lesions were no more accurately identified than low-grade lesions. Indirect MR arthrograms were not statistically more sensitive, specific, or accurate than unenhanced studies. No bone was more frequently or less frequently graded correctly or incorrectly with statistical significance. The variables of sex, age, and the presence of multiple bones with lesions did not affect accuracy. Our findings suggest that MRI of the wrist with the techniques described is not adequately sensitive or accurate for diagnosing cartilage defects in the distal radius, scaphoid, lunate, or triquetrum."}
{"id": "15085478", "title": "Imaging of athletic wrist and hand injuries.", "content": "Imaging of athletic wrist and hand injuries. Sports-related injuries of the wrist and hand are commonly encountered in clinical practice. Athletic injuries create special challenges for the orthopedic surgeon and radiologist, as these patients expect to recover quickly and return to the same athletic endeavors that caused their original injuries. A thorough understanding of the mechanism of injury and imaging findings are necessary for accurate diagnosis and effective therapy. This knowledge allows the clinician to effectively educate the athlete concerning the risks, complications, and prognosis of the injury and its treatment. This article will review mechanisms of injury, imaging findings, and some therapeutic options of common sports-related injuries to the wrist and hand."}
{"id": "15081854", "title": "Soft tissue signs in wrist trauma.", "content": "Soft tissue signs in wrist trauma."}
{"id": "15062216", "title": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular.", "content": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. Tarsal navicular stress fractures present a difficult diagnostic and treatment dilemma for the orthopedic physician of an active individual. Patients often complain of diffuse, poorly-defined symptoms and have a paucity of physical findings. Initial diagnostic evaluation often. fails to recognize navicular stress fractures which results in delayed diagnosis and treatment. A bone scan is sensitive in detecting this entity and the clinician should use this examination in any patient who is suspected of having a navicular stress fracture. After a navicular stress fracture is confirmed, a CT scan is required to identify the extent of the fracture. The progression of navicular stress fractures is fairly predictable; treatment can be tailored based on the needs of the individual as well as the stage of presentation. Nonsurgical and surgical options are effective treatments for this disorder."}
{"id": "15062213", "title": "Fractures of the navicular.", "content": "Fractures of the navicular. Generally, large or significantly displaced intra-articular navicular fractures are treated best by surgical intervention. Open reduction and internal fixation of these injuries allow anatomic restoration of adjacent joint surfaces and preservation of length and stability along the medial column of the foot; intervention must not disrupt the already tenuous blood Supply of the tarsal navicular because of the associated risks of avascular necrosis and nonunion. The unique morphology and vital role of the navicular as a cornerstone of the talonavicular joint require every effort to maintain the congruity and motion of this joint to avoid later fusion. The likelihood for successful reduction decreases with increasing grades of injury. The naviculo-cuneiform joint, alternatively, requires stability for proper foot function and can be fused, if necessary, to improve fixation or enhance vascularity to the navicular. External fixation, bone grafting (often and early), and limited peritarsal fusion also have evolved into useful aids, under certain circumstances, to facilitate the goals of navicular fracture management. Early postoperative range of motion, prolonged protected weight bearing, and aggressive patient counseling as to the severity and long-term implications of these injuries also are paramount to success. Caution also must be exercised in managing navicular dislocations because of the potential long-term complications of redislocation or painful flatfoot deformity if alignment is not maintained. Navicular fracture care remains a challenge to the orthopedic surgeon; successful surgical intervention continues to hinge upon a careful balance between an operative exposure that is limited enough to avoid further devascularization but extensive enough to permit anatomic reduction and rigid internal fixation."}
{"id": "15060773", "title": "[Incorrect classification of extra-articular distal radius fractures by conventional X-rays. Comparison between biplanar radiologic diagnostics and CT assessment of fracture morphology].", "content": "[Incorrect classification of extra-articular distal radius fractures by conventional X-rays. Comparison between biplanar radiologic diagnostics and CT assessment of fracture morphology]. Thirty-five displaced fractures of the distal radius, classified by standard radiographs as extra-articular type A2 and A3 fractures according to the AO classification, were investigated before operative treatment by computed tomography. The comparative analysis surprisingly revealed an involvement of the articular surface of the distal radius in 57%. The intra-articular fractures were classified after CT as C1 in 15%, C2 in 65%, and C3 in 20%. The distal radioulnar joint was involved in 80% of the type C injuries and showed a dorsal subluxation in 17% of all cases. Similar to the results of type A2 and A3 fractures, type B and C fractures of the distal radius also may be underestimated in standard radiographs. This concerns important components such as the involvement of the radiocarpal joint surface and concomitant injuries of the distal radioulnar joint. Since joint congruency is an important predictor of outcome, CT scanning should be used more generously for planning and controlling surgical therapy."}
{"id": "14751113", "title": "Rotational deformity in malunited fractures of the distal radius.", "content": "Rotational deformity in malunited fractures of the distal radius. To evaluate rotational deformity in malunited fractures of the distal radius and its effect on forearm rotation. Thirty-seven patients with a symptomatic malunion of the distal radius (25 with dorsal angulation and 12 with volar angulation) were assessed for rotational deformity of the distal fragment. Spiral computed tomographic scans were taken of both wrists. Rotational deformity was evaluated by comparing the radial torsion angle of the injured and uninjured sides according to Frahm. Multivariable regression analyses were used to identify the radiologic parameter that had the most important influence on forearm rotation. Of the 37 patients, 23 showed a rotational deformity of the distal radius. In both dorsally and volarly angulated malunions, pronation and supination deformities were identified. There was a tendency toward more pronation deformities with volar malunion. Volar angulated malunion with a rotational deformity of less than 10 degrees showed the smallest amount of forearm supination. Losses of pronation-supination did not correlate with the amount of rotational deformity. This study showed that rotational deformity is common with angulated malunions of the distal radius. The effect on forearm rotation should not be overestimated. Pretreatment computed tomographic scanning of both wrists to identify and measure malrotation of the distal radius may be helpful to improve the outcome after corrective osteotomy."}
{"id": "14600775", "title": "Diagnosis of acute fractures of the extremities: comparison of low-field MRI and conventional radiography.", "content": "Diagnosis of acute fractures of the extremities: comparison of low-field MRI and conventional radiography. The aim of this study was to compare low-field MRI (0.2 T) and conventional radiography for the detection of acute fractures of the distal part of the extremities. X-ray and MRI examinations of 78 (41 fractures, 37 without fracture) patients with the clinical suspicion of an acute fracture in the distal part of the extremities were compared. Four experienced radiologists, two for each of the two modalities, independently analyzed the images. Interobserver variability and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis for both methods were established. The MRI and conventional radiography revealed an accuracy of 81.4 and of 79.5%, respectively, in the detection of acute fractures. The diagnostic accuracy of MRI to detect fractures in the hand and forefoot proved to be significantly inferior to conventional X-ray examinations. On the other hand, MRI achieved a better accuracy for the examination of bones near a large joint. The interobserver variability for both methods was rated as moderate. In ROC analysis both methods were rated as good. There was no statistical difference of the accuracy between low-field MRI and conventional radiography in the detection of acute fractures of the distal part of the extremities. Consequently, a routine use of low-field MRI as an alternative to conventional radiography to diagnose acute fractures of the extremities seems not to be justified."}
{"id": "14750060", "title": "[Dorsal double plating for fractures of the distal radius--a biomechanical concept and clinical experience].", "content": "[Dorsal double plating for fractures of the distal radius--a biomechanical concept and clinical experience]. This article describes the anatomical and biomechanical rationale for stable internal fixation of distal radius fractures using a dorsal approach. The three column biomechanical model is illustrated. Advances in the understanding of the anatomy, the biomechanical model of the three columns and our clinical experience with dorsal double plating have lead to the development of a new set of precontoured 2.4 mm Titanium plates with the option for head locking screws."}
{"id": "14727035", "title": "[Diagnostics at the wrist].", "content": "[Diagnostics at the wrist]. Injuries of the wrist are difficult to diagnose because of the complex and narrow anatomic structures. Based on precise clinical examination, X-rays, CT, and MRI are valuable additional tools that can be used. If a fracture is suspected a CT scan is preferable. In the case of a suspected soft tissue or ligamentous injury and non-vital fragments or necrosis MRI is suitable. Other diagnostic tools are presently of minor importance for the wrist. Technical innovations allow better visualization and classification of lesions. However, exact knowledge of the tools is important."}
{"id": "14711785", "title": "Gold--now you see it, now you don't.", "content": "Gold--now you see it, now you don't."}
{"id": "14686823", "title": "Management of scaphoid nonunions.", "content": "Management of scaphoid nonunions. Scaphoid nonunions result in a predictable pattern of wrist arthrosis. To minimize the incidence of arthrosis, the goal of treatment should be consolidation of the fracture with the scaphoid in anatomic alignment. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging scans can aid evaluation of carpal collapse, scaphoid collapse, scaphoid nonunion, bone loss, and detection of osteonecrosis. Nonunion of the scaphoid waist may result in a humpback deformity, increasing the chances of further collapse and arthrosis. This collapse deformity must be approached volarly with an intercalary bone graft and internal fixation. A dorsal approach to proximal scaphoid nonunions allows easier access for removing the necrotic bone from the proximal pole and applying accurate screw or pin fixation. Vascularized bone graft is recommended to manage scaphoid nonunions with osteonecrosis."}
{"id": "14668518", "title": "Nonunion of a triquetral body fracture. A case report.", "content": "Nonunion of a triquetral body fracture. A case report."}
{"id": "14652390", "title": "Percutaneous internal fixation of selected scaphoid nonunions with an arthroscopically assisted dorsal approach.", "content": "Percutaneous internal fixation of selected scaphoid nonunions with an arthroscopically assisted dorsal approach. Preliminary reports have indicated that selected scaphoid nonunions-i.e., those that are well aligned and without extensive sclerosis or bone resorption at the nonunion site-can be treated effectively with internal fixation alone. We examined the feasibility of percutaneous fixation in a series of such nonunions. A consecutive series of fifteen patients with fibrous union or nonunion of a carpal scaphoid fracture with minimal sclerosis or resorption at the nonunion site were treated with rigid fixation alone (without bone graft) with a headless compression screw inserted with a dorsal percutaneous technique. Clinical examination, standard radiographs, and computed tomography scans confirmed union in all patients at an average of fourteen weeks. Nonunions treated less than six months after the injury healed faster than those treated later (p < 0.02). According to the Mayo modified wrist score, there were twelve excellent and three good results. The results in our series were due to careful examination and grading of the scaphoid nonunions preoperatively. The findings in this small series support the observation in earlier reports that percutaneous repair of selected scaphoid nonunions requires only rigid fixation to achieve healing."}
{"id": "14642507", "title": "Carpal bone postures and motions are abnormal in both wrists of patients with unilateral scapholunate interosseous ligament tears.", "content": "Carpal bone postures and motions are abnormal in both wrists of patients with unilateral scapholunate interosseous ligament tears. The recent ability to measure 3-dimensional in vivo carpal kinematics has facilitated the noninvasive study of complex carpal bone motion. In this study we examined the flexion/extension carpal kinematics of both wrists in 8 patients with unilateral scapholunate interosseous ligament (SLIL) tears by using computed tomographic (CT) imaging and a markerless bone registration technique. Carpal bone neutral posture and flexion/extension motion of both wrists of the injured patients were compared with the same parameters in wrists of 10 uninjured male and female volunteers (normals). The neutral posture of the injured scaphoid and lunate were significantly more extended than those of normals. In these patients, however, the postures of the scaphoid and lunate in the contralateral uninjured wrists also were abnormal and were similar to those of the injured wrist. In addition, extension of the lunate and flexion of the scaphoid in both the injured and uninjured wrist were significantly different from normal but not different from each other. This study was unable to attribute altered carpal posture and motion to SLIL tears because abnormalities were found in both wrists of patients with unilateral injury. The etiology of abnormal wrist kinematics in the asymptomatic wrist of patients with unilateral tears of the scapholunate ligament is not known."}
{"id": "14612641", "title": "Displacement of the distal radioulnar joint of clinically symptom-free patients.", "content": "Displacement of the distal radioulnar joint of clinically symptom-free patients. There are three methods for evaluation of dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint using computed tomography: the radioulnar line method, the epicenter method, and the congruity method. However, some patients who are clinically symptom-free have abnormal findings from computed tomography of the distal radioulnar joint according to the aforementioned criteria. In addition, these methods are qualitative, not quantitative definitions. Forty patients were included in this study. Computed tomography scans of the wrists were done. The variation of displacement of the distal radioulnar joint was measured. By the epicenter method, the 95% confidence interval (mean +/- 1.96 standard error) was from 0.0026 to 0.1114 in supination and from -0.1171 to 0.0446 in pronation. By the radioulnar line method, the 95% confidence interval was from 0.0026 to 0.0479 in supination and from -0.0065 to 0.0745 in pronation. By the modified radioulnar line method, the 95% confidence interval was from 0.1778 to 0.2752 in supination and from 0.0990 to 0.2310 in pronation. There was a wide range of the displacement of the distal radioulnar joint in patients with clinically normal wrists. The results can be regarded as reference points for normal variation of the distal radioulnar joint. This can help to differentiate the causes of internal derangement of the wrist."}
{"id": "14599826", "title": "Suture anchor repair of ulnar-sided triangular fibrocartilage complex tears.", "content": "Suture anchor repair of ulnar-sided triangular fibrocartilage complex tears. Traditional open repair of traumatic triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) tears requires a relatively extensive exposure, and arthroscopic repair, though conceptually simple, can be technically demanding. We describe a mini-open suture anchor technique that, while minimally invasive, is easier to perform than previously described open or arthroscopic techniques. Results achieved using this technique in eight cases compare favourably with those reported for other techniques."}
{"id": "14577721", "title": "Osteoid osteoma of scaphoid.", "content": "Osteoid osteoma of scaphoid. Osteoid osteoma is infrequently localized to the hand. Initially the lesion may cause nonspecific symptoms. A 14-year-old boy presented with spontaneous onset swelling and pain wrist for 2 months. Initially he was suspected of having tuberculosis, but radiographs revealed a sclerotic lesion of the scaphoid and the sedimentation rate was not high. CT scan of the wrist showed a double-ring sign, indicating osteoid osteoma. Lesion was curetted and the nidus excised. This resulted in rapid resolution of the symptoms."}
{"id": "14577051", "title": "[Functional results two years after the treatment of a delayed diagnosed scapho-capitate fracture syndrome].", "content": "[Functional results two years after the treatment of a delayed diagnosed scapho-capitate fracture syndrome]. The scapho-capitate syndrome (Fenton syndrome) is so rare that diagnosing is a real challenge to every clinician. Therefore, its primary treatment is not always possible. In this case we are reporting about a delayed open treatment of a Fenton syndrome ten days after the original injury. Open reduction was performed via a dorsal approach and the capitate fracture was stabilized with K-wires and the scaphoid fracture with screw fixation. After postoperative immobilization of the wrist using an external fixator for six weeks the patient was already able to work again only twelve weeks after surgery."}
{"id": "14577050", "title": "[Computer-assisted planning and corrective osteotomy in distal radius malunion].", "content": "[Computer-assisted planning and corrective osteotomy in distal radius malunion]. Corrective osteotomy of the malunited distal radius following fracture was performed in six patients using virtual planning and computer-assisted surgery. Radius joint angles and ulnar variance were assessed by CT scan and compared with the uninvolved wrist. Dorsal tilt was improved by 6 degrees, radial inclination by 3 degrees, radius rotation by 7 degrees and ulnar variance by 4.6 mm. Results were almost equivalent to the noninvolved radius. Corrective osteotomy in extraarticular malunited distal radius fracture was optimized by computer-assisted planning and surgery."}
{"id": "14569481", "title": "Evaluation of physical findings in acute wrist trauma in the emergency department.", "content": "Evaluation of physical findings in acute wrist trauma in the emergency department. The aim of the study was to evaluate the value of physical findings to predict fracture in patients with acute wrist trauma. This prospective clinical study was conducted over a period of four months from December 1998. The patients who were older than 18 years and presenting with acute wrist trauma within 24 hours of the time of injury were included in the study. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was done for the patients who had inconsistency between clinical and radiographic diagnosis. Fifty-five patients were included in the study. Four fractures were diagnosed on the MRI of eight patients who have contradiction between clinical diagnosis and X-ray studies. The positive predictive values of edema, localized tenderness, pain on active and passive motion, pain with grip and pain in supination were found as 95.2%, 67.3%, 77.3%, 91,7%, 89.3%, and 96%, respectively. Physical findings having high sensitivity were found as localized tenderness (94.3%), pain on the active and passive motion (97.1%, 94.3%, respectively). Pain on the active and passive motion were determined as physical findings with highest negative predictive values (%90.9, %89.5, respectively). Edema, pain on grip and supination, and especially pain on passive and active motion and localized tenderness can be valuable to predict or rule out fracture in acute wrist trauma cases who have no deformity."}
{"id": "14534010", "title": "[Artifactual image by intra-arterial injection of 99mTC-MDP simulating an osteoarticular condition].", "content": "[Artifactual image by intra-arterial injection of 99mTC-MDP simulating an osteoarticular condition]."}
{"id": "14521890", "title": "Scaphoid and pronator fat stripes are unreliable soft tissue signs in the detection of radiographically occult fractures.", "content": "Scaphoid and pronator fat stripes are unreliable soft tissue signs in the detection of radiographically occult fractures. To determine the clinical value of scaphoid and pronator fat stripes in identifying occult underlying scaphoid and distal radius fractures, respectively. In our department, all patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures and normal scaphoid series of radiographs undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the wrist. We selected 50 cases with unequivocal MRI evidence of scaphoid fracture, 50 cases with distal radius fracture and 50 cases with no MRI evidence of bony injury. All 150 initial plain radiographs were examined retrospectively in random order without knowledge of the MRI findings and the scaphoid and pronator fat stripes scrutinized. The scaphoid fat stripe was abnormal in only 25 cases (50%) with confirmed scaphoid fracture on MRI. The pronator fat stripe was abnormal in 13 cases (26%) with confirmed distal radius fracture. In the 50 cases with no MRI evidence of bony injury, the scaphoid fat stripe and pronator fat stripe were abnormal in 25 (50%) and 15 (30%) cases, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity for an abnormal scaphoid fat stripe was 50%. The sensitivity and specificity for an abnormal pronator fat stripe was 26 and 70%, respectively. Scaphoid and pronator fat stripes are poor predictors of the presence or absence of underlying occult fractures."}
{"id": "14518627", "title": "Cast adrift: Gortex cast liners allow greater patient activity.", "content": "Cast adrift: Gortex cast liners allow greater patient activity. Extremity fractures are a common injury, with nearly 1.5 million cases reported in the United States in 1998. Treatment often involves lengthy periods of immobilization. This report outlines the use of a Gortex cast liner by a subject who was able to engage in swimming and scuba diving during the healing process. We report that a Gortex cast liner may be considered for an active patient who is keen to return to limited activities during fracture healing. Apparently because of a lack of knowledge of their existence, physicians currently are underutilizing this method of casting in active patients. The use of Gortex liners elsewhere has been reported to have higher patient and physician satisfaction in both use and performance, with no reported detrimental effects on outcome."}
{"id": "14507506", "title": "Preiser's disease: identification of two patterns.", "content": "Preiser's disease: identification of two patterns. A large series of patients with Preiser's disease was reviewed to compare 2 potentially different categories of this disorder: complete versus partial vascular impairment of the scaphoid bone as determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Nineteen patients with Preiser's disease were identified retrospectively from 2 institutions. Using MRI criteria, 2 disease patterns were identified: diffuse necrosis and/or ischemia of the scaphoid (type 1 disease, 11 cases) and segmental vascular impairment of the scaphoid (type 2 disease, 8 cases). Risk factors for osteonecrosis, treatment methods, and serial radiographs were reviewed in all cases. Sixteen patients were examined for the purpose of this study at an average follow-up of 25 months. MRI signal changes of necrosis and/or ischemia involved 100% of the scaphoid in type 1 cases and on average approximately 42% in type 2 cases (range, 33% to 66%). In type 1 cases, regardless of the treatment used, the scaphoid typically fragmented and collapsed. In type 2 cases, scaphoid architecture was altered minimally after similar treatment methods. A history of wrist trauma was significantly more common in type 2 cases, and the results of treatment were generally better in this group of patients (mean Mayo modified wrist scores, 86 vs 58 points). This study supports the concept of 2 patterns of scaphoid involvement in Preiser's disease. Type 1 cases are characterized by MRI signal changes of necrosis and/or ischemia involving the entire scaphoid bone. Patients in this group have a propensity for scaphoid deterioration. Type 2 cases have MRI signal changes involving only part of the scaphoid. These patients commonly report a history of wrist trauma, show fewer tendencies toward scaphoid fragmentation, and may have a more favorable clinical outcome."}
{"id": "12964093", "title": "[Results of Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure with distal radio-ulnar fusion and segmental resection of the ulna].", "content": "[Results of Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure with distal radio-ulnar fusion and segmental resection of the ulna]. The Kapandji-Sauv\u00e9 procedure was performed in 75 patients between 1990 and 2003. The most important indication was painful and restricted forearm rotation after fracture of the distal radius combined with dislocation or destruction of the distal radioulnar joint. 25 patients were followed up using a modified Martini score. We found a significant improvement of forearm rotation, reduction of pain and a good patient satisfaction in a long-term follow-up ranging from three to 12 years."}
{"id": "12954266", "title": "Coronal fractures of the proximal scaphoid: the proximal ring sign.", "content": "Coronal fractures of the proximal scaphoid: the proximal ring sign. We present two coronal fractures of the proximal scaphoid which were both missed in the acute stage as interpretation of initial radiographs was difficult. In both cases, recognition of the so-called \"Proximal Ring Sign\" on the PA ulnar deviation radiographs may have helped diagnosis. CT scans were necessary to fully demonstrate the fractures. Open reduction and internal fixation, performed 2 and 4 months after the injury, resulted in union in both cases."}
{"id": "12945637", "title": "The use of medical imaging-based kinematic analysis in the evaluation of wrist function and outcome.", "content": "The use of medical imaging-based kinematic analysis in the evaluation of wrist function and outcome. The authors developed a 3D CT technique to analyze in vivo variations in carpal bone position based on 3D reconstruction of transverse CT data in 5 wrist positions. The subject groups analyzed consisted of 40 asymptomatic volunteers and 30 patients with various wrist disorders (fractures, instabilities). In 11 anatomic specimens, this kinematic analysis was completed by a radiographic morphologic study and an investigation of capsular ligament anatomy. Clinical applications showed that carpal bone motion in the injured wrist was not significantly different from contralateral, asymptomatic wrist motion. In both wrists of patients with unilateral pathology, however, significant differences were observed as compared with asymptomatic volunteers. Scaphoid motion was bilaterally altered, suggesting the existence of anatomic or kinematic factors predisposing to certain carpal pathologies."}
{"id": "12904981", "title": "Wrist fracture in a patient undergoing electroconvulsive treatment monitored using the \"cuff\" method.", "content": "Wrist fracture in a patient undergoing electroconvulsive treatment monitored using the \"cuff\" method. We report on a case of a 64-year-old female patient who received electroconvulsive treatment for major depression. The patient sustained a fracture to the distal radius of the arm blocked by the \"cuff\" method (Smith fracture). Subsequent investigations revealed that she was suffering from osteoporosis. This case report underlines the importance of special treatment procedures for osteoporotic patients and other patient groups at risk for fractures. We recommend screening for osteoporosis in routine pre-ECT evaluation, even in younger patients, and propose not attaching the cuff to the arm in those at risk for fractures. In our patient, electroconvulsive therapy was safely continued using higher doses of succinylcholine and without the cuff method."}
{"id": "12875574", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress injuries in athletes.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress injuries in athletes."}
{"id": "12859103", "title": "Geometry of carpal scaphoid in Thais: anatomical study.", "content": "Geometry of carpal scaphoid in Thais: anatomical study. In order to develop new surgical techniques on, and fixation devices for, carpal scaphoid fractures in Thais, the authors determined the mean and standard deviation of the length, width and thickness of 141 carpal scaphoid bones on 93 left and 48 right wrists from the skeletons of 99 Thai males and 42 Thai females. The deceased averaged 60 years (range, 22 to 89). The scaphoid length averaged 25.59 mm; the dorsal width at the distal, middle and proximal poles averaged 14.89, 10.23 and 7.08 mm, respectively; the palmar width at the distal, middle and proximal poles averaged 14.22, 9.81 and 7.44 mm, respectively; and the thickness at the distal, middle and proximal poles averaged 9.77, 10.96 and 9.19 mm, respectively. The authors found no signficant difference (p = 0.96) in the length and width of the Thai carpal scaphoid bone between the left and right wrist. The widths of the dorsal and palmar sides at the distal end were wider than the proximal end and tapered from the distal to the proximal pole. The thicknesses were constant throughout the length of the bone, ranging between 9 and 11 mm."}
{"id": "12832176", "title": "Diagnostic scanning for suspected scaphoid fractures: an economic evaluation based on cost-minimisation models.", "content": "Diagnostic scanning for suspected scaphoid fractures: an economic evaluation based on cost-minimisation models. To compare, the costs of diagnosing suspected scaphoid fractures using various protocols with various scanning techniques. Analysis of the cost-minimisation models. The models were prepared after an audit of the existing protocol for suspected scaphoid fractures. Departments of Accident and Emergency and Orthopaedics, Leighton General Hospital, Crew, Cheshire, UK. A total of 124 patients presenting to A&E with suspected scaphoid fractures between 1 December 1999 and 1 May 2000. Costs to the hospital budget in ruling out or diagnosing scaphoid fractures in these patients. The cost using an existing protocol that does not routinely involve scanning was pounds 15,554. Projected costs for many (but not all) of the alternative protocols involving routine use of scanning procedures were found to be lower or comparable. Protocols based on diagnostic scanning for suspected scaphoid fractures can be comparable to a protocol which does not rely on scanning techniques because they can avoid repeated radiographs, clinical appointments and plaster cast changes. However, any such protocol must be tailored on the basis of the workload, and the availability of resources."}
{"id": "12818859", "title": "MR imaging of ulnocarpal impaction after fracture of the distal radius.", "content": "MR imaging of ulnocarpal impaction after fracture of the distal radius. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the incidence of ulnocarpal impaction after distal radius fracture using MR imaging and to correlate imaging findings with those of radiography and clinical findings. Ulnocarpal impaction is a common finding after distal radius fracture. MR imaging can detect characteristic bone marrow changes of the lunate early after the trauma. A significant correlation exists between MR imaging findings and the extent of posttraumatic ulnar variance and pain levels."}
{"id": "12813867", "title": "[Three cases of chronic volar dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint that were treated with the Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure].", "content": "[Three cases of chronic volar dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint that were treated with the Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure]. Three cases of chronic volar dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint were treated with the Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure. All patients were in their twenties. They visited our clinic complaining limitation of forearm wrist rotation and pain around the wrist for more than 6 weeks after an injury. Radiograph and CT scan revealed chronic volar dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint. Closed reduction failed. The Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure was required to prevent the distal radioulnar joint from becoming unstable after open reduction. Range of motion of the injured wrist improved greatly, pain disappeared and they were able to return to sports after the operation and rehabilitation. Therefore, the Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure is effective in curing chronic volar dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint."}
{"id": "12813349", "title": "Bilateral navicular body fractures.", "content": "Bilateral navicular body fractures."}
{"id": "12782882", "title": "The effect of pronation and supination on the minimally displaced scaphoid fracture.", "content": "The effect of pronation and supination on the minimally displaced scaphoid fracture. The amount of rotation that occurs at the scaphoid waist fracture site with pronation and supination of the forearm is studied in 10 upper extremities from cadavers. Two colinear metal markers were placed in the osteotomized scaphoid and a below-the-elbow cast was applied. Spiral volumetric computed tomography scanning of the scaphoid was done with multiplanar reformation to evaluate displacement of the metal markers. Four of the 10 specimens also were studied without any immobilization. The total magnitude of motion from pronation to supination averaged 0.2 mm in the specimens with a below-the-elbow thumb spica cast, and 2.4 mm in specimens without immobilization. The current study showed no significant rotation at the minimally displaced scaphoid waist fracture site during pronation and supination in a below-the-elbow cast. Furthermore, there is unacceptable rotation at the fracture site in the absence of a cast. Based on this study, a below-the-elbow thumb spica cast seems adequate for fracture immobilization; however, clinical correlation is needed."}
{"id": "12772060", "title": "[Combined palmar and dorsal approach for complex distal radius fractures].", "content": "[Combined palmar and dorsal approach for complex distal radius fractures]. The purpose of this paper was to describe our management of complex fractures of the distal radius using a combined dorsal and palmar approach and to evaluate the radiological and clinical outcome. Twenty out of 26 patients with complex fractures of the distal radius, which were operated on from 1996 to 2000 using a combined dorsal and palmar approach, were followed-up on an average of 28 months. According to AO fracture classification, there were one A3, two B3, three C1, two C2 and twelve C3 fractures. Six patients had associated injuries. The treatment was standardized: closed reduction on the day of injury; depending on the soft-tissue situation an external fixator or a forearm splint was applied; every patient underwent a computed tomography before the definitive surgical procedure, which was performed between one and 28 days after the injury when the swelling had subsided. According to the fracture patterns, the distal radius was stabilized using double plates (3), a palmar plate (11) or a dorsal plate (4), screws (1) or K-wires (1) combined with the initially applied external fixator (6). Follow-up included a radiological and clinical examination. The results were graded with use of the modified Mayo Wrist Score. Disability was assessed using the DASH score. All fractures healed, some with minor malunion. Fourteen of the 20 patients had osteoarthrotic changes. Compared to the opposite wrist, range of motion for flexion/extension was reduced by 25 %, radial/ulnar deviation by 20 % and forearm rotation by 5 %. Grip strength averaged 15 % less than that of the opposite side. Modified Mayo Wrist Score revealed 65 % excellent, 30 % good and 5 % poor results. DASH score averaged 18 points."}
{"id": "12763944", "title": "Early MRI in the management of clinical scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Early MRI in the management of clinical scaphoid fracture. The incidence of MRI detected scaphoid and other wrist fractures was determined in a clinical setting in patients with suspicion of scaphoid injury and negative initial radiographs. The influence on subsequent patient management was examined. Patients attending Accident and Emergency over a 25 month period with suspected scaphoid fracture and normal scaphoid series plain films were referred for wrist MRI. Scans comprising T(1) weighted spin echo and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) coronal sequences were performed in a dedicated extremity low field MRI scanner within 14 days of injury. Subsequent effects on patient management were ascertained by clinician completed questionnaire. 195 patients were scanned. There were 37 scaphoid fractures (19%), 28 distal radius fractures (14%), 9 fractures of other carpal bones (5%) and 119 studies with no fracture. The management of 180 patients (92%) was altered as a result of the MRI scan. Occult fractures are present in almost two fifths of patients with suspected scaphoid fracture and normal initial plain films. Half of these are scaphoid fractures. MRI allows an early definitive diagnosis to be made, changing patient management in over 90% of cases and should be regarded as the gold standard investigation in this population."}
{"id": "12752005", "title": "Modified carpal box technique in the diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Modified carpal box technique in the diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures. To establish and test the clinical efficacy of a new diagnostic algorithm with the extensive utilization of modified carpal box radiography (mX-CB) in the detection of scaphoid fractures. Initial and early follow-up radiographic evaluation of 146 suspected scaphoid fractures were carried out by mX-CB. Patients with unconfirmed diagnosis were referred to CT. Patients were followed for 1 year after injury. Sensitivity, specificity and interobserver agreement of reading mX-CB images were determined statistically. No non-union or avascular necrosis was seen at 1 year after the injury. 90% of the fractures were diagnosed by mX-CB, only 6.8% of the patients needed referral to CT. Sensitivity of mX-CB at initial presentation was 81.6%. Interobserver agreement was very high among evaluators of mX-CB images. Extensive utilization of mX-CB as primary and early follow-up investigation resulted in high initial diagnostic accuracy and low referral rate to a more expensive diagnostic modality."}
{"id": "12730737", "title": "Predicting the failure load of the distal radius.", "content": "Predicting the failure load of the distal radius. The distal radius is an important site for the early detection of patients at risk for fracture. Since measuring bone strength in vivo is not possible, we evaluated which bone assessment method of the forearm would best predict failure load of the distal radius and computed a factor of risk for wrist fracture (Phi wrist). Thirty-eight cadaveric forearm specimens were measured by five different techniques to assess bone density, bone mineral content, geometry and trabecular structure at the distal forearm. The bone assessment techniques included dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) of the radius, peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) of the 4% and 20% distal sites of the radius, DXA of the phalanges, digital X-ray radiogrammetry of the forearm (DXR-BMD), and quantitative ultrasound of the radius. The failure load of each excised radius was determined by simulating a fall on an outstretched hand. The pQCT measurements of polar stress-strain index and cortical content explained the greatest portion of variance in failure load (r2=0.82-0.85). Bone mineral content measures were generally better predictors of failure load (r2=0.53-0.85) than the corresponding volumetric or areal bone mineral density values (r2=0.22-0.69) measured by either pQCT or DXA. Multiple regression analysis showed that the addition of a bone geometry measure improved the ability of a bone density measure alone to predict failure load. There was high variability in the ability of different techniques and different variables within a given technique to predict failure load. Estimates of the factor of risk for wrist fracture (Phi wrist) revealed that the women in this study would have been likely to fracture their distal radius upon falling from a standing height (Phi wrist= 1.04), whereas the men would have likely withstood the impact without fracturing their wrist (Phi wrist= 0.79)."}
{"id": "12690849", "title": "Scaphoid fractures: current treatments and techniques.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures: current treatments and techniques. Scaphoid fractures are among the most common fractures of the bones of the wrist and usually result from a forceful extension of the wrist. If the diagnosis cannot be established by clinical and radiographic examination, bone scans are recommended and are preferred over tomography or MRI, which are more expensive diagnostic procedures. Scaploid fractures should be classified as either undisplaced, stable or displaced, unstable. Nonsurgical treatment with cast immobilization (short arm-thumb spica cast) is recommended for stable fractures; however, there is increased interest in percutaneous screw (or pin) fixation. The recommended treatment for unstable scaphoid fractures is open reduction and screw fixation. Closed reduction and percutaneous screw or pin fixation can be considered in minimally displaced or reducible fractures, whereas open reduction is recommended for all other displaced fractures. The following treatment protocols are recommended: (1) bone scan or, if necessary, tomography for early diagnosis; (2) percutaneous screw fixation of nondisplaced or minimally displaced scaphoid fractures as an alternative to treatment with a thumb spica cast; (3) open reduction of displaced scaphoid fractures; (4) early mobilization of stable fractures after internal fixation; and (5) the possible use of a playing splint after athletic injuries when secure internal fixation is achieved."}
{"id": "12678369", "title": "Internal fixation after intra-articular fracture of the distal ulna.", "content": "Internal fixation after intra-articular fracture of the distal ulna. We describe a patient who sustained a displaced isolated intra-articular fracture of the distal ulna, causing limitation of rotation of the forearm. The extent of displacement of the fracture which was not evident on plain radiographs was revealed by CT. The fracture was reduced and internally fixed using a standard technique applicable to the fixation of fractures of the radial head. Full movement was restored. An isolated injury to the distal ulna is rare and requires careful clinical and radiological assessment."}
{"id": "12666296", "title": "Combined fracture of the distal radius and scaphoid in children. Report of 2 cases.", "content": "Combined fracture of the distal radius and scaphoid in children. Report of 2 cases. The authors report 2 cases of concomitant scaphoid and distal radial fractures, a rare combination of lesions in children. The first case was in a 13-year-old boy who presented a transverse midscaphoid fracture associated with a Salter type II distal radial fracture. The second concerned a 10-year-old boy who presented a bilateral wrist injury. On the left side, a distal forearm fracture with anterior displacement was associated with a transverse midscaphoid fracture. On the right side, there was only a distal forearm fracture. Scaphoid fracture associated with distal radial fracture seems to have been more frequently reported in the literature during the last decade, probably because it is more frequently recognised. In fact, children with distal forearm injury should be well examined both clinically and radiologically in order to search for an associated scaphoid fracture. Reduction of the radius fracture should be done carefully to avoid possible displacement of the scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "12665700", "title": "In vivo measurement of apparent trabecular bone structure of the radius in women with low bone density discriminates patients with recent wrist fracture from those without fracture.", "content": "In vivo measurement of apparent trabecular bone structure of the radius in women with low bone density discriminates patients with recent wrist fracture from those without fracture. The purpose of this cross-sectional case-control study was to determine whether indices of bone structure at the 4% site of the radius discriminate women who have sustained a recent low-energy fracture of the contralateral distal radius (n = 21) from women with similar bone density and no history of fracture (n = 21). Images of the distal forearm were acquired using peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and were analyzed using in-house-developed software to determine indices of trabecular bone structure (average hole size [H(A)], maximum hole size, and connectivity index). The same images were analyzed using commercial software to determine bone density, mass, geometry, and torsional strength. The fracture group had significantly larger H(A) (p = 0.03). No other bone variable differed between groups. Individual H(A) values were compared to the mean value for young adult women (n = 42). The odds ratio (95% confidence interval) associated with an H(A) >2 SDs above the young adult mean was 5.4 (1.2-24.3). Thus, estimation of in vivo trabecular bone porosity by measuring the average diameter of the pQCT-imaged marrow spaces in the ultradistal radius identifies individuals with low bone mass most at risk for osteoporotic fracture."}
{"id": "12624687", "title": "[Clinical impact of MRI in acute wrist injuries. Indication and therapeutic consequences].", "content": "[Clinical impact of MRI in acute wrist injuries. Indication and therapeutic consequences]. This prospective study was aimed at evaluating the clinical impact of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) vs conventional radiographs in the early diagnosis of acute wrist fractures. The influence of MRI on the period of being unable to work was demonstrated. MRI was performed within a mean of 6.6 days after initial radiographs in 54 patients (56 wrists) with clinical suspicion of wrist fractures and normal plain or indistinct radiographs. MRI findings were read without knowledge of the initial radiographs. In 31 of 56 wrists MRI findings resulted in a change of diagnosis. There was a false positive diagnosis on plain radiographs in nearly one-half ( n=25) of the cases,whereas only six cases had false negative results. In 28 cases MRI allowed the detection of additional injuries of soft tissues. In 35 of 56 cases radiological follow-up was no longer necessary. In 22 of 54 patients the period of immobilization could be shortened or treatment discontinued ( n=18). The period of being unable to work was shortened in 16 of 54 patients, while in 7 of 54 patients this time span had to be prolonged for therapeutic reasons. In 31 of 54 patients MRI-based therapeutic consequences had no influence on the period of being unable to work. Our results show a high clinical impact of MRI in the detection of acute wrist fractures. Early MRI is able to reduce economic costs due to efficient therapeutic treatment and shortened periods of being unable to work. We recommend MRI immediately on the day of trauma in the presence of clinical suspicion and equivocal plain radiographs"}
{"id": "12594566", "title": "Clinical impact of MRI in acute wrist fractures.", "content": "Clinical impact of MRI in acute wrist fractures. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical impact of MRI in the early diagnosis of wrist trauma. High-resolution MR imaging was performed on a 1.5-T unit (Symphony Quantum, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) using coronal and axial T1- and T2-weighted fat-saturated turbo-spin-echo sequence via a dedicated wrist coil within a mean of 6.6 days after initial radiographs in 54 patients (56 wrists) with clinical suspicion of wrist fractures and normal plain or indistinct radiographs. Initial radiographs were evaluated independently by two senior radiologists and the hand surgeon without knowledge of the MRI findings. The initial treatment protocol was based on evaluation of plain films and clinical findings by the hand surgeon. Treatment protocol was changed after MRI examination if necessary. In 31 of 56 wrists MRI findings resulted in a change of diagnosis. There were false-positive diagnoses on plain radiographs in nearly one half ( n=25) of the patients. False-negative diagnoses on plain radiographs resulted in 6 cases. Magnetic resonance imaging detected additional injuries of soft tissue in more than one third ( n=20). In 22 of 56 wrists the period of immobilization could be shortened or ended, in 12 of 56 it was prolonged, and in 3 of 56 a surgical intervention was necessary. In 19 wrists MRI had no therapeutic consequences. Our data demonstrate the high clinical impact of MRI in the detection of acute wrist fractures. We recommend MRI of the wrist immediately on the day of trauma if there is clinical suspicion and normal plain radiographs. Accurate diagnosis by MRI examination within the first days following trauma may reduce economic costs due to shortened immobilization time in cases with a suspected fracture but plain radiographs."}
{"id": "12591669", "title": "Posttraumatic cystlike defects of the scaphoid: late sign of occult microfracture and useful indicator of delayed union.", "content": "Posttraumatic cystlike defects of the scaphoid: late sign of occult microfracture and useful indicator of delayed union. To investigate the association between radiolucencies in the scaphoid and trauma, we studied the unenhanced radiographs and CT images of 1087 adult patients. Three (0.3%) of the 1087 patients had scaphoid radiolucencies that developed after trauma. We hypothesize that in these patients a microfracture of the scaphoid or subtle fractures are the cause of persisting clinical symptoms. Persistent loading of the scaphoid due to wrist movement can lead to unrestricted compressive forces and ischemia and to the development of a bone cyst-like pathologic change, apparent on the radiograph as a radiolucency and often misreported as a cyst. An alternate term, \"cystlike defect\" or \"pseudocyst\" of the scaphoid, is suggested. Such radiolucencies are indicators of previous microfractures or an untreated episode of trauma to the scaphoid."}
{"id": "12582792", "title": "Injectable calcium phosphate bone cement Norian SRS for the treatment of intra-articular compression fractures of the distal radius in osteoporotic women.", "content": "Injectable calcium phosphate bone cement Norian SRS for the treatment of intra-articular compression fractures of the distal radius in osteoporotic women. Distal radius fracture often presents a metaphyseal void which is more extended in elderly, osteoporotic patients. Bone graft and bone substitutes are reported to be beneficial in maintaining metaphyseal reduction. We performed a prospective study on 52 menopausal, osteoporotic women with unstable intra-articular distal radius fractures to compare the outcome of percutaneous pinning and immobilisation in a cast for 6 weeks with that using injectable calcium phosphate bone cement (Norian Skeletal Repair System, SRS) to supplement pin and screw fixation and immobilisation in a cast for 3 weeks. All patients were reviewed 2 years (range 21-29 months) after surgery. Patients treated with SRS had better functional outcome, restoration of movement and grip strength ( p<0.001). In this group there was 1 mm loss of radial length, 3 degrees loss of radial inclination and 7 degrees loss of palmar tilt. In the control group radial length decreased 3 mm, radial inclination decreased 11 degrees and palmar tilt 12 degrees. Loss of reduction was significantly higher in the control group ( p<0.001). We conclude that the use of Norian SRS to supplement pin and screw fixation is effective in maintaining the reduction of unstable intra-articular distal radius fractures in osteoporotic patients and provides a better clinical outcome than percutaneous pinning."}
{"id": "12537171", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures. Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular bone are being recognized with increasing frequency in physically active persons. Diagnosis is commonly delayed, and outcome often suffers because physicians lack familiarity with the condition. Navicular stress fractures typically present in a running athlete who has gradually increasing pain in the dorsal mid-foot with occasional radiation of pain down the medial arch. Because initial plain films are often normal, the next diagnostic test of choice is triple-phase bone scan, which is positive early in the process and localizes the lesion well. After a positive bone scan, a computed tomographic scan should be obtained to provide anatomic detail and guide therapy. Nondisplaced, noncomminuted fractures respond well to six weeks of non-weight-bearing cast immobilization. Displacement, comminution, and delayed or nonunion fractures are indications for surgical open reduction internal fixation."}
{"id": "12467720", "title": "Segmentation of carpal bones from CT images using skeletally coupled deformable models.", "content": "Segmentation of carpal bones from CT images using skeletally coupled deformable models. The in vivo investigation of joint kinematics in normal and injured wrist requires the segmentation of carpal bones from 3D (CT) images, and their registration over time. The non-uniformity of bone tissue, ranging from dense cortical bone to textured spongy bone, the irregular shape of closely packed carpal bones, small inter-bone spaces compared to the resolution of CT images, along with the presence of blood vessels, and the inherent blurring of CT imaging render the segmentation of carpal bones a challenging task. We review the performance of statistical classification, deformable models (active contours), region growing, region competition, and morphological operations for this application. We then propose a model which combines several of these approaches in a unified framework. Specifically, our approach is to use a curve evolution implementation of region growing from initialized seeds, where growth is modulated by a skeletally-mediated competition between neighboring regions. The inter-seed skeleton, which we interpret as the predicted boundary of collision between two regions, is used to couple the growth of seeds and to mediate long-range competition between them. The implementation requires subpixel representations of each growing region as well as the inter-region skeleton. This method combines the advantages of active contour models, region growing, and both local and global region competition methods. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach for our application where many of the difficulties presented above are overcome as illustrated by synthetic and real examples. Since this segmentation method does not rely on domain-specific knowledge, it should be applicable to a range of other medical imaging segmentation tasks."}
{"id": "12621838", "title": "[Middle field and low field magnetic resonance tomography in wrist injuries].", "content": "[Middle field and low field magnetic resonance tomography in wrist injuries]. To evaluate the diagnostic value of magnet resonance imaging in comparison of a dedicated 0.2-T unit and a 1.0-T unit in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures and other wrist fractures. In 20 patients (14 m/6 f) with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures and a normal six view radiographic exam, magnet resonance imaging was performed first with the dedicated 1.0-T unit and afterwards with the 0.2-T unit within 7 days after trauma. T1 weighted spin-echo, STIR and T2-weighted 3D GRE sequences were performed. The 0.2 Tesla dedicated system is inferior to the 1.0 Tesla unit concerning the outcome of the 3 examiners. Especially the areas of bone bruise showed different results: each examiner detected at least two more cases of bone bruise with the 1.0 Telsa unit, which could not be defined with the 0.2 Tesla unit. This study shows, how utmost sensitive magnet resonance imaging is referring to unremoved fractures of the scaphoid and to other wrist abnormalities. Results with the 0.2 Tesla dedicated system was inferior compared to the 1.0 Tesla unit."}
{"id": "12601604", "title": "[Scapholunate ligament tears in MR arthrography compared with wrist arthroscopy].", "content": "[Scapholunate ligament tears in MR arthrography compared with wrist arthroscopy]. In a blinded study from January to July 2000, 125 patients suffering from specific complaints of the wrist were prospectively examined with direct MR arthrography. Within 24 hours an arthroscopy of the wrist was performed. With MR arthrography in 21 patients or 17 % of all patients, injury of the scapho-lunate ligament was diagnosed. In all patients this could be verified arthroscopically. In the remaining 104 patients, no SL-ligament lesions were diagnosed with the MR arthrography. However, partial lesions were found via arthroscopy in seven cases and complete lesions of the ligament were found in one case, where MRI findings expected an intact SL ligament. In the remaining 96 cases, the MRI could correctly exclude a lesion of the SL-ligament. The diagnosis of a SL-ligament lesion by means of MRI was correct in 100 % of the cases (specificity), the exclusion of such lesions in 72 % (sensitivity). Positive or negative predictive values of 100 % or 92 % were achieved. Since a sensitivity of 100 % cannot be reached at the moment, MR arthrography cannot replace arthroscopy. However, it could be a potent additional tool for wrist diagnosis if intraarticular contrast is used. It can facilitate the diagnostics and the indication for surgery of the wrist and help to reduce arthroscopic interventions for purely diagnostic purposes and without any therapeutic consequences. With improvement of the technique of magnet resonance tomography we can expect a further increase of accuracy in the clinical use of the MR arthrography in the diagnostic workup of the wrist."}
{"id": "12494385", "title": "[Narrowing of the third extensor tendon compartment in minimal displaced distal radius fractures with impending rupture of the EPL tendon].", "content": "[Narrowing of the third extensor tendon compartment in minimal displaced distal radius fractures with impending rupture of the EPL tendon]. Delayed ruptures of the extensor pollicis longus tendon (EPL) occur in about 0.7 percent following undisplaced distal radius fractures. Two possible mechanisms are mainly discussed in the literature: A mechanical irritation of the tendon caused by a sharp edge of the fractured bone and a direct microvascular compromise of the poorly vascularized tendon. In undisplaced fractures, however, a mechanical irritation seems less likely. In the cases here described we were able to demonstrate a fragment displacement in the area of Lister's tubercle suspected by the native X-ray and further evaluated by a CT scan. The use of CT scans even in minor displaced distal radius fractures involving Lister's tubercle may demonstrate a direct contact of the EPL tendon with a sharp edge of this fractured bone and make adequate surgery possible."}
{"id": "12479336", "title": "Percutaneous internal fixation of scaphoid fractures via an arthroscopically assisted dorsal approach.", "content": "Percutaneous internal fixation of scaphoid fractures via an arthroscopically assisted dorsal approach. Percutaneous internal fixation of scaphoid fractures allows for more predictable union and less morbidity than cast treatment or open internal fixation. A headless cannulated compression screw (standard Acutrak) is implanted by way of a dorsal percutaneous approach with the aid of fluoroscopy and arthroscopy to confirm screw position and fracture reduction. This technique is indicated in the correction of acute proximal pole fractures, acute waist fractures, and delayed unions that are not associated with avascular necrosis or collapse. The details of this technique are reviewed. In a consecutive series of twenty-seven fractures (seventeen waist fractures and ten proximal pole fractures) treated with arthroscopically assisted dorsal percutaneous fixation, computed tomographic scanning confirmed 100% union at an average of twelve weeks. Eighteen fractures were treated within one month after the injury, and nine were treated more than one month after the injury. In this series, the fractures that were treated early (less than one month after the injury) healed more quickly than those treated later."}
{"id": "12446162", "title": "Change of carpal alignment under anaesthesia: role of physiological axial loading on carpus.", "content": "Change of carpal alignment under anaesthesia: role of physiological axial loading on carpus. to study the effect of physiological axial loading on the carpal alignment. Patients with distal radial fracture undergoing general anaesthesia for management of their injury were employed for the present study. The contralateral normal wrist was assessed for any change in carpal alignment following the elimination of the physiological axial load under anaesthesia with complete muscle relaxation. Axial load across the wrist is known to affect carpal alignment. Axial compression is known to dorsiflex the lunate due to its dorsally thinned wedge shape. However, cadaveric experiments have also shown the axial compression to flex the whole proximal carpal row. Lateral radiographs of the uninjured wrist joint were performed in twenty patients with distal radial fracture. Radiographs were taken before and after giving general anaesthesia along with muscle relaxants and were repeated after applying the traction in line with the long axis of the radius. Anaesthesia caused scaphoid and lunate to dorsiflex with no change in scapholunate angle while, traction caused scaphoid to rotate further dorsally. Physiological axial loading due to the normal tone of the forearm muscles tends to flex the scaphoid and the lunate. This is contrary to the lunate's classical description of its tendency to dorsiflex under axial loading. Our results also failed to support the view that scapholunate interosseous ligament is in continuous tension due to the tendency of the scaphoid and lunate to move in the opposite directions. A dorsiflexed lunate need not be considered the hallmark for diagnosing the scapholunate dissociation."}
{"id": "12427003", "title": "Ruptures of flexor tendons at the wrist as a complication of fracture of the distal radius.", "content": "Ruptures of flexor tendons at the wrist as a complication of fracture of the distal radius. We report two cases of rupture of flexor tendons after fracture of the distal radius. The first case was a rupture of the flexor digitorum profundus and superficialis tendon to the index finger that happened 20 years after the fracture. The second was a rupture of the flexor pollicis longus tendon that occurred two years after, and the flexor profundus tendon to the index finger that occurred four years after the fracture. In the first case, the ruptures were caused by the bony protuberance of the radius after long interval without interference of the ulnar head."}
{"id": "12421772", "title": "Risk reduction through skeletal scintigraphy as a screening tool in suspected scaphoid fracture: a literature review.", "content": "Risk reduction through skeletal scintigraphy as a screening tool in suspected scaphoid fracture: a literature review."}
{"id": "12371028", "title": "Medical history of carpal tunnel syndrome.", "content": "Medical history of carpal tunnel syndrome. The anatomical configuration of the carpal tunnel is that of an inelastic channel. Consequently, any increase in its volume or alteration in shape will usually result in a significant increase in interstitial pressure. At a pressure threshold of 20 mm Hg to 30 mm Hg, epineurial blood flow is compromised. When that pressure is sustained, the symptoms and physical findings associated with CTS appear. Typically, patients present with intermittent pain and paresthesias in all or part of the median nerve distribution of their hand(s). As weeks and months pass, symptoms progressively increase in frequency and severity. Eventually, thenar muscle weakness develops that initially manifests itself as \"fatigue,\" or \"tiredness.\" The progressive increase in symptoms and physical findings, usually accompanied by a progressive deterioration in electrodiagnostic studies, facilitates the classification of the condition into early, intermediate, and advanced stages. The increase in interstitial pressure in the carpal tunnel is in the vast majority of cases idiopathic (spontaneous). It can also be caused by a myriad of other conditions that can be classified into three other categories: intrinsic factors that increase the volume of the tunnel (outside and inside the nerve), extrinsic factors that alter the contour of the tunnel, and repetitive/overuse conditions. In addition, there is another category of neuropathic factors that affect the nerve without increasing interstitial pressure. In rare situations CTS can present as an acute problem. Far less common than the chronic form of the condition, it can follow acute wrist trauma, rheumatologic disorders, hemorrhagic problems, vascular disorders affecting a patent median artery, and high pressure injection injuries. Prompt recognition is important, followed in most cases by urgent surgical decompression of the median nerve."}
{"id": "12228796", "title": "Trans-Atlantic hospital agreement in reading first day radiographs of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Trans-Atlantic hospital agreement in reading first day radiographs of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures. The purpose of this study was to describe the agreement between two hospitals on either side of the Atlantic Ocean in reading first day plain radiographs of suspected scaphoid fractures. Two groups of observers, one North American and one European, consisting of observers at various levels of training were compared. Kappa statistics were used to determine inter- and intra-observer agreement. The receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curves and area under this curve (AUC) for each observer were calculated to determine test performance. Scaphoid radiographs of 80 consecutive patients seen with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture were included in the study. The results of the bone scan were used as the reference standard. There is an acceptable agreement between the USA and Europe for both radiologists and orthopaedic surgeons at various levels of training (kappa 0.45-0.88). Intra-observer agreement is acceptable as well (kappa 0.46-0.86). Considering all normal or equivocal radiographs, there is slight to moderate agreement at all levels of training in and between both centres and specialities (kappa 0-0.64). Overall test performance was acceptable for all consecutive radiographs (AUC 0.65-0.82) and poor for the normal radiographs (AUC 0.46-0.65). We could not detect differences in performance due to location of the readers' hospital or institution of training. The use of more sensitive techniques should be restricted to patients with negative or equivocal radiographs in clinically suspected scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "12206941", "title": "Three-dimensional carpal kinematics in vivo.", "content": "Three-dimensional carpal kinematics in vivo. The purpose of this study was to accurately quantify three-dimensional in vivo kinematics of all carpal bones in flexion and extension and radial and ulnar deviation. The right wrists of 11 healthy volunteers were imaged by spiral CT with rotational increments of 5 degrees during ulnar-radial deviation and of five of them also during flexion-extension motion. One regular-dose scan was used and the subsequent scans during wrist motion were performed with one-tenth of the regular dose. A three-dimensional matching technique using the internal structure of the bones was developed to trace the relative translations and rotations of the carpal bones very accurately. Most of our results are in concordance with previously published in vitro data. We could, among others, substantiate proof to the statement that there is more than one kinematic pattern of the scaphoid. Furthermore, we could accurately describe small adaptive intercarpal motions in vivo of the distal carpal row. To our knowledge, this is the first time the three-dimensional in vivo kinematics of all eight carpal bones is quantified accurately and non-invasively. Kinematics of an injured wrist can be compared to these reference data. It may become possible that in this way a ligament lesion can be detected with high specificity and sensitivity, and that no other diagnostic modality will be needed. With these data we made animations with which the complex movements of the bones during different motions of the wrist can be viewed. In the future it may become possible that this analysis provides valuable information on the long-term results of operative interventions and possibly predicts results of operative techniques."}
{"id": "12203148", "title": "[Distal radius fractures and concomitant lesions. Experimental studies concerning the pathomechanism].", "content": "[Distal radius fractures and concomitant lesions. Experimental studies concerning the pathomechanism]. Since Colles (1814) first described a distal radius fracture and the publication by Dupuytren (1834), the frequency of and problems surrounding these fractures were increasingly recognised. Not only the treatment but also the formation and type of fracture were repeatedly analysed. The various theories concerning the pathomechanism led to names such as: \"tear fracture\", \"bend fracture\", \"thrust fracture\", \"compression fracture\", \"snap fracture\" and others. In our experimental studies we attempted to simulate the pathomechanism of distal radius fractures and present them pictorially. With the help of a materials testing machine, 63 prepared cadaver arms were hyperextended in the wrist joint until a radius fracture occurred. The concomitant lesions were registered radiologically and by dissection. Moreover, additional cadaver arms were deep-frozen and examined by means of computer tomography and cryosection according to Kathrein. Through experimental hyperextension it was possible to generate dorsal, central, and palmar types of fractures. We produced 42 dorsal, 14 central and 7 palmar fractures. Fundamentally, it seems that the fracture depends on the extent in which the carpal bones of the proximal row are pressed against the dorsal, central or palmar part of the articular surface of the distal radius. The subsequent dissection showed in 40 cases (63 %) mostly multiple concomitant lesions and in 23 cases (37 %) none of these. The reason for concomitant lesions may be the proportion of bone stability to the strength of ligaments. Most frequently (27 cases, i.e. 43 %), we found a destabilisation of the articular disk with or without a bony avulsion fragment (fracture of the ulnar styloid). We also commonly found ruptures of the interosseous ligaments between scaphoid and lunate (20 cases, i.e. 32 %) and lunate and triquetrum (11 cases, i.e. 18 %). It is difficult to apply knowledge gained from experimental studies on preserved cadaver arms clinically. There are of course no physiological reflexes and the slow fracture process must be taken into consideration. This holds true not only for concomitant lesions but also for the type of fracture. On the other hand, in these experimental studies it was possible to generate many realistic types of fractures with their concomitant lesions."}
{"id": "12141705", "title": "Management of scaphoid nonunion with avascular necrosis using 1, 2 intercompartmental supraretinacular arterial bone grafts.", "content": "Management of scaphoid nonunion with avascular necrosis using 1, 2 intercompartmental supraretinacular arterial bone grafts. Poor reduction or neglect of an unstable carpal scaphoid fracture may lead to scaphoid nonunion or avascular necrosis. When pre-operative suggestion of avascular necrosis of the proximal pole is confirmed by intra-operative evaluation, conventional bone graft is not enough and a vascularized bone graft is strongly recommended. Five patients with nonunion of scaphoid fractures associated with avascular necrosis based on results of radiography and further confirmed by magnetic resonance images and intra-operative findings were operatively managed with 1, 2 intercompartmental supraretinacular arterial (1, 2 ICSRA) vascularized bone graft combined with supplemental cancellous bone grafts from the radius. Follow-up periods were at least 18 months. The functional outcomes and radiographs were analyzed. In four of the five patients, the nonunion sites united within 4 months after surgery. The other patient had a superficial pin tract infection and bone healing was complete 6 months after the operation. The functional results were good in all five patients. 1, 2 ICSRA is superficial to the retinaculum and runs directly into the bony tubercle. It is a proper pedicle of vascularized bone graft due to the ease of visibility and dissection. The functional results and union rates were satisfactory in our study."}
{"id": "12111052", "title": "Traumatic injuries: imaging of peripheral musculoskeletal injuries.", "content": "Traumatic injuries: imaging of peripheral musculoskeletal injuries. The current dominant role of conventional radiography must be reassessed at increasingly shorter intervals in view of the continuing emergence of new imaging modalities that are available to diagnose peripheral musculoskeletal injuries. In comparison with conventional radiography, digital radiographic techniques offer advantages for optimization of image quality and dose, such as a wider dynamic range and post-processing of images. Currently, digital luminescence radiography (storage phosphor radiography) is the most commonly used digital method for obtaining radiographs, using the established positioning projections and routines of the film-screen technique. A new process, radiography with flat-panel amorphous silicon detectors, is still under development. Computed tomography is a valuable tool for diagnosing injuries of the peripheral musculoskeletal system, especially when three-dimensional data sets are acquired; these allow reformating images in all planes desired (2D technique) or in a volumetric format (3D technique). Established indications for CT in the peripheral skeleton are hip fractures, wrist injuries and calcaneal fractures; however, CT may be used as a supplement to radiography in every region of the body. Sonography is beginning to play an increasingly important role in trauma. Muscle and tendon injuries are the most common indications, but worthwhile information can be gained of the shoulder, elbow, hip, and knee joints, supplementing conventional or digital radiography. Magnetic resonance imaging effectively visualizes traumatic changes of the skeleton and the peripheral soft tissues. It is the method of choice to detect occult fractures. It can be used to diagnose muscle and tendon injuries. Joint injuries, especially in the knee and the shoulder joint, are common indications for MRI in the posttraumatic setting."}
{"id": "12077673", "title": "Traumatic axial dislocation of the carpus: a case report of transscaphoid pericapitate transhamate axial dislocation.", "content": "Traumatic axial dislocation of the carpus: a case report of transscaphoid pericapitate transhamate axial dislocation. Traumatic axial dislocation of the carpus in a 20-year-old man is described. This injury was accompanied by a crushing injury to the hand. The disruption pattern was different from those of previously reported cases. Despite the restoration of painless wrist motion postoperatively, grip strength remained below normal. Early accurate reduction, fixation, and range of motion (ROM) exercise are the treatment of choice in such complex injuries."}
{"id": "12074611", "title": "Management of acute fractures and nonunions of the proximal pole of the scaphoid.", "content": "Management of acute fractures and nonunions of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. It is my belief that all acute proximal pole fractures should be treated by open reduction and internal fixation, via a dorsal approach. There is no longer any place for conservative treatment of these fractures, because a lengthy period of plaster immobilization is required and there is an unacceptably high risk of nonunion with conservative management. Unfortunately, nonunion of the proximal pole remains a common and disabling problem which demands careful evaluation and treatment. Internal fixation combined with limited cancellous bone grafting produces very satisfactory results in terms of pain relief and function, and clinical results are as good as those reported for more complex procedures involving vascularized grafts and prolonged cast immobilization. While the place for vascularized grafting has yet to be clearly defined, at present it is a technique which should be reserved for cases with long-standing ischaemia or failed previous surgery."}
{"id": "12063324", "title": "Surgical treatment of nonunion and avascular necrosis of the proximal part of the scaphoid in adolescents.", "content": "Surgical treatment of nonunion and avascular necrosis of the proximal part of the scaphoid in adolescents. The purpose of this retrospective study was to examine the clinical and radiographic results of treatment of proximal scaphoid nonunion and avascular necrosis with vascularized bone graft from the distal part of the radius in adolescent patients. Between 1993 and 1996, three adolescents with a proximal scaphoid nonunion and avascular necrosis underwent vascularized bone-grafting and internal fixation. The mean age at the time of the fracture was 14.8 years (14.4, 14.6, and 15.3 years), and the mean time interval between the fracture and the surgery was 19.3 months (six, seventeen, and thirty-five months). We retrospectively reviewed all available clinical and radiographic data from the time of fracture to the time of the last follow-up. All patients were examined clinically and radiographically at the time of the review, at a mean of 5.5 years (five, five, and 6.5 years) after surgery. All fractures healed at a mean of 3.4 months (2.75, 3.0, and 4.5 months) postoperatively. Final follow-up radiographs showed union and revascularization of the proximal part of the scaphoid with no evidence of degeneration of the radiocarpal joint. None of the patients had limiting pain or scapholunate instability demonstrated on physical or radiographic examination. Dorsiflexion and radial deviation of the affected wrist were decreased by a mean of 22 degrees (10 degrees, 22 degrees, and 35 degrees ) and 15 degrees (5 degrees, 20 degrees, and 20 degrees ), respectively, compared with those of the normal wrist. Grafting with vascularized radial bone is an effective treatment, leading to union and good function, for nonunion and avascular necrosis of the proximal part of the scaphoid in adolescents."}
{"id": "12027494", "title": "MRI susceptibility artefacts related to scaphoid screws: the effect of screw type, screw orientation and imaging parameters.", "content": "MRI susceptibility artefacts related to scaphoid screws: the effect of screw type, screw orientation and imaging parameters. Metal implants produce susceptibility artefacts in magnetic resonance imaging. We have explored the effects of scaphoid screw characteristics and orientation on MR susceptibility artefact. Titanium alloy, smallness and longitudinal alignment with the z-axis of the main magnetic field reduce the size of the susceptibility artefact."}
{"id": "12027487", "title": "Beware of the ulno-palmar distal radial fragment.", "content": "Beware of the ulno-palmar distal radial fragment. Five patients sustained isolated fractures of the ulnopalmar rim of the distal radius. In three cases the fragment was small and was classed as an avulsion fracture of the short radiolunate ligament. Palmar wrist subluxation occurred in all cases, four during treatment in a cast or splint. The ulnopalmar rim of the distal radius contributes to the stability of the radiocarpal joint and fractures in this region merit particular attention."}
{"id": "12015717", "title": "The sensitivity of carpal bone indices to rotational malpositioning.", "content": "The sensitivity of carpal bone indices to rotational malpositioning. We investigated the dependence of 20 radiographic carpal measurements (carpal indices) on rotational positioning errors in posteroanterior and lateral radiographs. The measurements were made from \"true perspective\" digitally reconstructed radiographs created from computed tomography data. Most posteroanterior indices were not affected by rotation. Carpal height, carpal height ratio, revised carpal height ratio, capitate-radius distance, and carpal ulnar translocation were particularly robust. Lateral-view indices involving the scaphoid were the most sensitive to simulated malpositioning: radioscaphoid, scapholunate, and scaphocapitate angles were reduced from 58 degrees, 48 degrees, and 56 degrees at true lateral to 30 degrees, 24 degrees, and 34 degrees, respectively, at 20 degrees external rotation. Observers were unable to estimate the degree of malpositioning accurately in either view. Our results support use of the \"scaphopisocapitate\" criterion for assessing correct positioning in lateral plain radiographs."}
{"id": "12015713", "title": "The relationship between proximal pole blood flow and the subjective assessment of increased density of the proximal pole in acute scaphoid fractures.", "content": "The relationship between proximal pole blood flow and the subjective assessment of increased density of the proximal pole in acute scaphoid fractures. The cause and importance of increased density of the proximal pole of the scaphoid seen in radiographs after an acute fracture were investigated. Blood flow to the proximal poles of 32 nonsurgically treated scaphoid fractures were assessed 1 to 2 weeks after injury by measuring their uptake of gadopentetate dimeglumine with dynamic magnetic resonance imaging and calculating its steepest slope and percentage of enhancement values. Initial (week 0) and week 8 scaphoid series radiographs were independently assessed by 2 observers for increased proximal pole density; both agreed that the density had increased during treatment in 9 fractures. All 9 fractures united, suggesting that increased proximal pole density is not a major determinant of fracture outcome. Increased density of the proximal pole was associated with low proximal pole blood flow, but this relationship was not absolute, suggesting that other factors contribute to the appearance of increased density."}
{"id": "11959740", "title": "Occult fractures of the waist of the scaphoid: early diagnosis by high-spatial-resolution sonography.", "content": "Occult fractures of the waist of the scaphoid: early diagnosis by high-spatial-resolution sonography. This study evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of high-spatial-resolution sonography in the diagnosis of occult fractures of the waist of the scaphoid. Sonography of the scaphoid bone with a 12-MHz transducer was performed in 54 patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and normal findings on initial radiographs, including specific scaphoid images. Three levels of clinical suspicion were considered: high (20%), moderate (30%), and low (50%). Attention was paid to the continuity of the scaphoid cortex and to the surrounding soft tissues (i.e., hemarthrosis or hematoma). Data from early sonograms were then compared with the results of radiography repeated 10-14 days after the initial trauma. In cases of persistent suspicion despite normal findings on follow-up radiographs, the presence of fracture was evaluated on CT (four patients), MR imaging (one patient), or bone scanning (one patient). Follow-up examinations proved fracture of the scaphoid waist in five patients. In all patients, diagnosis of fracture was suspected on initial sonograms showing cortical disruption associated with soft-tissue abnormalities. There was one false-positive finding and no false-negative results. Using cortical disruption as a diagnostic criterion, we found the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of high-resolution sonography for the depiction of scaphoid fracture to be 100%, 98%, and 98%, respectively. Using soft-tissue abnormalities alone as a criterion, we found the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of high-resolution sonography to be 100%, 65%, and 68%, respectively. The overall prevalence of occult fracture was 9%, ranging from 3.7% for low suspicion to 27% for high suspicion of fracture. High-resolution sonography is a reliable and accurate method of evaluating occult fractures of the scaphoid waist. Cortical disruption is the diagnostic key. Soft-tissue abnormalities alone lack specificity."}
{"id": "11901399", "title": "Bilateral bipartite lunate: a case report.", "content": "Bilateral bipartite lunate: a case report. A rare case of bilateral bipartite lunate is reported. Radiographs showed that the lunate was divided into palmar and dorsal parts. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were used to differentiate this variant from lunate fracture."}
{"id": "11901382", "title": "Three-dimensional in vivo kinematics of the distal radioulnar joint in malunited distal radius fractures.", "content": "Three-dimensional in vivo kinematics of the distal radioulnar joint in malunited distal radius fractures. How malunion of the distal radius affects the kinematics of the distal radioulnar joint in vivo was evaluated. A novel computed tomography image-based technique was used to quantify radioulnar motion in both wrists of 9 patients who had unilateral malunited distal radius fractures. In the injured wrists dorsal angulation averaged 21 degrees +/- 6 degrees, radial inclination averaged 18 degrees +/- 5 degrees, and radial shortening averaged 21 +/- 3 mm. Clinically, the average range of motion of the injured wrists was 75 degrees +/- 25 degrees pronation and 73 degrees +/- 23 degrees supination. Kinematics of the radius during pronation and supination in the malunited forearms was indistinguishable from that in the uninjured forearms. In both the axis of rotation of the radius passed through the center of the ulnar head, although it shifted slightly ulnar and volar in supination and radial and dorsal during pronation. In contrast to previous in vitro biomechanical findings, there was no dorsovolar radial translation at the extremes of pronation or supination and no translation of the radius along the rotation axis. Soft tissues may play a larger role in limiting function than previously appreciated, and treatment may require correction of altered soft tissue structures as well as any abnormal bone anatomy."}
{"id": "11898079", "title": "[Imaging diagnostics of the wrist: MRI and Arthrography/Arthro-CT].", "content": "[Imaging diagnostics of the wrist: MRI and Arthrography/Arthro-CT]. To evaluate the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with arthrography and arthro-CT (AG/ACT) in patients with wrist pain. MRI and arthrography/arthro-CT (AG/ACT) of the wrist joint were retrospectively evaluated in 346 patients over a three-year period. Imaging findings were correlated to surgical results (n = 78) or clinical course in an at least 6-month follow-up. For tears of the triangular fibrocartilage, arthrography, arthro-CT, and MRI demonstrated a sensitivity and specificity of more than 0.96. Only the positive predictive value was superior for arthrography/arthro-CT (0.99 and 0.98, respectively) compared with MRI (0.94). Arthrography was superior for functional diagnosis of scapho-lunate ligament tears (n = 25). Ulno-lunate and ulno-triquetral ligament defects were demonstrated more exactly by arthrography. Traumatic osseous defects, particularly scaphoid fractures (n = 33) and avascular necrosis (n = 17), were better diagnosed using MRI. For suspected lesions of the triangular fibrocartilage complex, AG/ACT is slightly more reliable than MRI. However, MRI was found to be highly accurate in diagnosing TFC tears, and is superior to AG/ACT in detecting traumatic and vascular lesions of the wrist."}
{"id": "11885387", "title": "Hamatometacarpal fracture-dislocation: distinctive three dimensional computed tomographic appearance.", "content": "Hamatometacarpal fracture-dislocation: distinctive three dimensional computed tomographic appearance. We report here two fully documented cases of hamatometacarpal fracture-dislocation following trauma and treated in our hospital. In our cases, the patients suffered hamate fracture in association with metacarpal dislocation. In the first case, a dorsal oblique fracture of the hamate was associated with a dorsal dislocation of the base of the fourth metacarpal. In the second case, a dorsal oblique fracture of the hamate was not associated with a dorsal dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal. This diagnosis should be suspected on initial review of plain radiographs, which must include an oblique view because of diagnostic difficulty for this injury. We recommend three dimensional computed tomography (3D-CT) in any patient presenting with pain after blunt trauma to the hand to prevent in diagnosis. Open reduction and internal fixation of the fracture is indicated and relevant for displaced fracture."}
{"id": "11810621", "title": "Osteochondral fracture of the triquetrum: a case report.", "content": "Osteochondral fracture of the triquetrum: a case report. A case of osteochondral fracture of the triquetrum associated with pisiform subluxation in a 21-year-old woman is described. The fracture was diagnosed by tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. We consider that the fracture resulted from shear force produced by the pisiform subluxation. Excision of the pisiform provided complete relief of pain and a good functional result."}
{"id": "11810614", "title": "Radiologic evaluation of the ulnar styloid.", "content": "Radiologic evaluation of the ulnar styloid. The ulnar styloid (US) architecture was examined radiologically and directly by dissection in 13 cadaver wrists to examine a potential relationship between US shape and US abutment syndrome and to determine an optimal radiographic view that could be used to detect US fractures. A higher incidence of US abutment syndrome in the radially deviated US type was observed by dissection. Radiographs taken at varying shoulder abduction angles suggested that the base of the US and ulnar head are not round. To best evaluate the fovea and the US for possible US fractures, radiographs should be taken with the glenohumeral joint abducted 45 degrees, the elbow flexed 90 degrees, the forearm in neutral rotation, and the x-ray beam directed through the wrist perpendicular to the floor."}
{"id": "11795748", "title": "The vascular patterns of the carpus with special reference to osteonecrosis of the scaphoid.", "content": "The vascular patterns of the carpus with special reference to osteonecrosis of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "12132820", "title": "Surgical treatment results in scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Surgical treatment results in scaphoid nonunion. Fracture of the scaphoid is the most common fracture in the wrist. We retrospectively reviewed 42 cases of established nonunion of the scaphoid that had been treated by four methods: with two Kirschner wires (K wires) and pronator quadratus pedicled bone graft in 5 patients; AO cannulated screw and graft in 8 patients; Herbert screw and graft in 19 patients; and two K wires and graft in 10 patients. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 5 years (between January 1995 and January 2000). Radiographs and computed tomography (CT) scans were analyzed for confirmation of osseous union. The average period of clinical and radiologic union was 13.2 weeks (range, 10 to 33 weeks). There was a significant improvement in the grasping power, radiologic healing, clinical satisfaction, and pain relief in the patients who had operation."}
{"id": "11974963", "title": "[Occult fractures of the carpal navicular. Detection by quantitative radioscintigraphy. Social and medico-legal repercussions].", "content": "[Occult fractures of the carpal navicular. Detection by quantitative radioscintigraphy. Social and medico-legal repercussions]. Fractures of the scaphoid of the wrist are not easily diagnosed and when they are eventually recognized due to late complications, the prognosis is much poorer than it would have been at injury. Medical negligence and poorly-performed or interpreted x-rays are frequently cited as reasons for non-diagnosis. Often these fractures are trabecular, so-called occult, and they cannot be seen on a conventional exam, even if well-performed. Tomography and tomodensitometry have yielded poor results. Quantitative radioscintigraphy (QRS), the exam we are proposing, is a modification of scintigraphy, which is a very sensitive exam (100%) but has little specificity. The first step in QRS is to quantify the fixation of the tracer on the injured side and compare it to that of the uninjured side. If the injured side fixation is double that of the uninjured side, a fracture (often scaphoid) is present. MRI is our reference. In the second step in QRS, a computer-assisted fusion is made of the scintigraphic image and the x-ray (quantitative scintigraphy has the same diagnostic value as MRI). The center of the fracture is localized, thus yielding a specificity of nearly 100% for this exam. Out of a prospective series of 154 patients who had a conventional examination: 41% were diagnosed to have a scaphoid fracture using QSR, therefore a number higher than supposed. Rare carpal fractures were also detected. The cost of this exam is low. The exam climinates non-diagnosed fractures which can lead to non-union and arthrosis. Due to the frequency of carpal trauma, this exam should have a significant effect on the individual, on social security costs and litigations."}
{"id": "11903171", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist ligaments.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist ligaments. The advent of small arthroscopes has enabled the hand surgeon to visualize the ligaments of the wrist directly with resultant increased accuracy in diagnosing and treating pathology. Orthopaedists are now demanding a preoperative assessment and this, in turn, has necessitated that radiologists have a comprehensive understanding of wrist anatomy. High resolution MR imaging can identify the wrist ligaments reliably and provide information concerning their integrity. Interpretation is not straightforward; there is considerable anatomic variation, and there are perforations, defects and degenerative tears that can be troublesome in diagnosing injury. However, with experience and attention to anatomic detail, the radiologist can provide useful information regarding structural abnormalities. When injured, the ligaments of the wrist behave as other joint ligaments do. Findings following injury include discontinuity of normal striated bands, incomplete disruption, irregularities and alteration in normal signal. Fluid pooling around a ligament and concomitant bone injury are other clues to injury. The identification of such structural abnormalities may help to explain altered biomechanics and improve the management of patients following wrist injury."}
{"id": "11884109", "title": "A comparison of the findings of wrist arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging in the investigation of wrist pain.", "content": "A comparison of the findings of wrist arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging in the investigation of wrist pain. Between 1996 and 1999, 54 patients with wrist pain had magnetic resonance imaging performed using a 1.5 Tesla scanner without a wrist coil. Wrist arthroscopy was performed using a standard technique. The findings were then compared. Magnetic resonance imaging had a low sensitivity for the detection of triangular fibrocartilage complex injuries (0.44) and scapholunate ligament injuries (0.11) when wrist arthroscopy was used as the standard of reference. We conclude that when a magnetoresonance technique that does not employ a dedicated wrist coil is used, a negative magnetic resonance imaging scan does not exclude these two significant injuries."}
{"id": "11855765", "title": "Scaphoid injuries in children.", "content": "Scaphoid injuries in children. In order to establish an acceptable working protocol for the care of children with scaphoid injuries, an independent study was undertaken by the author. This paper describes the various aspects of this study: understanding what the scaphoid is and its function, the correct examination of the hand and wrist and the rationale behind it, the rationale behind the current treatment of suspected scaphoid injuries, and the development of the carpal bones and skeletal age. Opinions differ as to what age the scaphoid develops and therefore when it may be fractured, and so a review of research and literature on scaphoid injuries is also outlined."}
{"id": "11824286", "title": "[Acute perilunar dislocations: algorithm for treatment].", "content": "[Acute perilunar dislocations: algorithm for treatment]. In most cases, perilunar dislocations of the wrist are caused by high speed accidents. Usually these injuries occur by a fall on the dorsiflexed superextension of the hand. The instability caused by injuries of various erticular structures (ligament, bone) show various developmental stages. Clinical symptoms are reduced and painful movement, instability of the carpus, snapping and swelling. The diagnosis is established by X-ray, cinematography, arthrography MRT or CT. Perilunar instability with or without associated fractures and particularly de Quervain must be reduced and treated operatively including suture of the ligament and stabilization of the fracture."}
{"id": "11775481", "title": "Methods of imaging the scaphoid.", "content": "Methods of imaging the scaphoid. Rapid diagnosis of a scaphoid fracture is important so that proper treatment may be initiated. The high frequencies of nonunion of proximal pole, AVN, and scaphoid fractures warrant the use of special imaging to identify an occult fracture that may cause a long-term disability if not diagnosed. The modalities discussed allow the reader to treat patients in an expeditious and accurate manner."}
{"id": "11775472", "title": "Scaphoid nonunions. Pitfalls and pearls.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunions. Pitfalls and pearls. Our ability to treat scaphoid nonunions has improved dramatically. The degree of collapse and bone loss can be accurately assessed in waist fractures using sagittal images on CT scans. These nonunions require reduction and bone grafting to re-establish the normal geometry of the scaphoid. Magnetic resonance imaging helps evaluate whether or not avascular necrosis is present in the proximal pole. Because of the poor prognosis of conventional bone grafts, a vascularized bone graft is recommended as the primary treatment when AVN is present. The volar collapse of the humpback deformity is best corrected with a volar approach and the proximal pole nonunion is best approached using a dorsal approach. Nearly all proximal pole nonunions require a vascularized bone graft and all acute proximal pole fractures require open reduction and internal fixation. Using specially designed cannulated screws, the nonunions can be stabilized accurately to decrease the time to resolution of the nonunion and minimize the amount of time in a cast. Stable fixation requires that the screw fixation target the central portion of the scaphoid regardless of the type of screw design used. Using these techniques, the hand surgeon should be able to provide a reasonable prognosis for patients presenting with a scaphoid nonunion, and the treatment should result in functional range of motion, grip strength, and relief of pain."}
{"id": "11775468", "title": "Percutaneous fixation of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Percutaneous fixation of scaphoid fractures. The scaphoid proximal pole and waist fractures presented here were treated by a novel dorsal percutaneous technique with arthroscopic assistance. All fractures healed, with good final functional results and no complications. The advantages of the dorsal percutaneous approach to scaphoid fixation are: (1) the proximal-to-distal placement of the guide pin and screw allow for more precise placement along the central axis of the scaphoid, which decreases healing time and reduces risk of screw thread exposure. (2) The dorsal approach avoids injuring the vulnerable volar ligament anatomy. And (3) the insertion of the screw from the proximal to distal direction allows the more rigid fixation of proximal scaphoid fractures. Arthroscopy allows confirmation of fracture reduction and screw implantation as well as evaluation of concurrent ligament injuries not detected with standard imaging. Percutaneous K-wires act as joysticks to reduce and compress fracture fragments prior to fixation. The presented technique allows for early, rigid internal fixation with minimal associated morbidity. Patients successfully treated with this technique include those with stable and unstable acute fractures of the scaphoid at all locations, including the proximal pole. Nondisplaced fractures that present with delayed or fibrous union without evidence of avascular necrosis, cyst formation, or bony sclerosis may also be treated with this technique. This technique allows for faster rehabilitation and an earlier return to work or avocation without restriction once CT scan confirms a solid union. Some articles document extraordinary rapid healing by standard radiographs; however, we caution that scaphoid bone healing cannot accurately be determined without CT scan. Percutaneous, arthroscopically assisted internal fixation by a dorsal approach may be considered in all acute scaphoid fractures selected for surgical fixation. The dorsal guidewire permits dorsal and volar implantation of a cannulated screw along the central axis of the scaphoid. This technique permits the reduction of displaced fractures and the stable repair of fractures of the proximal pole. In addition, selected scaphoid fibrous union or delayed union may also be repaired, with realistic expectations of healing. The proven benefits of the percutaneous technique include decreased soft tissue trauma; arthroscopic visualization of the fracture, ensuring anatomic reduction; and stable fixation, allowing early physical rehabilitation. The theoretical benefits of the technique include decreased risk of interruption of the tenuous scaphoid blood supply. Percutaneous internal fixation of scaphoid fractures provides faster rehabilitation, earlier return to work, and quicker bony union in most patients."}
{"id": "11775467", "title": "Closed cast treatment of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Closed cast treatment of scaphoid fractures. Cast immobilization of the wrist remains the treatment of choice for stable fractures of the waist and distal pole of the scaphoid. Criteria for diagnosis of stability should be stringent; plain radiographs may be misleading. CT may provide more accurate information on displacement. Immobilization of the thumb confers no advantage and restricts function unnecessarily. Evidence to support immobilization of the elbow is weak, but it may be useful for selected fractures. A cast does not protect the carpus from the effects of axial loading, which can produce large angulatory forces at the fracture. A gap or fracture offset of 1 mm or more are indicators of instability with potential for nonunion or malunion; internal fixation should be considered for these fractures. Internal fixation may also be considered routinely for proximal pole fractures, regardless of the degree of displacement, in view of their long healing time and high risk of nonunion after cast treatment."}
{"id": "11775466", "title": "Effects of scaphoid fractures on the biomechanics of the wrist.", "content": "Effects of scaphoid fractures on the biomechanics of the wrist. Scaphoid fractures are the most commonly fractured carpal bone. They most often occur from a fall on dorsiflexed, radially deviated wrist. The severity of the fall and position of the wrist influence the fracture pattern and the extent of ligamentous damage. Recent studies have correlated fracture pattern stability and any associated ligamentous disruption with the degree of alternation of wrist biomechanics. It is well documented that instability and altered kinematics can lead to nonunion and abnormal joint loads, which then can accelerate the onset of arthritis. Understanding these biomechanical consequences is critical when managing scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "11775464", "title": "Incidence, mechanism, and natural history of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Incidence, mechanism, and natural history of scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fractures are fairly common and remain a difficult problem with respect to diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. The initial goal is accurate diagnosis of the fracture using clinical evaluation and available imaging modalities. Union is the subsequent objective, with a trend toward restoration of normal scaphoid anatomy, because nonunion or malunion may lead to unacceptable results and patient dissatisfaction. Despite biomechanical research of simulated fractures and clinical studies on natural history, the exact outcome after scaphoid union, nonunion, and malunion remains variable."}
{"id": "11762244", "title": "[Trauma of the bones of the hand and wrist].", "content": "[Trauma of the bones of the hand and wrist]. Fractures of the distal radius are common counting for 17 percent of all fractures. With conventional radiography they can be classified readily. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a suitable technique for the detection of occult forms of fractures and of associated soft tissue injuries. In the wrist, fractures are 10 times less common than in the distal radius, with the scaphoid bone to be involved most commonly. Indications for computed tomography (CT) are complex fractures, occult fractures, or dislocations. MRI should be performed to evaluate the soft tissues, to detect occult fractures, or to analyse osteochondral lesions. Indications for arthrography are injuries of the ligaments or of the joint capsule. Fractures and dislocations of the metacarpal, and the phalangeal bones are the most common fractures of the skeletal system. Conventional radiography is the primary imaging technique, followed by sonography and MRI to detect injuries of the ligaments and tendons."}
{"id": "11717059", "title": "Cost-effectiveness of immediate MR imaging versus traditional follow-up for revealing radiographically occult scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Cost-effectiveness of immediate MR imaging versus traditional follow-up for revealing radiographically occult scaphoid fractures. For suspected scaphoid fractures with no radiographic evidence of fracture, treating symptoms with immobilization and radiographic follow-up has long been the standard of care. Modified MR imaging of the wrist is offered at our institution in screening for radiographically occult scaphoid fractures at the time of initial presentation to the emergency department. We show the advantages and comparative costs of this modified protocol versus a traditional protocol. Our modified protocol consists of coronal thin-section T1-weighted and fast spin-echo T2-weighted MR images with fat saturation. A review of the literature was performed to assess the accuracy of clinical examination, radiography, and other modalities in the evaluation of scaphoid fractures of the wrist. Charges for this procedure are compared with charges for traditional follow-up. Three of four patients with positive results at clinical examination and negative findings on initial radiographs will be needlessly immobilized and monitored. The charges to the patient at our institution for screening MR imaging of the wrist are $770. The total charges to the patient with the traditional protocol, which would not be necessary with screening MR imaging, are $677 or more if a diagnosis is not made at this time. Bone scanning or routine MR imaging is often eventually used. Cost analysis at our institution suggests the two protocols are nearly equivalent from a financial standpoint. The loss of productivity for patients who are unnecessarily in casts or splints may be substantial. Screening MR imaging of the wrist in this setting is becoming accepted at our institution in a manner similar to screening MR imaging of the hip."}
{"id": "11697692", "title": "Focused rigidity casting: a prospective randomised study.", "content": "Focused rigidity casting: a prospective randomised study. Focused rigidity casting was compared with standard casting in a randomised prospective study. Two hundred consecutive patients attending a fracture clinic were assigned to have either a standard cast consisting of synthetic or plaster of paris, or a focused rigidity cast of synthetic material. Patients were assessed using a specially developed scoring system termed the Bradford Plaster Index. In patients with fractures of the base of fifth metatarsal, focused rigidity casting proved superior to traditional techniques for ability score (p=0.0001), satisfaction score (p=0.0023), overall impairment of function (p=0.019), limitation of movement following cast removal (p=0.024) and in limitation of muscle strength following cast removal (p=0.001). In fractures of the distal radius, focused rigidity casting was superior for ability score (p=0.0002) and satisfaction score (p=0.00009). Patients with scaphoid fractures were better for satisfaction score (p=0.0483). Compared with the standard technique, focused rigidity casting has been shown to be superior to traditional methods with regard to satisfaction and functional scores without any detriment to clinical results."}
{"id": "11692122", "title": "Sports injury update: imaging features.", "content": "Sports injury update: imaging features."}
{"id": "11595966", "title": "High-resolution outpatient imaging of the wrist.", "content": "High-resolution outpatient imaging of the wrist. The authors describe their experience with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the evaluation of pathologic conditions of the wrist in an outpatient setting. In that setting, because time and quality are both important factors, they have concentrated on developing protocols that will allow effective, time-efficient, high-resolution MRI of the wrist. With these wrist imaging protocols, they have evaluated the majority of commonly encountered pathologic conditions of the wrist. They have found that high-resolution images, which can be acquired in a very timely fashion when fast spin echo sequences are used in imaging protocols, will demonstrate the most common pathologic conditions, including triangular fibrocartilage and ligament tears in the wrist. They present the practical issues of patient position and imaging sequences as well as the imaging findings in those pathologic conditions."}
{"id": "11572544", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress fracture in a young athlete: case report with clinical, radiologic, and pathophysiologic correlations.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress fracture in a young athlete: case report with clinical, radiologic, and pathophysiologic correlations. Tarsal navicular fractures are uncommon but important causes of foot pain. Being alert to this condition can help prevent a delay in the diagnosis. A literature search of MEDLINE was undertaken, and a case report of an adolescent with tarsal navicular stress fracture is described. Tarsal navicular fractures are often misdiagnosed for months. Because plain radiographs are unreliable, the diagnosis of tarsal navicular fractures requires the use of bone scan, fine-cut computed tomographic scans, or magnetic resonance imaging. Treatment requires strict non-weight-bearing activities to avoid complications. When the alert primary care physician can diagnose this condition, treatment of tarsal navicular fractures can be effective and rewarding."}
{"id": "11572125", "title": "[3-D imaging with a mobile surgical image enhancement equipment (ISO-C-3D). Initial examples of fracture diagnosis of peripheral joints in comparison with spiral CT and conventional radiography].", "content": "[3-D imaging with a mobile surgical image enhancement equipment (ISO-C-3D). Initial examples of fracture diagnosis of peripheral joints in comparison with spiral CT and conventional radiography]. To analyze a prototype mobile C-arm image amplifier (Iso-C3D) in the evaluation of different joint fractures of the upper and lower limbs using multiplanar reconstruction (MPR). Different cadaver joint specimens (n = 14) were examined with a prototype (Iso-C3D, Siemens AG, Erlangen, Germany), plain radiographs (CR), and spiral computed tomography (CT). The motorized C-arm provides fluoroscopic images during a 190 degrees orbital rotation computing a 119-mm data cube. These three-dimensional data sets yielded MPR images, which were evaluated by two readers for the detection and extent of fracture lines. Initial data show that fractures were easily depicted and correctly classified on MPR images with the Iso-C3D and that there was no difference between the Iso-C and CT in the detection of fractures. The preliminary results suggest a remarkably good detection of joint fractures with the Iso-C3D. Studies in an adequate number of patients are required to elucidate whether these promising results can also be obtained in a clinical setting."}
{"id": "11572122", "title": "[Management of proximal scaphoid bone pseudarthroses and fractures with the mini-Herbert screw via a dorsal approach].", "content": "[Management of proximal scaphoid bone pseudarthroses and fractures with the mini-Herbert screw via a dorsal approach]. 32 patients, aged 16 to 49 years, were treated by osteosynthesis using the Herbert mini screw. The indications were five fractures (type B3, Herbert classification), two delayed unions (type C) and 25 nonunions (type D1 to D3, Filan and Herbert classification). Six patients received no bone grafts, 19 received cancellous bone graft from the radius. An interpositional iliac crest bone graft was used in four, and a vascularized bone graft from the distal radius in three cases respectively. The average postoperative immobilisation in a forearm splint was nine weeks. 26 patients could be recruited for clinical follow-up at an average of 14.5 months. The radiological results were assessed in 30 cases (94%). Bony consolidation was achieved in 26 cases (100% of the fractures, 84% of the nonunions). In three cases a loosening of the screw, and in three further cases a dislocation into the radiocarpal joint were observed. A humpback deformity was present in four cases. Three patients showed a persisting nonunion, one patient a fibrous union. Early degenerative changes of the radiocarpal joint were observed in six cases. The clinical follow up examination showed an average grip strength of 91% (JAMAR II), 94% for the three finger, and 95% for the pinch grip compared to the contralateral side. The mean postoperative pain score on the visual analog scale was one for resting conditions, eleven for motion and 33 under stress. The range of motion was 79% of the opposite side for extension/flexion and 83% for radial/ulnar deviation. The average DASH-score reached 15 points. The Herbert mini screw has proven to be a reliable implant for reconstruction of proximal pole fractures and nonunions of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "11561242", "title": "Anatomic placement of the Herbert-Whipple screw in scaphoid fractures: a cadaver study.", "content": "Anatomic placement of the Herbert-Whipple screw in scaphoid fractures: a cadaver study. An anthropometric cadaver study was performed to determine the optimal placement of a Herbert-Whipple screw in the scaphoid. Twenty pairs of cadaver wrists were examined and anthropometric analysis of the scaphoids using plain radiography, computed tomography, and en bloc resection was performed. Scaphoid vascularity was evaluated using India ink injection. Radiographic and actual measurements of height and width confirmed symmetry in paired scaphoids. Anatomic evaluation defined a safe zone for screw placement. K-wire placement defined the extent of this zone. The entry point of this zone was found by moving dorsally and distally 15% of the lateral radiographic length of the contralateral scaphoid from the volar aspect of the scaphoid tuberosity. Moving 10% of this same length from the membranous central portion of the scapholunate ligament defined the target site. Computed tomography confirmed proper position of the screw to maximize bony purchase and avoid articular penetration while maintaining dorsal vascular integrity."}
{"id": "11521919", "title": "Scaphoid blood flow and acute fracture healing. A dynamic MRI study with enhancement with gadolinium.", "content": "Scaphoid blood flow and acute fracture healing. A dynamic MRI study with enhancement with gadolinium. We have investigated whether assessment of blood flow to the proximal scaphoid can be used to predict nonunion in acute fractures of the scaphoid. We studied 32 fractures of the scaphoid one to two weeks after injury, by dynamic fat-suppressed T1-weighted gradient-echo MRI after the intravenous administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine (0.1 mmol/kg body-weight). Steepest slope values (SSV) and percentage enhancement values (%E) were calculated for the distal and proximal fragments and poles. All the fractures were treated by immobilisation in a cast, and union was assessed by CT at 12 weeks. Nonunion occurred in four fractures (12%), and there was no statistically significant difference between the proximal fragment SSV and %E values for the fractures which united and those with nonunion. The difference between the proximal pole SSV and %E values for the union and nonunion groups reached statistical significance (p < 0.05), but with higher enhancement parameters for the nonunion group. Our results suggest that poor proximal vascularity is not an important determinant of union in fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "11518983", "title": "[MRI or arthroscopy in the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament tears in fractures of the distal radius?].", "content": "[MRI or arthroscopy in the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament tears in fractures of the distal radius?]. In a prospective study, 45 patients with fractures of the distal radius and radiologically suspected tears of the scapholunate interosseous ligament were examined. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed prior to wrist arthroscopy. The latter examination gave the definite diagnosis. MRI was performed in conventional technique (without contrast medium) in 25 cases and after additional intravenous injection of contrast medium in the remaining 20 patients. The images were obtained with a 1.0-T clinical imager using a T(2)-weighted turbo spin echo sequence (slice 3 mm, transversal) and a FLASH 2D sequence (slice 2 mm, oblique/coronal). Three independent observers assessed the MRI scans before arthroscopy was performed. The correct diagnosis was made by MRI in 76 %. Overall sensitivity and specificity came to 71 % and 86 %, respectively. The use of intravenously applied contrast medium did not improve MRI accuracy. In conclusion, MRI is not recommended for the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament tears. Presumably, the results of MRI could be improved by a more sophisticated technique."}
{"id": "11518981", "title": "[Carpal injuries associated with distal radius fractures. Diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[Carpal injuries associated with distal radius fractures. Diagnosis and therapy]. The frequency of carpal injuries associated with distal radius fractures is often underestimated. Diagnosis of such lesions can be difficult. Important diagnostic steps include conventional X-rays, cinematography of the wrist, MRI, and arthroscopy. Different procedures such as wrist arthrography and CT are of secondary value. An early diagnosis of ligament injuries and instabilities can be obtained through cinematographic examination, whereas injuries to the TFCC are mainly diagnosed by MRI. Arthroscopy provides exact diagnosis as well as therapy, including arthroscopically controlled reposition of centrally depressed fragments of the articular surface of the radius and even treatment of TFCC lesions."}
{"id": "11514777", "title": "Intraarticular distal radius fracture.", "content": "Intraarticular distal radius fracture."}
{"id": "11482474", "title": "Non-union of the capitate with associated triangular fibrocartilage tear.", "content": "Non-union of the capitate with associated triangular fibrocartilage tear. We report a case of a 19-year-old boy who presented with a painful wrist 3 months after a fall. Plain radiographs demonstrated a non-union of a capitate fracture which was unrecognised at the time of injury. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the diagnosis and also demonstrated a tear of the triangular fibrocartilage complex. This combination of injuries has not been previously described."}
{"id": "11469846", "title": "Temporary ischaemia of the scaphoid in a child.", "content": "Temporary ischaemia of the scaphoid in a child. We describe a case of a 12-year-old boy who developed acute ischaemia of the entire scaphoid following simple trauma to the wrist. No fracture was evident; however, MRI and bone scintigraphy at the time of the injury revealed complete ischaemia of the scaphoid. A repeat MRI at 6 months showed evidence of incomplete revascularisation of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "11469834", "title": "MRI assessment of the proximal pole of the scaphoid after internal fixation with a titanium alloy Herbert screw.", "content": "MRI assessment of the proximal pole of the scaphoid after internal fixation with a titanium alloy Herbert screw. We report a series of scaphoid fractures fixed with titanium alloy Herbert screws in which postoperative Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) was used to assess the marrow signal in the proximal pole of the scaphoid and thus detect the presence of avascular necrosis. The artefact produced by the titanium alloy Herbert screw did not preclude this assessment."}
{"id": "11468480", "title": "Pathologic fracture of the scaphoid caused by intraosseous ganglion followed by regression after the healing of the fracture.", "content": "Pathologic fracture of the scaphoid caused by intraosseous ganglion followed by regression after the healing of the fracture."}
{"id": "11433158", "title": "Normal ranges of scapholunate distance in children 6 to 14 years old.", "content": "Normal ranges of scapholunate distance in children 6 to 14 years old. The purpose of this study was to determine the normal ranges of scapholunate distance (SLD) applicable to children. Bone age radiographs of 85 children (36 boys, 49 girls) 6 to 14 years of age were used to establish the normal ranges. Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed significant age and gender differences. Therefore, linear regression was used to determine normal SLD ranges separately for girls and boys based on chronologic age and bone age. SLD normal ranges were similar for chronologic age and bone age. Interobserver and intraobserver agreement was excellent. There was no significant age by gender interaction found, indicating that although boys had significantly longer distances than girls, both showed a similar rate of decreasing SLD distance with age. These results provide age-and gender-based normal ranges of SLD in young children. These results may be useful in assessing traumatic soft tissue injuries about the pediatric wrist. Of note, only three girls and two boys (all 12 years or older) met the adult criterion of normal SLD of < or = 2 mm."}
{"id": "11426003", "title": "Scaphoid fractures: evaluation with high-spatial-resolution US initial results.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures: evaluation with high-spatial-resolution US initial results. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of high-spatial-resolution ultrasonography (US) in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. In 72 hours after acute wrist trauma, 15 consecutive patients were examined for possible scaphoid fractures clinically and with conventional radiographs, including scaphoid views. Thereafter, high-spatial-resolution US was performed by two experienced radiologists blinded to the results of the previously performed investigations. High-spatial-resolution US of the scaphoid bones was performed from the palmar, lateral, and dorsal directions in the longitudinal and transverse planes. US findings indicative of a scaphoid fracture were cortical discontinuity and/or periosteal elevation. Finally, magnetic resonance (MR) images (short inversion time inversion-recovery, T1- and T2*-weighted) (ie, the standard) of the affected wrist were obtained and evaluated for a possible scaphoid fracture by two radiologists in consensus. Nine of 15 patients had scaphoid fractures. Seven (78%) of nine patients had positive findings at high-spatial-resolution US and five (56%) had such findings at conventional radiography (ie, four occult scaphoid fractures), with an accuracy of 87% and 73%, respectively. Two (50%) of four radiographically occult scaphoid fractures were depicted with high-spatial-resolution US. Sonographic findings of scaphoid fractures were either cortical discontinuity (n = 4), periosteal elevation (n = 2), or a combination of these two findings (n = 1). High-spatial-resolution US is a reliable diagnostic tool for the evaluation of occult scaphoid fractures and should be considered an adequate alternative diagnostic tool prior to computed tomography or MR imaging."}
{"id": "11402464", "title": "[Wrist injuries].", "content": "[Wrist injuries]."}
{"id": "11402461", "title": "[Imaging studies of the hand and wrist].", "content": "[Imaging studies of the hand and wrist]."}
{"id": "11374049", "title": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures and other wrist injuries. Are repeated clinical examinations and plain radiographs still state of the art?", "content": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures and other wrist injuries. Are repeated clinical examinations and plain radiographs still state of the art? To examine the efficacy of repeated clinical examinations and follow-up radiographs, 121 patients were prospectively and consecutively randomised and clinically followed until a final diagnosis was achieved. All of these patients additionally underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans within an average of 3 days after trauma to control the results of this study. MRI detected 112 injuries in 82 patients (67%). Twenty-eight (25%) of these injuries were scaphoid fractures. There were 15 fractures of other carpal bones, 14 avulsion fractures of extrinsic ligaments (AFL), 26 other bone injuries (fractures of distal radius, fractures of radial styloid, ulnar head fracture metacarpal fracture, bone bruises), and 29 soft tissue injuries (triangular fibro-cartilaginous complex injuries, complete or partial ruptures of the scapholunate ligament, ruptures of the radial collateral ligament, hemarthrosis). By means of repeated clinical examinations and plain scaphoid views, experienced observers were able to detect all the occult scaphoid fractures within 38 days, as well as most of the other fractures about the wrist except one fracture of the triquetrum. Soft tissue injuries, however, were diagnosed only in two cases of complete scapholunate ligament tears. It was further obvious that 70% of all scaphoid fractures and 60% of the AFLs were detected in a review of the initial X-rays by experienced surgeons. Only 30% of all scaphoid fractures detected were really occult and all of these were diagnosed correctly. This prospective study demonstrates that clinical and radiological standard procedures are reliable in the diagnosis of occult fractures of the carpus and wrist when performed by experienced observers. MRI scans are indicated for early diagnosis of occult fractures and soft tissue injuries about the wrist."}
{"id": "11372305", "title": "Traumatic and reconstructive problems of the scaphoid.", "content": "Traumatic and reconstructive problems of the scaphoid. The management of acute scaphoid fractures should be oriented on the concept of fracture stability, ease of reduction, associated ligamentous injury, and risk of impaired blood supply, rather than the direction of the fracture line or location of the fracture within the scaphoid. The lack of predictability of successful fracture union and prognostic discrepancies of historic and contemporary classifications may be related to subtle differences of the internal vascular architecture of each scaphoid. Because the possibility of impaired vascularity is greater with fractures located in the proximal third, stable internal fixation is indicated to provide mechanical stability and fracture surface contact to enhance revascularization. Improved healing rates in a shorter time and earlier rehabilitation with percutaneous techniques of internal fixation have produced a clear shift from classic conservative treatment to internal skeletal fixation. Although the rates of union of well-vascularized nonunions have not been dramatically improved with the use of internal fixation as compared with inlay bone grafting, the restoration of scaphoid anatomy and prevention of malunion and associated carpal collapse with interpositional bone grafting techniques will reduce the risk of osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "11347841", "title": "Kinematics of the wrist with a new dynamic external fixation device.", "content": "Kinematics of the wrist with a new dynamic external fixation device. The kinematic properties of a new dynamic external fixator device for treatment of distal radial fractures are described. Using a combination of data obtained from computed tomography scans and high-speed video images, a three-dimensional reconstruction of carpal motion was made. To describe carpal motion, the radiolunate, capitolunate, and scapholunate angles were measured during flexion and extension and during radioulnar deviation. During these types of motion, the device changed normal carpal kinematics to a limited extent although the differences in kinematic pattern with and without the device were small. The results for flexion and extension correspond with data from previously published studies with other dynamic external fixators. However, because the new device (Flexafix) allows flexion and extension and radioulnar deviation, in contrast to other dynamic external fixation devices, with its use normal carpal kinematics can be approached more closely."}
{"id": "11310205", "title": "Wrist ligament injuries: value of post-arthrography computed tomography.", "content": "Wrist ligament injuries: value of post-arthrography computed tomography. To evaluate the use of post-arthrography high-resolution computed tomography in wrist ligament injuries. Thirty-six consecutive patients who had a history and clinical findings suggestive of ligamentous injuries of the wrist were prospectively studied. The findings of three-compartment arthrography and post-arthrography computed tomography (arthro-CT) were compared with those of arthroscopy. The evaluation concentrates on the detection and precise localization of ligament lesions in the triangular fibrocartilage (TFC), the scapholunate ligament (SLL) and the lunotriquetral ligament (LTL). For TFC, SLL and LTL lesions, standard arthrography responded with a sensitivity and specificity of 85% and 100%, 85% and 100%, 80% and 100% respectively, while arthro-CT showed a sensitivity and specificity of 85% and 100%, 100% and 100%, 80% and 100% respectively. The precise localization of the lesions was possible only with arthro-CT. The sensitivity and specificity of standard arthrography and arthro-CT are similar, although the latter shows the site of tears or perforation with greater precision, while conventional arthrography demonstrates them indirectly. This precision is essential and may have clinical implications for the success of treatment procedures."}
{"id": "11287864", "title": "[Imaging of the wrist and of the hand: what is the best modality?].", "content": "[Imaging of the wrist and of the hand: what is the best modality?]. The authors describe the indications for radiologic explorations in case of traumatic as well as non-traumatic conditions. In case of trauma of the wrist, the radiologic exploration looks for a fracture, a dislocation or a ligament injury. Initially, postero-ant\u00e9rior and lateral views must be completed with an antero-posterior view, a scaphoid incidence and an oblique view. This initial examination can be completed secondarily by specific views for the carpal bones, dynamic X-Rays, CT scan or arthro CT scan. In non-traumatic cases, radiologic explorations look for osteo-articular or soft tissue abnormalities specific of a inflammatory or degenerative disease. The initial incidence is a postero-anterior view of both hands. It can be completed secondarly by other explorations (other X-Rays, Ultra-sound, CT scan or MRI)."}
{"id": "11286584", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of suspected scaphoid fractures using a low field dedicated extremity MR system.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of suspected scaphoid fractures using a low field dedicated extremity MR system. To determine whether magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using a dedicated extremity system could be utilized for the routine assessment of patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture, and to determine the most cost-effective timing of MRI for these patients. MRI of the wrist using a 0.2T extremity MR system was performed in two groups of patients. Fifty-six patients were examined within 4 days of injury and 53 with persistent symptoms at 10 days to 6 weeks following injury. A scaphoid series of radiographs was negative in both groups. The early MR group had seven scaphoid, six radial and four other fractures. Management was altered in 89%. The late MR group had 14 scaphoid, nine radial and three other fractures. Management was altered in 69%. A cost model showed that overall costs are less with early rather than late scanning. MRI of the wrist when scaphoid fracture is suspected can be undertaken in all patients with negative radiographs and could be performed in most departments with an MRI machine. There are significant patient benefits and overall costs would change little from conventional practice."}
{"id": "11279570", "title": "Evaluation of the sigmoid notch with computed tomography following intra-articular distal radius fracture.", "content": "Evaluation of the sigmoid notch with computed tomography following intra-articular distal radius fracture. A classification system for disruption patterns of the sigmoid notch of the radius associated with distal radius fractures has not been established. Using plain x-rays and corresponding computed tomography (CT) scans we characterized and quantified the types of sigmoid notch involvement in 20 consecutive distal radius fractures with radiocarpal joint extension. Plain radiographs revealed fracture extension into the sigmoid notch in only 7 cases (35%) and the CT scans demonstrated fracture extension into the sigmoid notch in 13 cases (65%). Of the 13 fractures with sigmoid notch involvement, 9 (69%) were displaced and 4 (31%) were nondisplaced. Sigmoid notch articular step-off (n = 7) and gapping (n = 9) were detectable on the CT scans but not on the x-rays. Plain x-rays appear to underestimate sigmoid notch involvement following distal radius fractures. In addition, CT appears to be a superior diagnostic modality for quantifying sigmoid notch fracture step-off and articular gapping."}
{"id": "11279566", "title": "Ilizarov hybrid external fixation for fractures of the distal radius: Part I. Feasibility of transfixion wire placement.", "content": "Ilizarov hybrid external fixation for fractures of the distal radius: Part I. Feasibility of transfixion wire placement. The advantages of Ilizarov external fixation, allowing early motion of adjacent joints during fixation of periarticular fractures, have not yet been applied to distal radius fractures. A magnetic resonance imaging study of 10 normal volunteers evaluated the safety of passing percutaneous transfixion pins across the distal radius in 3 forearm positions. Even in the optimal forearm position, the safe zones between the transfixion pin, vessel, nerve, or tendon was small, suggesting that open placement would be required. A cadaver study in 8 specimens demonstrated that the pins could be placed with an open technique using an aiming device and that the pins could be placed without limiting forearm rotation. The proximity of vital structures to transfixion pins dictates open placement to safely apply Ilizarov fixation to distal radius fractures."}
{"id": "11275875", "title": "A man with wrist pain after a fall.", "content": "A man with wrist pain after a fall."}
{"id": "11265911", "title": "Trauma to wrist.", "content": "Trauma to wrist."}
{"id": "11245543", "title": "Treatment of nonunion of the scaphoid by a limited combined approach.", "content": "Treatment of nonunion of the scaphoid by a limited combined approach. Seven patients with nonunion of the scaphoid were treated by a limited approach combining a palmar wedge graft with insertion of a dorsal (retrograde) Herbert screw through small incisions. All patients had palmar bone deficiency and a 'difficult' proximal fragment. They were followed up for a minimum of 12 months (12 to 38). Radiological union was achieved in all. In five patients correction of instability of the dorsal intercalary segment which was present before operation, was achieved. On a wrist-scoring chart, all patients had an excellent or good rating. The limited combined approach allows correction of the deformity with rigid fixation and has the advantage of preserving most of the palmar ligaments."}
{"id": "11165838", "title": "Fracture of the hook of the hamate, often misdiagnosed as \"wrist sprain\".", "content": "Fracture of the hook of the hamate, often misdiagnosed as \"wrist sprain\". A patient with fracture of the hook of the hamate is described, in whom the diagnosis was delayed for 1 year after the initial trauma. This delay in correct diagnosis is often seen, as routine anteroposterior and lateral roentgenograms of the wrist are unlikely to show the fracture. The trauma is often misinterpreted as a \"wrist sprain.\" Nevertheless, with a careful trauma history and a detailed clinical examination and with minimal additional roentgenographic views, it should be possible to correctly diagnose the fracture. Relief of the disabling pain can then be offered by removal of the un-united fracture fragment."}
{"id": "11162008", "title": "MRI versus arthroscopy in the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament injury.", "content": "MRI versus arthroscopy in the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament injury. In a prospective study 103 patients with clinically or radiologically suspected tears of the scapholunate interosseous ligament were investigated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and wrist arthroscopy. MRI was performed with the conventional technique in 72 cases and after intravenous injection of contrast medium in the remaining 31 patients. The correct diagnosis was made by MRI in 75% of cases and its overall sensitivity and specificity were 63% and 86% respectively. There was no statistical difference in the accuracy of MRI for acute or chronic tears and the use of intravenous contrast medium did not improve its accuracy. In conclusion, MRI is not recommended for the diagnosis of scapholunate ligament injury."}
{"id": "11147694", "title": "Bilateral isolated tarsal navicular fracture dislocation: a case report.", "content": "Bilateral isolated tarsal navicular fracture dislocation: a case report. Fracture-dislocation of the tarsal navicular is rare injury because of strong ligamentous support on both its plantar and dorsal sides. The authors report a case of a twenty-five-year-old man who sustained bilateral isolated tarsal navicular fracture-dislocations, treated by open reduction and internal fixation combined with external fixation. The patient reported no difficulty in activities of daily living, but T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging showed a low-intensity area in right tarsal navicular, raising suspicion of osteonecrosis when he was last seen two year three months after operation."}
{"id": "11147693", "title": "Distal radius epiphysiolysis associated with scaphoid fractures in immature patients: report of two cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Distal radius epiphysiolysis associated with scaphoid fractures in immature patients: report of two cases and review of the literature. Two cases of carpal scaphoid fractures associated with distal radius epiphysiolysis are presented. Only three cases of this unlikely combination were found in the English literature. One of the scaphoid fractures had to be confirmed by bone scan. Conservative treatment after gentle reduction of the radius fracture gave excellent results."}
{"id": "19839159", "title": "Rare combination of seven fractures in the same forearm and wrist.", "content": "Rare combination of seven fractures in the same forearm and wrist. A rare combination of a segmental ulnar fracture with fracture dislocation of the head of the radius and intraarticular fracture of the distal radius concomitant with an ipsilateral scaphoid, lunate and coronoid process fractures is presented. The mechanism of injury could possibly be a tremendous impact on the outstretched hand with a dorsiflexed wrist, fracturing the carpal bones and the distal radius. Transmitted axial forces on the ulna in a pronating forearm resulted in the other fractures. To the best of our knowledge, no such case has been reported. Open reduction with screw fixation of the scaphoid, plating of the proximal ulna and Kirschner wiring of the distal radius and radial head dislocation were done."}
{"id": "11450129", "title": "[Wrist trauma: diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Wrist trauma: diagnostic imaging]. Wrist injury is common throughout life and, although history and physical examination provide important information regarding the type of lesion, a radiological study is essential to determine a specific diagnosis. Conventional radiography plays a central role in the wrist injuries but the diffusion of more sensitive methodics offers new possibilities. Our purpose is to evaluate the role of computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR) and arthrography in wrist trauma. We retrospectively examined the images of 45 patients with wrist injuries: in every patients a radiological examination in 4 standard projections was executed while in 25, 9 and 11 patients CT,MR and arthrography were performed. On the basis of our findings we think that conventional radiography is often sufficient for diagnosis of bone lesions even if CT sometimes is required to detect subtle fractures. MR has an high sensitivity not only for abnormalities of soft tissues, including interosseous ligaments and triangular fibrocartilage, but also bony abnormalities such as occult fractures and early osteonecrosis. Arthrography still remains the best procedure for evaluating lesions of triangular fibrocartilage and intercarpal ligaments especially in a preoperative phase."}
{"id": "11337918", "title": "[Role of wrist instability in the onset of pseudoarthrosis of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Role of wrist instability in the onset of pseudoarthrosis of the scaphoid bone]. The most common fracture involving the wrist is a fracture of the scaphoid bone. Fracture of the scaphoid most frequently occurs in young adult male and usually involves the wrist of the scaphoid. There is a universal agreement that the majority of these fractures will heal if immobilized property and for a long period of time [1, 2]. In the treatment of these fractures much attention has been payed to bone damage and not to associated ligament injury. It is reported that the incidence of nonunion of scaphoid fractures is ten per cent and that the frequency of this complication remains essentially unchanged [3, 4]. Failure to improve the outcome suggests that the mechanisms and causes of this complication are poorly understood. Explanations of nonunion or delayed union of scaphoid bone are: poor initial treatment or even no treatment [3], delayed diagnosis [5], fragments displacement [5-8], improper immobilization [9], site and direction of the fracture [3] and wrist instability [8, 10]. The study was undertaken to analyse the influence of carpal instability on the development of scaphoid nonunion. The study concerned 40 patients with painful nonunions of the scaphoid bone. Duration of nonunion was 1.43 year. There were 37 (92%) male and 3 (8%) female patients. Site and direction of the fracture, initial treatment and carpal collaps were analysed. Data processing was done for all examined patients (Table 1). Dominant hand was involved in 24 (60%) patients and nondominant hand in 16 (40%) subjects. Carpal collaps was present in 68% of patients. There were 14 (35%) untreated patients (Graph 1). Untreated fractures were statistically insignificant regarding the intensity of carpal collaps (p = 0.101; p > 0.05). The physical examination usually revealed focal tenderness, a palpable click with ulnar deviation, abnormal antero-posterior mobility with passive range of motion or a combination of these findings. Standard X-rays evaluated fracture location and carpal instability or collaps. There were 14 (35%) proximal third located fractures and 26 (65%) in the middle third of wrist (Graph 2). There was no statistically significant correlation between location of the fracture and presence of carpal collaps (p = 0.081; p > 0.05). There were 35 per cent overlooked fractures. Delay in diagnosis of a scaphoid fracture has been suggested as a significant factor in the development of nonunion [5, 7]. However, in our series of nonunions, non treatment does not occur frequently enough to be the critical factor. Most series report about 2/3 of nonunions occurring at the wrist [7, 9]. Our series shows a similar distribution, arguing against site as a critical factor. There appears to be a nearly uniform rate of nonunion in most of the reported series [7, 15, 16], regardless of the position of the wrist, whether or not the thumb was immobilized. Evidence of ligamentous injury in our series led us to conclude that scaphoid nonunion is consistently associated with carpal instability pattern. In our series 68% of nonunions associated with carpal collaps were present. We found no statistically significant correlation between carpal collaps and nontreated fractures or location of fracture site. Therefore, we concluded that carpal collaps was consistently present and, thus the critical factor in wrists with ununited scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "11331161", "title": "MRI of the wrist.", "content": "MRI of the wrist. In the past, the diagnostic imaging algorithm for evaluating the painful wrist included initial plain radiographic examination followed by arthrography, tomography, bone scintigraphy, or computed tomography. In recent years, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been proven efficacious for diagnosing a number of maladies of the bones, ligaments, and soft tissues. MRI can be of aid in evaluation of carpal instability, disorders of the triangular fibrocartilage, ulnar impaction syndrome, distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) instability, fracture, avascular necrosis (AVN), tendinopathy, nerve entrapment syndromes, synovial abnormalities, and soft tissue masses."}
{"id": "11305572", "title": "The role of MRI in the assessment of scaphoid fracture healing: a pilot study.", "content": "The role of MRI in the assessment of scaphoid fracture healing: a pilot study. Twenty-two patients with fracture of the scaphoid treated by cast immobilisation underwent clinical examination, radiography and MR scanning 6 weeks after injury. On clinical and plain radiographic criteria alone, 12 patients were considered sufficiently healed to warrant mobilisation. The remaining 10 patients were considered unhealed and were immobilised for a further period. A musculoskeletal radiologist, blinded to the clinical diagnosis, reviewed the MRI scans. Of the 10 patients considered unhealed, 5 had the MR appearances of a united fracture, based on normal marrow signal across the fracture line on T1-weighted images. Of the 12 patients deemed to have united, union could be confirmed by MRI criteria in only 5, but all 12 were healed at 1 year. The results suggest that MRI can provide additional information in this group of patients. It can confirm bony union in a high proportion of patients deemed clinically non-united. Its use in this context will allow a more rapid mobilisation and return to normal function. The significance of persistent MR signal abnormalities in patients who have clinical and radiographic signs of healing merits further study."}
{"id": "11179626", "title": "Estimation of wrist fracture load using phalangeal speed of sound: an in vitro study.", "content": "Estimation of wrist fracture load using phalangeal speed of sound: an in vitro study. This study aimed to evaluate the ability of speed of sound (SOS) measured at the phalanges to estimate simulated wrist fracture load and stress. SOS was measured along the proximal phalanges of the second, third and fourth fingers using an ultrasound (US) system operating in axial transmission mode. The bone mineral density (BMD) of the radius and the phalanges was also measured with quantitative computed tomography (QCT) and dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), and the combined cortical thickness (CCT) of the phalanges was measured from hand radiographs. After the measurements were completed, the radius was excised from the cadaver, embedded in polymethylmethacrylate and tested to failure on a servohydraulic testing machine. The configuration of the radius was chosen to simulate a fall onto the hand. Linear regression analysis showed a highly significant correlation between SOS (r = 0.76-0.94, p < 0.001), CCT (r = 0.86-0.90, p < 0.001) and BMD (r = 0.92-0.96, p < 0.0001) in the three proximal phalanges measured. SOS, BMD and CCT were significant predictors of fracture load (r = 0.60-0.69, p < 0.03) and stress (r = 0.65-0.77, p < 0.02). Cortical area and bone mineral content (BMC) of the radius were consistently higher predictors of fracture load (r = 0.76-0.82, p < 0.01 for area and r = 0.78-0.88, p < 0.01 for BMC) than BMD. The correlation of BMC and area was poorer with fracture stress. In a step-wise regression analysis using both phalangeal BMD and SOS, only SOS remained a significant predictor of fracture stress. In forward stepwise regression analysis, both cortical area and SOS were entered into the regression model to estimate fracture load. Only SOS remained significant in the model for estimating fracture stress. Phalangeal BMD was only entered in the combined model with the cortical area at the 4% site (r = 0.84, p = 0.002). Phalangeal SOS is a useful parameter in the assessment of bone status of the radius."}
{"id": "11171509", "title": "[Bone scintigraphy in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture].", "content": "[Bone scintigraphy in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture]."}
{"id": "11117050", "title": "Hand and wrist injuries in young athletes.", "content": "Hand and wrist injuries in young athletes. Successful treatments of musculoskeletal injuries in the pediatric population demand a thorough understanding of the basic anatomy and its biomechanics, and the physiology of growth and development of the immature skeleton. In addition, good treatment outcomes rely on the treating physician being an effective teacher to the young athlete and the patient's parents, coaches, and trainers. At the same time, the physician must be a good student in learning the nature of the patient's sports and each patient's athletic ability and aspirations. Most pediatric hand and wrist injuries can be treated nonoperatively with proper immobilization techniques and activity modification, but cases requiring surgical intervention must be recognized promptly to avoid long-term complications."}
{"id": "11098739", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures--diagnosis, classification and therapy].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures--diagnosis, classification and therapy]. Herbert's classification of scaphoid fractures provides the underlying rationale for treatment according to the fracture type. A CT bone scan in the long axis of the scaphoid is the best means of differentiating between stable and unstable fractures. This is difficult from conventional X-rays due to the particular three-dimensional anatomy of the scaphoid. To avoid long-term plaster immobilization and to diminish the risk of a nonunion, unstable fractures of type B should be fixed operatively. With headless screws such as the Herbert screw, which are now available in a cannulated shape, the majority of scaphoid fractures of type B1 and B2 can be stabilized using minimally invasive procedures. Severely displaced fractures require the classical open palmar approach. Proximal pole fractures (B3) are best managed from the dorsal approach, using the Mini-Herbert screw. Stable fractures of type A2 can be treated conservatively in a below-elbow cast or, alternatively, stabilized percutaneously, which allows early mobilization."}
{"id": "11089185", "title": "Cystic lesion in carpal bone.", "content": "Cystic lesion in carpal bone. Six cases of symptomatic cystic lesions of carpal bones which underwent operative treatment were reviewed. Definite diagnosis, etiology and treatment were also discussed. The lesions occurred in the scaphoid, lunate, capitate and triquetrum, and were multiple lesions in four of the six cases. Juxta-articular bone cyst was diagnosed in three cases: intraosseous cavity surrounded by fibrous membrane containing gelatinous material, and \"bone cyst-like pathologic change\" in three cases which contained fibrous connective tissue resembled the thick inner wall of juxta-articular bone cyst histologically. They were treated by curettage and cancellous bone grafting; the outcomes were favourable without complication. It is suggested that the minor trauma resulting from the carpal loading serves as a basis for intraosseous lesion, which initiates intramedullary metaplasia followed by fibrous connective tissue proliferation with/without mucin secretion, and forms cystic cavity."}
{"id": "11089184", "title": "Diagnostic imaging for fracture of the hook of the hamate.", "content": "Diagnostic imaging for fracture of the hook of the hamate. We experienced 16 patients with a fracture of the hook of the hamate. The routine posteroanterior view raised the suspicion of fracture in four of 13 patients (31%), the carpal tunnel view showed the actual fractures in six of 14 patients (43%), and the supine oblique radiographic view of the wrist showed fractures in eight of ten patients (80%). Computed tomography corroborated the fracture in all eight patients (100%). Computerized tomography proved most useful for accurate diagnosis of fracture of the hook of the hamate."}
{"id": "11075601", "title": "MRI in the management of scaphoid fractures in skeletally immature patients.", "content": "MRI in the management of scaphoid fractures in skeletally immature patients. The scaphoid is the commonest fractured carpal bone, but excluding a scaphoid fracture with plain radiographs is difficult. Other imaging modalities are being increasingly evaluated in the management of scaphoid injuries. MRI has been shown to be of considerable value in the adult population but there have been limited studies of its use in children. To evaluate the role of MRI in the acute management of suspected scaphoid injuries in children. Fifty-six children (57 injuries) who had a suspected scaphoid injury underwent MRI within 10 days of their initial trauma. The results of MRI were used to dictate management of the injury. In 33 (58%) of the 57 injuries, MRI was normal and the patient was discharged from care. In 16 cases (28%), a fractured scaphoid was diagnosed and appropriate treatment started early. Additionally, other fractures around the wrist joint and ganglion cysts were demonstrated on MRI. MRI of acute scaphoid injuries in children significantly alters management. Those children with normal scans are discharged earlier. Scaphoid fractures are confirmed earlier and other pathological conditions are also detected."}
{"id": "11058006", "title": "Ultrasound for diagnosis of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Ultrasound for diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. We investigated the diagnostic value of two different ultrasound scanning methods for the early diagnosis of acute scaphoid fractures. Fifty-seven patients with ten scaphoid fractures were assessed within a week of injury. The accuracy of the ultrasound assessment was 84% and its specificity was 91%. However, its sensitivity was only 50%. We conclude that ultrasound examination is unreliable for the diagnosis of acute scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "11043139", "title": "[Trans-scaphoid perilunar dislocation of the wrist (de Quervain) as a rare complication of electric injury].", "content": "[Trans-scaphoid perilunar dislocation of the wrist (de Quervain) as a rare complication of electric injury]. We describe the case of a 67-year-old man with an electricity inflicted injury in the left hand and a transscaphoidal perilunear dislocation of the opposite right hand. On admission, the injury was missed on the standard ap-radiogram of the right hand, so the operative reconstruction was delayed. Later on, the lunate showed aseptic necrosis and wrist collapse as consequence."}
{"id": "11040298", "title": "Osseous integration of bovine hydroxyapatite ceramic in metaphyseal bone defects of the distal radius.", "content": "Osseous integration of bovine hydroxyapatite ceramic in metaphyseal bone defects of the distal radius. Hydroxyapatite ceramic made of bovine spongiosa was used as structural support material in a prospective study to correct bone defects experienced after reduction in distal radius fractures. The study took place over a 3-year period (1992-1999) and comprised 14 patients. Osseous integration was analyzed via biopsies and magnetic resonance imaging. Long-term follow-up monitoring involving magnetic resonance imaging in 13 of the 14 patients showed fibrovascular growth within incorporated hydroxyapatite material. Osseous integration was demonstrated in magnetic resonance images by gadolinium uptake and by the presence of osteoid layers and endothelialized vessels. Hydroxyapatite ceramic offers a biologically acceptable alternative to autologous bone when augmenting distal radius fracture fixation."}
{"id": "11036545", "title": "[Late sequelae of fractures of the distal third of the forearm during the growth period].", "content": "[Late sequelae of fractures of the distal third of the forearm during the growth period]. Fractures to the distal third of the forearm are the most common fractures of the upper extremity, with the majority occurring between the age of ten and 14 years. With the exception of the rare epiphyseal fractures, they have a favourable prognosis. The present study investigates the frequency and extent of potential clinical and radiological late sequelae of fractures in the distal third of the forearm during growth. Of the patients treated at the Innsbruck University Department of Traumatology from 1980 to 1992, 220 patients of a growing age with 232 closed fractures in the distal third of the forearm were followed up. The radius alone was affected in 60% of these cases; the radius and the ulna in 40%. Fractures of the ulna alone were not present. The mean age of the patients at the time of injury was nine years (range one to 16 years) and the mean time of follow-up ten years (range five to 16 years). In addition to the patient's subjective assessment, the right and left sides were compared with regard to mobility of the wrist and rotational movement of the forearm. Based on standard X-rays, the frontal (radio-ulnar) and lateral (dorso-palmar) radial joint angle as well as the difference in the radio-ulnar plane were compared with the contralateral side. Clinical and radiological findings were summarised into an overall result. 19% of the patients reported pain in the injured wrist. Mobility of the wrist in the sagittal and/or frontal plane was limited in 5% of patients and rotation of the forearm was limited in 16% of patients. A statistically significant accumulation of limited rotation was seen after physeal fractures of the ulna (\"one-way\" ANOVA-test, p = 0.0033). A difference between the left and right side in regard to the frontal radial joint angle was seen in 6% of patients and a difference in the lateral radial joint angle was registered in 2% of patients. A difference in the radio-ulnar plane was observed in 37% of patients. In the presence of relative ulna-plus variance, 75% of patients complained of pain in the ulnocarpal compartment of the wrist. In these patients, dynamic magnetic resonance tomography revealed a compression of the ulnocarpal disk between the proximal carpal bones and the head of the ulna, as well as degeneration in the central portion of the disk. The overall outcome was very good in 72%, good in 19%, moderate in 6% and poor in 3% of patients. The younger the children had been at the time of injury, the more favourable were the results (chi-square test, p = 0.009). Children older than ten years of age with an angulatory deformity of more than 20 degrees and/or fragment dislocation over half of the breadth of the shaft at fracture consolidation showed the poorest results. Further factors having a negative influence on the outcome were repeated reduction manoeuvres and an additional fracture of the ulna."}
{"id": "11013801", "title": "Scaphoid fracture. Review of diagnostic tests and treatment.", "content": "Scaphoid fracture. Review of diagnostic tests and treatment. To help make diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fracture more precise by review of published evidence. MEDLINE was searched using the terms \"scaphoid,\" \"carpal navicular,\" \"fracture,\" \"computed tomography,\" \"bone scan,\" and \"scintigraphy.\" Most papers were case-series observational reports. Papers were cited if the case series was large or if there was a high degree of agreement among several observers. The main recommendation for change in treatment of scaphoid fracture is based on two randomized clinical trials involving more than 1000 patients with proven scaphoid fracture. Fracture of the scaphoid requires a specific mechanism of injury. \"Snuffbox\" tenderness is not specific for scaphoid fracture and is not the most useful physical finding; other physical findings provide more specific evidence for or against scaphoid fracture. Physical examination remains the basis of initial treatment and should be thorough and meticulous. X-ray films must be of high quality and should be examined carefully for bone and soft tissue signs of fracture. A Colles'-type short arm cast is adequate for treating common undisplaced scaphoid waist fractures; the thumb need not be immobilized. For suspected scaphoid fractures, without radiologic evidence of fracture, treating symptoms is likely sufficient. Evidence found in the literature can be used to improve diagnostic accuracy for scaphoid fractures, to optimize treatment for these injuries, and to reduce unnecessary immobilization and disability for patients."}
{"id": "11000188", "title": "Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging of scaphoid nonunions.", "content": "Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging of scaphoid nonunions."}
{"id": "10989763", "title": "Congenital synostosis between the scaphoid and the trapezium as a cause of tenosynovitis simulating de Quervain's disease.", "content": "Congenital synostosis between the scaphoid and the trapezium as a cause of tenosynovitis simulating de Quervain's disease. This report describes a case of congenital synostosis between the scaphoid and the trapezium resulting in tenosynovitis simulating de Quervain's disease, an association not previously reported."}
{"id": "10968525", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of growth plate injuries: the efficacy and indications for surgical procedures.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of growth plate injuries: the efficacy and indications for surgical procedures. In 23 patients with growth plate injuries, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were performed a total of 31 times to evaluate the physis which showed plain radiographic evidence of possible damage. Fourteen patients clinically showed growth arrest, and 10 patients required a Langenskiold operation. In 3 patients who underwent this operation, subsequent premature total fusion of the physis adversely affected the postoperative results. We propose that the merging shape of the arrest line with calcification of the provisional zone of the metaphysis shown by MRI indicates poor viability of the physis. MRI provided useful information on the appearance of the growth plate and changes in the metaphysis, both of which affected the prognosis and the results of the surgical procedures."}
{"id": "10955218", "title": "Acute injuries of the distal radioulnar joint.", "content": "Acute injuries of the distal radioulnar joint. Distal radioulnar joint injuries can occur in isolation or in association with distal radius fractures, Galeazzi fractures, Essex-Lopresti injuries, and both-bone forearm fractures. The authors have classified DRUJ/TFCC injuries into stable, partially unstable (subluxation), and unstable (dislocation) patterns based on the injured structures and clinical findings. Clinical findings and plain radiographs are usually sufficient to diagnose the lesion, but axial CT scans are pathognomonic. Diagnostic arthroscopy is the next test of choice to visualize stable and partially unstable lesions. Stable injuries of the DRUJ/TFCC unresponsive to conservative measures require arthroscopic debridement of the TFCC tear, along with ulnar shortening if there is ulnar-positive variance. Partially unstable injuries, on the other hand, are treated with direct arthroscopic or open repair of the TFCC tear, once again, along with ulnar shortening if ulnar-positive variance is present. Unstable injuries include simple and complex DRUJ dislocations. A simple DRUJ dislocation is easily reducible but may be stable or unstable. In complex dislocation, reduction is not possible because there is soft tissue interposition or a significant tear. After the associated injury is dealt with, treatment for complex injuries requires exploration of the DRUJ, extraction of the interposed tissue, repair of the soft tissues, and open reduction and internal fixation of the ulnar styloid fracture (if present and displaced). The early recognition and appropriate treatment of an acute DRUJ injury are critical to avoid progression to a chronic DRUJ disorder, the treatment of which is much more difficult and much less satisfying."}
{"id": "10951111", "title": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Acute fractures of the scaphoid. Nondisplaced fractures of the scaphoid heal with cast immobilization in most cases, but operative treatment is being offered with greater frequency to active patients as an approach to reduce the period of cast immobilization. Computed tomography is more useful for evaluating displacement than standard radiography. Displaced fractures are at greater risk for nonunion and malunion-both of which have been associated with the development of radiocarpal arthritis in long-term studies--and should therefore be treated operatively. Surgical treatment is also recommended for complex fractures (open fractures, perilunate fracture-dislocations, and scaphoid fractures associated with fracture of the distal radius), very proximal fractures, and fractures for which the diagnosis and treatment have been delayed. Operative treatment of fractures of the scaphoid has been simplified by the development of cannulated screws. Internal fixation of fractures of the scaphoid may offer some advantages, including earlier return to athletics or manual labor."}
{"id": "10866091", "title": "MR imaging in suspected acute trauma of wrist bones.", "content": "MR imaging in suspected acute trauma of wrist bones."}
{"id": "10857066", "title": "[Does low intensity, pulsed ultrasound speed healing of scaphoid fractures?].", "content": "[Does low intensity, pulsed ultrasound speed healing of scaphoid fractures?]. Since pulsed low-intensity ultrasound (frequency: 1.5 MHz, pulsed by 1 kHz, signal burst width: 200 microseconds, intensity: 30 mW/cm2) has been proven to stimulate fracture healing both clinically and experimentally, our question was whether this therapy also accelerates healing of fresh stable scaphoid fractures. Addressing this question, we did the following prospective randomized clinical trial. Regarding the results of former clinical fresh fracture studies by Heckman and Kristiansen, we postulated that low intensity ultrasound accelerates healing by about 30%. Based on this thesis, we calculated that 30 patients divided into two groups would be necessary to show significant differences between the standard treatment (treated by casting) and an adjunctive ultrasound treatment (treated by casting and additional daily 20 minutes ultrasound treatment) if present. Diagnosis and healing was assessed by CT scans every two weeks. CT's were analyzed by two independent radiologists and one hand surgeon. Furthermore, areas of cancellous bone bridging in correlation to the diameter of the scaphoid was measured in each CT scan. The results showed ultrasounded fractures healing in 43.2 +/- 10.9 days versus 62 +/- 19.2 days in the control group (p < 0.01). Trabecular bridging six weeks after injury showed 81.2% +/- 10.4% healed in the ultrasound-stimulated fractures versus 54.6% +/- 29% in the control (p < 0.05). Our study results confirm those of Heckman and Kristiansen and show a similar acceleration of bone healing. Low intensity ultrasound is successful in accelerating the healing of fresh scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "10835123", "title": "Metal artifact reduction sequence: early clinical applications.", "content": "Metal artifact reduction sequence: early clinical applications. Artifact arising from metal hardware remains a significant problem in orthopedic magnetic resonance imaging. The metal artifact reduction sequence (MARS) reduces the size and intensity of susceptibility artifacts from magnetic field distortion. The sequence, which is based on view angle tilting in combination with increased gradient strength, can be conveniently used in conjunction with any spin-echo sequence and requires no additional imaging time. In patients with persistent pain after femoral neck fracture, the MARS technique allows visualization of marrow adjacent to hip screws, thus enabling diagnosis or exclusion of avascular necrosis. Other applications in the hip include assessment of periprosthetic soft tissues after hip joint replacement surgery, postoperative assessment after resection of bone tumors and reconstruction, and localization of unopacified methyl methacrylate cement prior to hip arthroplasty revision surgery. In the knee, the MARS technique allows visualization of structures adjacent to implanted metal staples, pins, or screws. The technique can significantly improve visualization of periprosthetic bone and soft-tissue structures even in patients who have undergone total knee arthroplasty. In patients with spinal fixation hardware, the MARS technique frequently allows visualization of the vertebral bodies and spinal canal contents. The technique can be helpful after wrist fusion or screw fixation of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "10811757", "title": "Scaphoid nonunions: a 3-dimensional analysis of patterns of deformity.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunions: a 3-dimensional analysis of patterns of deformity. We tested the hypothesis that the fracture location of scaphoid nonunions relates to the fracture displacement, development of dorsal intercalated segment instability (DISI) deformity, and changes in the contact area of the bones in the radiocarpal joint. Eleven patients with scaphoid nonunions were examined with 3-dimensional computed tomography and a new method of proximity mapping. Two different patterns of displacement of scaphoid nonunions were demonstrated, 1 volar and 1 dorsal. All patients with a volar pattern scaphoid nonunion had a DISI deformity. Only a few of the patients with a dorsal pattern scaphoid nonunion, mostly in longstanding nonunions, had a DISI deformity. The fracture line was generally distal to the dorsal apex of the ridge of the scaphoid in the volar-type fractures and proximal in the dorsal displaced fractures. The proximity map of the distal fragment of the scaphoid on the radius in the volar type shifts radial compared with normal; in the distal type it shifts dorsal. Neither of the patterns showed any significant changes of the proximity map in the radiocarpal joint at the proximal scaphoid fragment and the lunate. Whether the fracture line passes distal or proximal to the dorsal apex of the ridge of the scaphoid appears to determine the likelihood of subsequent fracture displacement, DISI deformity, and contact area of the bones in the radiocarpal joint."}
{"id": "10804418", "title": "[Interscapholunate carpal axial dislocation: a case report].", "content": "[Interscapholunate carpal axial dislocation: a case report]. We present a case of a patient presenting a right wrist injury due to a motor vehicule accident. X-rays and CT Scan showed transcapholunate axial dislocation with the capitate impacted between the scaphoid and the lunate without perilunate dislocation. This injury was associated to a fracture of radial styloid process, trapezium, triquetrum, hamate, and a pisotriquetral and intermetacarpal dissociation. We did not find any similar case in French or English litterature. Treatment associated closed reduction and percutaneous pinning. At one year follow-up the wrist was painless with a normal range of motion. This lesion contributes to the understanding of carpal injuries mechanism. Capitate ascension within the scapholunar joint due to an important compression force is a pathogenic factor of scapholunate dissociation."}
{"id": "10795699", "title": "Avascular necrosis and fracture of the capitate bone: unusual scintigraphic features.", "content": "Avascular necrosis and fracture of the capitate bone: unusual scintigraphic features."}
{"id": "10789100", "title": "Results of treatment of 22 navicular stress fractures and a new proposed radiographic classification system.", "content": "Results of treatment of 22 navicular stress fractures and a new proposed radiographic classification system. Twenty-two navicular stress fractures sustained during athletic activity were retrospectively reviewed for return to activity time and the appearance of fracture pattern on computerized tomography. There were 10 females and nine males, with the average patient age being 27.2 years. Three patients sustained bilateral injuries at separate times. Average follow-up was 36.5 months. Nine patients underwent open reduction, internal fixation (some with bone grafting); this group's average return to activity (RTA) was 3.1 +/- 1.2 months (range, 1.5-5 months). Thirteen patients treated conservatively had an average return to activity of 4.3 +/- 2.8 months (range, 2-13 months). The difference between the two groups' RTA was significant (p = .02). Eleven patients utilized pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMF) and had an average RTA of 4.2 +/- 3.4 months, 27.3% of those patients with PEMF also had surgery. Two conservatively treated fractures that took 5 and 8 months to RTA, respectively, re-fractured during the treatment process. Retrospective review showed CT fracture patterns in the frontal plane that were classified as: dorsal cortical break (type I), fracture propagation into the navicular body (type II), and fracture propagation into another cortex (type III). This is a proposed classification system. It includes modifiers \"A\" (avascular necrosis of a portion of the navicular); \"C\" (cystic changes of the fracture), and \"S\" (sclerosis of the margins of the fracture), the latter of which was most common in our series, particularly in continually symptomatic patients. Type I fractures were more likely to receive conservative treatment (p = .02) and type III fractures took significantly longer to heal than types I and II (p values .001 and .01, respectively). Type I and II injuries had an average RTA of 3.0 and 3.6 months, respectively. Type III injuries had an average RTA of 6.8 months. Based on our findings, we recommend surgery for patients with these modifiers, particularly with type II and III injuries. Conservative treatment may be prolonged, and requires at least 6 weeks of nonweightbearing in a below-knee cast/boot to be successful."}
{"id": "10763131", "title": "[Follow-up of scaphoid pseudarthroses and scaphoid fractures after Herbert screw implantation in the extremities--MRI (low-field MRI)].", "content": "[Follow-up of scaphoid pseudarthroses and scaphoid fractures after Herbert screw implantation in the extremities--MRI (low-field MRI)]. From January 1993 to September 1996, 59 patients with a scaphoid nonunion (38 times mid/distal third, 21 times proximal third) and 21 patients with a scaphoid fracture (17 times mid/distal third, four proximal third) underwent surgery in our clinic. Fractures of the scaphoid were treated by Herbert screw fixation. The operative treatment of nonunions of the scaphoid included the transplantation of an iliac crest graft and Herbert screw fixation. In all cases, an MRI of the carpus in a low-field MRI was carried out pre-operatively in addition to standard X-ray examination. Post-operatively, all patients were again controlled by MRI within defined intervals. The signal intensities of the MRI in the fragments of the scaphoid were determined qualitatively and quantitatively by computer calculation, comparing the pre- and post-operative results with one another. It was possible to depict the entire scaphoid and to determine the signal intensities of the proximal and distal fragments after Herbert screw fixation due to reduced artefacts on T1-weighted images in all cases. 41 patients with scaphoid nonunion and five patients with a scaphoid fracture showed a pre-operative diminishing of the signal in the proximal fragment compared to the distal fragment. For these patients, the fusion rate was lower than in patients without pre-operative signal reduction."}
{"id": "10719103", "title": "Fifteen minutes bone scintigraphy in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and normal x-rays.", "content": "Fifteen minutes bone scintigraphy in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and normal x-rays. Occult fractures of the scaphoid bone occur frequently and may lead to non-union. The use of three-phase bone scintigraphy in patients with normal x-rays of the scaphoid after carpal injury is widely advocated.In this study, 40 patients with negative radiographs but clinically suspected scaphoid fracture, all had rapid bone scintigraphy with images taken 15 min after intravenous injection of 99 m-Technetium Hydroxymethylene diphosphonate. The scan was performed approximately 2 weeks after the trauma. We found 8 fractures of the scaphoid bone and 13 fractures of other carpal bones. In 5 cases the images were inconclusive. At follow-up 6 months to 2 years later we found no patients with non-union. We find this rapid version of the bone scan useful as a second line investigation for continuing wrist pain following trauma in the presence of normal radiography. This can result in a reduction in both time and costs required for the diagnostic process. If the results are inconclusive we recommend a delayed image. CT or MRI could also be considered. In rare cases a wrist arthroscopy may be considered."}
{"id": "10669828", "title": "[Primary carpal bone defect].", "content": "[Primary carpal bone defect]. We present a review of management options in case of carpal bone defect, a relatively frequent discovery. In the literature, diagnosis is usually a fortuitous radiographic finding showing one or several images of carpal defect. Pain is observed in some cases, more exceptionally pathological fracture. The scaphoid, lunatum and hamatum are most frequently involved. Bilateral defects may be observed. Different mechanisms have been put forward to explain the development of intraosseous defects in the carpal bones including intraosseous penetration of synovial tissue, or in situ metaplasia of bone tissue. The main differential diagnoses are osteonecrosis sequellae (for the lunatum and the scaphoid), subchondral defects due to hyperpression and arthropathies in dialysis patients. All authors propose simple surveillance for asymptomatic images. In case of pain, with soft tissue swelling or pathological fractures, filling-excision is warranted depending on the severity of the clinical signs. Prognosis is generally good and recurrence exceptional."}
{"id": "10656983", "title": "In vivo kinematic study of normal wrist motion: an ultrafast computed tomographic study.", "content": "In vivo kinematic study of normal wrist motion: an ultrafast computed tomographic study. To quantify in vivo carpal kinematics of a normal wrist in a dynamic continuous model. The instantaneous changes in the radiocarpal and midcarpal joints during normal wrist motion were analyzed using ultrafast computed tomography (CT). Wrist injuries account for a considerable and growing proportion of work-related disorders and disability. However, little is known about normal wrist kinematics. Ten uninjured subjects were studied using ultrafast CT to measure the continuous motion of the wrist from full flexion to full extension. Sagittal plane scanning was performed mediolaterally at six different locations as the wrists were moved slowly and repeatedly from full flexion to full extension. The data were printed to X-ray film and transferred to an independent work station with a video camera. The motion of the radiocarpal, midcarpal and wrist joints was determined by an image analyzing system. Wrist motion was expressed as a ratio of capitate-lunate (C-L) (midcarpal) motion and radio-lunate (R-L) (radiocarpal) motion. In the volar flexion of normal wrists, the contribution of the radiocarpal joint and midcarpal joint were approximately equal; while dorsal flexion of the normal wrist occurred mainly at the midcarpal joint. In normal wrists, the radiocarpal joint and midcarpal joint contribute equally to volar flexion, while the midcarpal joint is more important in dorsal flexion. In this study, we demonstrated the suitability of using two-dimensional computed tomographic images in a quantitative study of flexion/extension kinematics of the normal wrist."}
{"id": "10628470", "title": "Usefulness of gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging in the evaluation of the vascularity of scaphoid nonunions.", "content": "Usefulness of gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging in the evaluation of the vascularity of scaphoid nonunions. The objective of this article is to identify the role of gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging in the preoperative evaluation of the vascular status of the proximal fragment in scaphoid nonunions. Thirty consecutive patients (27 men and three women; age range, 19-52 years; mean age, 28 years) with nonunion of the scaphoid were prospectively examined with unenhanced and gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging. MR images and surgical findings were classified in four groups according to the vascular status of the proximal fragment (normal bone, moderate ischemic bone, severe ischemic bone, and avascular necrosis). Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of unenhanced and gadolinium-enhanced MR studies were calculated. Surgical findings were used as the gold standard. The postoperative rate of union at 12 months was evaluated for each group. Unenhanced MR imaging showed a global sensitivity of 36%, specificity of 78%, and accuracy of 68% in the preoperative evaluation of the vascular status of the proximal fragment. Correlation with the surgical findings was not statistically significant (p < 0.149). Global sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging were 66%, 88%, and 83%, respectively. Correlation with the surgical findings was good (p < 0.0001). Gadolinium-enhanced sequences allowed accurate diagnosis and enabled the creation of prognostic groups having better correlation with surgical findings and postoperative results. Gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging is the most reliable imaging method for investigating the vascularity of the proximal pole in scaphoid nonunions."}
{"id": "11206349", "title": "Degeneration of the scaphoid-trapezium joint: a useful finding to differentiate calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease from osteoarthritis.", "content": "Degeneration of the scaphoid-trapezium joint: a useful finding to differentiate calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease from osteoarthritis. This study aimed to determine whether osteoarthritis of the scaphoid-trapezium joint (ST osteoarthritis) is associated with calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease (CPDD) in an elderly population with or without concomitant polyarthritis of the finger joints (FIPO). An age- and gender matched case-control study was performed at a university hospital outpatient clinic. Cases and controls were identified from a clinical registry. The case ascertainment process included: (1) chart review for evidence of pyrophosphate crystals from arthrocentesis and/or cartilage calcifications and (2) blinded reading of hand X-rays by three observers for calcification of the triangular fibrocartilage and/or cartilage calcification around the spatium triangulare. Osteoarthritis was graded from 0 to 4 according to the Standard Atlas of Radiographs. The association of ST osteoarthritis with the diagnosis was examined using chi2 tests or the Wilcoxon rank sum test as appropriate. From 65 potential cases, 30 fulfilled the inclusion/exclusion criteria whereas from 185 potential controls, 81 fulfilled the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Thirty controls were matched to cases for gender and age. ST osteoarthritis was much more severe in CPDD (median: 3.0) than in patients with FIPO (median: 0.3) and was strongly associated with the diagnosis (odds ratio 13.8; CI 3.4-59.8). Definite ST osteoarthritis identified CPDD with a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 73% with regard to FIPO. It was concluded that the presence of ST osteoarthritis is a helpful diagnostic finding for the diagnosis of CPDD in an elderly, predominantly female population with a high prevalence of FIPO. Especially in cases without radiographic cartilage or fibrocartilage calcification of the wrist, ST osteoarthritis may point to the correct diagnosis."}
{"id": "10847513", "title": "Does pulsed low intensity ultrasound allow early return to normal activities when treating stress fractures? A review of one tarsal navicular and eight tibial stress fractures.", "content": "Does pulsed low intensity ultrasound allow early return to normal activities when treating stress fractures? A review of one tarsal navicular and eight tibial stress fractures. We sought to evaluate the efficacy of daily pulsed low intensity ultrasound (LIUS) with early return to activities for the treatment of lower extremity stress fractures. Eight patients (2 males, 6 females) with radiographic and bone scan confirmed tibial stress fractures participated in this study. Additionally, a case report of a tarsal navicular stress fracture is described. All patients except one were involved in athletics. Prior to the study, subjects completed a 5 question, 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS) regarding pain level (10 = extreme pain, 1 = no pain) and were assessed for functional performance. Subjects received 20-minute LIUS treatments 5 times a week for 4 weeks. Subjects maintained all functional activities during the treatment period. Seven patients with posterior-medial stress fractures participated without a brace. Subjects were re-tested after 4 weeks of treatment. Mann-Whitney U tests (VAS data) and paired t-tests (functional tests) assessed statistical significance (p<0.05). Although the intensity of practice was diminished in some instances, no time off from competitive sports was prescribed for the patients with the tibial stress fractures. The patient with the anterior tibial stress fracture underwent tibial intramedullary nailing at the conclusion of a season of play. In this uncontrolled experience, treatment of tibial stress fractures with daily pulsed LIUS was effective in pain relief and early return to vigorous activity without bracing for the patients with posterior-medial stress fractures."}
{"id": "10664998", "title": "A one-hour walk-in service for wrist trauma imaging.", "content": "A one-hour walk-in service for wrist trauma imaging. We investigated the feasibility of rapid imaging of wrist trauma following casualty presentation and any subsequent effect on image quality and interpretability. All patients referred for wrist imaging were injected with 370 MBq 99Tcm-hydroxymethyl diphosphonate (HDP) and imaged 1, 2 and 3 h later. Palmar images were acquired on a 256 x 256 x 16 matrix using a high-resolution collimator, 140 keV photopeak and a 20% window. The images were scored qualitatively by four qualified observers in three categories: image quality, lesion detection and lesion localization. Statistical analysis indicated a significant improvement in scan quality with time, the mean difference (+/- standard error of the mean) between the 1 and 3 h scans being 0.81 +/- 0.07 (P = 0.001). No significant differences were seen in lesion detection (0.05 +/- 0.08; P = 0.51) or localization (0.14 +/- 0.08; P = 0.10). We conclude that imaging of wrist trauma is possible as early as 1 h post-injection of 99Tcm-HDP, although negative studies at 1 h require a 3 h image to maintain diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "10622486", "title": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fracture and dedicated extremity MRI.", "content": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fracture and dedicated extremity MRI. We evaluated the value of dedicated extremity magnetic resonance imaging (E-MRI) in patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture and normal initial radiographs. 52 patients underwent E-MRI within a mean of 4 (2-10) days after trauma. Follow-up radiographs were performed at average 11 (8-14) weeks after trauma, and these images were used as the \"gold standard\". A T1-weighted turbo gradient echo 3D and a tau short inversion recovery STIR were performed, both in coronal planes. The imaging time was less than 10 min. The images were evaluated independently by two radiologists. E-MRI detected occult fractures of the scaphoid in 9 patients, and of the distal radius in a further 6 patients. All these fractures were confirmed at follow-up radiographs. Furthermore, E-MRI revealed a fracture of the capitate bone in 1 patient, and of the triquetrum in 2 patients, and in 8 patients, bone bruise in 1 or more of the carpal bones. However, these fractures and bone lesions could not be confirmed by the follow-up radiographs. The agreement between the two examiners was high (kappa = 0.8) for E-MRI detection of fractures. E-MRI seems to be better than radiographs in the early diagnosis of occult fractures of the scaphoid bone and the wrist."}
{"id": "10613233", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fractures, can non-union be prevented?", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid fractures, can non-union be prevented? In order to evaluate the diagnostic management of scaphoid fracture, 100 consecutive patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures were investigated. If a scaphoid fracture was seen on scaphoid radiographs, patients were immobilized in a plaster cast. If the radiographs were negative or dubious for scaphoid fracture, patients were referred for three phase bone scintigraphy. Then the patient was treated according to the result of the bone scan. A long-term follow-up (minimum 1 year) was performed in order to evaluate the incidence of non-union. In 49 of the 100 patients, a fracture of the scaphoid was recognized, in 29 of whom their scaphoid X-series was positive for scaphoid fracture. In 3 of the remaining 71 patients with negative scaphoid X-series, additional carpal box radiographs showed a scaphoid fracture, while 68 patients were referred for three-phase bone scintigraphy. Of these 68 patients, 17 patients (25%) showed a hotspot on the bone scan in the region of the scaphoid. We found that scaphoid radiographs, additional carpal box radiographs and the bone scan (in radiographically negative patients) in combination with conservative therapy did not lead to non-union at long-term follow-up in patients who were treated for scaphoid fracture. We conclude that when a scaphoid fracture is diagnosed within the 1st week followed by plaster immobilization, non-union of the scaphoid could be prevented."}
{"id": "10612202", "title": "[Value of MRI in diagnosis of post-traumatic wrist complaints].", "content": "[Value of MRI in diagnosis of post-traumatic wrist complaints]. The diagnostic value of MRI in acute and chronic posttraumatic wrist pain will be demonstrated in several clinical cases. The integration of MRI in a diagnostic algorithm is discussed. The indication of MRI is given for suspected complex ligamentous lesions, occult fractures and soft tissue pathologies, in particular with disconcordant clinical and radiological signs. Pathology orientated study protocols are presented. Preoperatively, MRI will be helpful in planning definitive surgical treatment."}
{"id": "10598849", "title": "MR imaging in suspected acute trauma of wrist bones.", "content": "MR imaging in suspected acute trauma of wrist bones. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the findings of MR imaging compared to plain radiography in acute wrist trauma. Radiography and MR imaging (obtained at 1.5 T) of 67 patients (38 female, 29 male, aged 15-80 years) were analysed by three senior radiologists in a blinded random fashion. One-third (n= 13) of the 37 fractures observed on MR images were missed on the radiographs. The McNemar test indicated significant differences in diagnoses between radiography and MR. We recommend that MR imaging should be considered in the diagnosis of acute wrist trauma when: 1) There is a clear discrepancy between the clinical status and a negative radiography and when splint treatment would increase cost by causing occupational restrictions; and 2) Healing of trauma diagnosed as contusion or distension does not occur within the expected time."}
{"id": "10597938", "title": "The prognostic value and reproducibility of the radiological features of the fractured scaphoid.", "content": "The prognostic value and reproducibility of the radiological features of the fractured scaphoid. We investigated whether the radiological features of the fractured scaphoid could be reproducibly measured and used to predict the likelihood of union with conservative plaster cast immobilization. We found that the inter- and intra-observer reproducibility of the Compson, Herbert and Russe classification systems were only fair and that none predicted fracture union. Assessments of fracture level, comminution and displacement showed moderate inter- and intra-observer reproducibility but did not predict the likelihood of fracture union. We conclude that the radiological features of acute scaphoid fractures cannot be used to predict the likelihood of fracture union."}
{"id": "10588471", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the humpback scaphoid: the technique and a mathematical performance evaluation.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the humpback scaphoid: the technique and a mathematical performance evaluation. Surgical treatment of scaphoid nonunion and malunion with excessive intrascaphoid angulation (humpback deformity) usually involves a bone graft that is intended to correct the deformity. The volar bone graft length determines the degree of angular correction and scaphoid elongation. It is recommended that the length of the graft be determined by careful preoperative measurement of the deformity. Previous imaging techniques are inherently limited. The present paper describes a technique using three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging. Scaphoid fracture angulation is calculated from measurements of comparable sagittal slices of the patient's fractured and normal scaphoid. Optimal bone graft length is determined by using simple trigonometric principles. Magnetic resonance imaging provides additional important information regarding vascularity of the proximal pole and the status of the periscaphoid ligaments and hyaline cartilage. Mathematical performance evaluation indicates that this technique is a promising method for planning reconstructive surgery of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "10584943", "title": "Scaphoid nonunion and flexor pollicis longus tendon rupture.", "content": "Scaphoid nonunion and flexor pollicis longus tendon rupture. Four patients presented with a rupture of the flexor pollicis longus tendon that was associated with a longstanding scaphoid nonunion. A radiocarpal arthrosis was present in 3 of the 4 patients and a dorsiflexed intercalated segment instability deformity was also seen in 3 of the 4 patients. Three patients underwent surgery consisting of an osteosynthesis with an iliac bone graft for the scaphoid nonunion and a palmaris longus tendon graft for the ruptured flexor pollicis longus tendon. An osseous union of the scaphoid and a functional active range of motion of the thumb interphalangeal joint (33 degrees on average) was attained in all 3 of the patients treated surgically. Preoperative radiologic examinations and intraoperative findings suggest that the volarly protruding distal scaphoid segment is the cause of the rupture."}
{"id": "10584942", "title": "Retrograde compression screw fixation of acute proximal pole scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Retrograde compression screw fixation of acute proximal pole scaphoid fractures. Seventeen consecutive patients with acute unstable proximal pole scaphoid fractures were managed over the past 5 years with open reduction and internal fixation. Four fractures were displaced, with greater than 1 mm of fragment offset and intercarpal malalignment. The operative technique consisted of a dorsal approach to the scaphoid, radius bone grafting, and freehand retrograde Herbert compression screw fixation. The patients were evaluated at an average of 37 months (range, 12-63 months) after surgery. All fractures healed within 13 weeks (average, 10 weeks). Functional wrist range of motion and grip strength were achieved in all patients. No patients developed osteonecrosis or radioscaphoid arthritis. Open reduction and internal fixation rather than primary casting is a better means of reducing the complications of delayed union, nonunion, and irreparable osteonecrosis that often occur after acute proximal pole scaphoid fracture treated with cast immobilization."}
{"id": "10584941", "title": "Distal scaphoid resection arthroplasty for the treatment of degenerative arthritis secondary to scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Distal scaphoid resection arthroplasty for the treatment of degenerative arthritis secondary to scaphoid nonunion. Nineteen patients with chronic scaphoid nonunion and associated degenerative arthritis between the distal fragment and the radial styloid were treated by resection of the distal fragment. All patients had a dorsal intercalated segment instability wrist collapse pattern with an average radiolunate angle of -32 degrees and a 10% reduction in the carpal height, both of which changed minimally during the follow-up period. The duration of the nonunion averaged 12 years and the follow-up period averaged 49 months. Range of motion improved 85% and grip improved 134%. Thirteen of the patients experienced complete pain relief. One patient required additional surgery and elected wrist arthrodesis. Resection of the distal fragment is not recommended for patients with capitolunate arthritis. Two of the 4 patients with capitolunate arthritis had persistent symptoms; 3 had progressive degenerative changes."}
{"id": "10550438", "title": "[Scaphoid fracture and scaphoid pseudarthrosis].", "content": "[Scaphoid fracture and scaphoid pseudarthrosis]. Careful diagnostic and early therapy are especially important in cases of scaphoid fractures. This is due to the patients being mostly young and the high number of non-unions of these carpal bones. Conservative and various operative treatments are therapeutical options. Out of the patients who underwent surgery from January 1993 to February 1999 42 patients with a scaphoid fracture and 88 patients with a scaphoid non-union were, in addition to standard X-ray examination, examined clinically and by MRI pre- and post-operatively. Fractures of the scaphoid were treated by Herbert screw fixation. The operative treatment of non-unions of the scaphoid included the transplantation of an iliac crest graft and Herbert screw fixation. Post-operatively a cast-immobilisation was done. Subjective statements of the patients and clinical results were assessed. The classification of Herbert and Fisher (1984)/Filan and Herbert (1996) for X-rays was used. The signal intensities of the MRI in the fragments of the scaphoid were determined qualitatively and quantitatively by computer calculation, comparing the pre- and post-operative results with one another. Post-operative results of the scaphoid fractures were in most cases good and excellent. 67 patients with a scaphoid non-union and 11 with a scaphoid fracture showed a pre-operative diminishing of the signal in the proximal fragment. For these patients, the fusion rate was lower than in patients without pre-operative signal reduction. The examination shows that in most cases bony fusions with good clinical results could be achieved by Herbert screw fixation. The MRI seems to be able to complete the radiological classification of the fractures regarding a prognosis."}
{"id": "10550430", "title": "[MRI in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of radiocarpal diseases and injuries].", "content": "[MRI in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of radiocarpal diseases and injuries]. Advances in MRI technology have greatly improved visualization of the radio-carpal region. With todays high-resolution imaging, even very small anatomic structures like the triangular fibrocartilage may be seen. Established indications include the osteonecroses (scaphoid and lunate); however, MR images always should be evaluated in conjunction with plain radiographs. By delineating bone marrow edema, MRI is well suited for the detection of microfractures. Visualization of small soft tissue tumors, soft tissue extension of bone tumors and for staging of tumors in general may also be regarded as indications generally agreed upon. Promising indications include pathology of ligaments and similar structures."}
{"id": "10535591", "title": "Vascularized bone graft from the iliac crest for the treatment of nonunion of the proximal part of the scaphoid with an avascular fragment.", "content": "Vascularized bone graft from the iliac crest for the treatment of nonunion of the proximal part of the scaphoid with an avascular fragment. It was hypothesized that nonunion of the proximal third of the scaphoid associated with avascular necrosis could be treated successfully with a free vascularized bone graft obtained from the iliac crest. Fifteen patients who had a nonunion of the proximal part of the scaphoid that had been present for an average of two years and three months (range, nine months to seven years) were managed with use of a free vascularized bone graft obtained from the iliac crest. Avascularity of the scaphoid, as assessed on preoperative radiographs, was characterized by loss of trabecular structure, collapse of subchondral bone, and formation of bone cysts. The results of the procedure were assessed in terms of osseous union, pain, active motion of the wrist, and osteoarthritis. Postoperatively, vascularity of the scaphoid was evaluated with use of magnetic resonance imaging and color Doppler ultrasonography. The average duration of follow-up was six years and one month (range, two years and one month to eight years and one month). Preoperatively, one patient had had pain with any movement of the wrist and fourteen had had pain after strenuous manual labor or sports activity. The average pain score, derived with use of a 10-point visual analog scale, was 2.4 points (range, 1.0 to 6.7 points). Postoperatively, union was achieved in twelve patients; six were pain-free, and six had occasional pain during strenuous manual labor or sports activity, or both. The average pain score for these twelve patients was 1.1 points (range, 0.0 to 4.2 points) on the visual analog scale. Preoperatively, osteoarthritis was limited to the region between the radial styloid process and the distal part of the scaphoid in fourteen patients and to the radioscaphoid region in one patient. Postoperatively, the degree of osteoarthritis remained unchanged in seven of the twelve patients who had union and progressed to the radioscaphoid region in five. Vascularity, as seen on the imaging studies, was restored in all twelve patients who had union. The nonunion persisted in three patients, all of whom had progressive osteoarthritis leading to carpal collapse. The index procedure was successful in twelve of the fifteen patients who had a symptomatic nonunion of the proximal part of the scaphoid associated with avascular necrosis and osteoarthritis that was limited to the radioscaphoid joint."}
{"id": "10507113", "title": "[Bilateral bipartite carpal scaphoid bone: a congenital disease or unrecognized pseudarthrosis? Discussion a propos of a clinical case].", "content": "[Bilateral bipartite carpal scaphoid bone: a congenital disease or unrecognized pseudarthrosis? Discussion a propos of a clinical case]. Bipartite scaphoid has long been debated, and is of traumatic origin for some authors or congenital for others. The aim of the study is to distinguish clinical and radiographic criteria for the diagnosis of congenital bipartite scaphoid. A case of bilateral bipartite scaphoid is presented. To distinguish pseudarthrosis from congenital bipartite scaphoid we used, the revised carpal height ratio of Nattrass, the CT, and magnetic resonance imaging. These examinations showed no collapse and they revealed evidence of articular cartilage around the fragments with the same thickness in all the carpus. We believe that congenital origin is more probable but we recommend to follow the patient, with yearly standard wrist radiograph and use, the revised carpal height ratio of Nattrass to research a carpal shift or collapse."}
{"id": "10476265", "title": "Abnormal scaphoid fat pad: is it a reliable sign of fracture scaphoid.", "content": "Abnormal scaphoid fat pad: is it a reliable sign of fracture scaphoid. In a retrospective study, initial radiographs of 40 proven cases of scaphoid fractures and 40 cases where fractures of scaphoid were eventually excluded were examined in a 'blinded' fashion. In none of these radiographs was a fracture line demonstrated by people who did not know the outcome. In 4 patients with proven fracture, normal scaphoid fat pads were demonstrated; a 10% 'false negative' result and in 9 patients without fracture, abnormal scaphoid fat pads were seen; a 23% 'false positive' result. The authors conclude that the scaphoid fat pad sign is a poor predictor of scaphoid fracture, even though a positive scaphoid fat pad sign indicates that an underlying fracture is likely."}
{"id": "10457271", "title": "Alendronate increases bone density and bone strength at the distal radius in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Alendronate increases bone density and bone strength at the distal radius in postmenopausal women. In addition to the alendronate Osteoporosis Intervention Trial (FOSIT) core protocol 901-0A of 1908 enrolled patients, the use of peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) was explored for the assessment of response to therapy. Bone mineral and strength related parameters at two different sites at the distal radius were explored in a subset of the multicenter core study. One hundred and three patients were entered into the substudy and given either a daily dose of 10 mg of alendronate or placebo for 1 year. Measurements were done at months 0, 3, 6, and 12. Inclusion criteria were bone mineral density (BMD) measurements at the lumbar spine of -2 SD. The response to therapy was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in the lumbar spine and the hip, and by pQCT in the ultradistal and the shaft sites of the radius. In line with the FOSIT core study, alendronate increased BMD at the lumbar spine and the hip, and it decreased the serum biochemical markers of bone turnover. The substudy showed differences between the therapy and placebo group in trabecular bone density (8.4%, p = 0.095), in total density (6.8%, p = 0.009), and in the bone strength index (BSI) (15. 6 mm3, p = 0.037) at the ultradistal site due to treatment and no changes at the radius shaft. A significant correlation was observed between percentage changes from baseline in BMD of the lumbar spine, and in total density and bone strength at the ultradistal radius site in the treatment group, but not in the placebo group. Thus, the ultradistal radius site did respond to alendronate therapy. The increased bone density accompanied a significant gain in the BSI at the ultradistal site, a finding that might help explain the reduced wrist fractures in the alendronate Fracture Intervention Trial."}
{"id": "10454896", "title": "Index of suspicion. Case 2. Fracture of the scaphoid bone.", "content": "Index of suspicion. Case 2. Fracture of the scaphoid bone."}
{"id": "10447631", "title": "Role of metaphyseal cancellous bone defect size in secondary displacement in Colles' fracture.", "content": "Role of metaphyseal cancellous bone defect size in secondary displacement in Colles' fracture. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of the metaphyseal cancellous bone defect size in secondary dislocation of Colles' fracture. Thirty-five patients with a dislocated Colles' fracture were examined by computed tomography (CT) for metaphyseal bone defects. The size of the defect was assessed and related to the surface area of the cross-section of the distal radius at the site of the defect. The relative size of the defect correlated with the severity of dorsal angulation of the fracture but not with the shortening of the radius seen after cast immobilization. We concluded that secondary displacement of the distal radius is partly mediated through the metaphyseal cancellous bone defect, and to prevent malunion in dorsal angulation, operative treatment or possibly filling of the defect should be considered even as early as during primary reduction if a large defect is suspected."}
{"id": "10447624", "title": "Correlation of magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative punctate bleeding to assess the vascularity of scaphoid nonunion.", "content": "Correlation of magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative punctate bleeding to assess the vascularity of scaphoid nonunion. Thirty-two patients with radiographic evidence of scaphoid nonunion were preoperatively evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), then observed intraoperatively for punctate bleeding of the fragments. Although MRI and intraoperative findings matched in 19 patients, there was no correlation in 13 patients. While 7 of these latter patients showed normal MRI but no punctate bleeding during the operation, the remaining 6 had preoperative MRI of avascularity but punctate bleeding during the operation. After internal fixation and bone grafting, all but 1 of these 13 patients achieved union. We conclude that the diagnosis of avascular necrosis should only be made when both MRI and intraoperative findings indicate avascularity."}
{"id": "10433464", "title": "Pseudarthrosis of the capitate.", "content": "Pseudarthrosis of the capitate. Nonunion of an isolated fracture of the capitate is an infrequent condition. The authors present a patient who had few symptoms. Computed tomography showed more bone destruction than the standard X-ray. The nonunion healed with the use of a cancellous bone graft."}
{"id": "10433424", "title": "Load transfer analysis of the distal radius from in-vivo high-resolution CT-imaging.", "content": "Load transfer analysis of the distal radius from in-vivo high-resolution CT-imaging. Prevention of osteoporotic bone fractures requires accurate diagnostic methods to detect the increase in bone fragility at an early stage of osteoporosis. However, today's bone fracture risk prediction, primarily based on bone density measurement, is not sufficiently precise. There is increasing evidence that, in addition to bone density, also the bone microarchitecture and its mechanical loading conditions are important factors determining the fracture risk. Recently, it has been shown that new high-resolution imaging techniques in combination with new computer modeling techniques based on the finite-element (FE) method can account for these additional factors. These techniques might provide information that is more relevant for the prediction of bone fracture risk. So far, however, these new imaged-based FE techniques have not been feasible in-vivo. The objectives of this study were to quantify the load transfer through the trabecular network in a distal radius using a computer model based on in-vivo high-resolution images and to determine if common regions of fractures can be explained as a result of high tissue loading in these regions. The left distal radius and the two adjacent carpal bones of a healthy volunteer were imaged using a high-resolution three-dimensional CT system providing an isotropic resolution of 165 microm. The bone representation was converted into a FE-model that was used to calculate stresses and strains in the trabecular network. The two carpal bones were loaded using different load ratios (for each load case 1000 N in total) representing impact forces on the hand either in near-neutral position or ulnar/radial deviation. The load transfer through the trabecular network of the radius was characterized by the tissue strain energy density (SED) distribution for all load cases. It was found that the distribution of the tissue loading depends on the ratio of the forces acting on the carpal bones. For all load cases the higher SED values (on average: 0.02 +/- 0.08 (S.D.) N mm(-2)) are found in a 10 mm region adjacent to the articular surface which corresponds well with the region where Colles- or Chauffeur-fractures occur. We expect that, eventually, this new approach can lead to a better prediction of the fracture risk than methods based on bone density alone since it accounts for the bone microstructure as well as its loading conditions."}
{"id": "10420293", "title": "[Relation of necrosis to outcome and site of fracture in scaphoid pseudarthrosis].", "content": "[Relation of necrosis to outcome and site of fracture in scaphoid pseudarthrosis]. Usually, untreated scaphoid fractures lead to non-union and partial or complete avascular necrosis. The purpose of our study was to examine the influence of location and fracture line on the pattern of necrosis. Therefore, 85 patients with scaphoid non-union were examined by enhanced highfield MRI. Fractures were classified by location and fracture line. A staging system based on signal intensity in T1-weighted spin-echo sequences in enhanced MRI was used to evaluate extent and location of avascular necrosis, which was found in 81% of our patients. In our patients, viability of the scaphoid was independent of the fracture line without dominance of vertical oblique fractures (2%). Based on our staging system, signal intensity as a sign of fragment viability was reduced in the proximal fragment in 46 patients, whereas in eight patients the distal fragment showed reduced viability. In 26 patients, no difference was found between proximal and distal fragments. Fractures proximal to the transition of middle to distal third showed less viability of the proximal fragment, not dependent of how proximal the fracture was seen. In triple fractures (6%) signal intensity of scaphoid bone was more reduced in enhanced MRI."}
{"id": "10420289", "title": "[Long-term outcome of reconstruction of proximal scaphoid pseudarthroses with Matti-Russe-plasty].", "content": "[Long-term outcome of reconstruction of proximal scaphoid pseudarthroses with Matti-Russe-plasty]. Thirty-two patients who were treated with Matti-Russe grafts between 1985 and 1995 after a fracture of the proximal scaphoid pole were examined in a retrospective study. The purpose of the study was the evaluation of the long-term results of functional outcome, radiological results, and postoperative quality of life. Main object of the study was to clarify whether the development of carpal collapse is inevitable or if it is correlated to the persistence of bony nonunion. Measured parameters were: grip strength and range of motion, pain was evaluated with a visual analog scale from 0 to 100 (VAS). The analysis of the X-rays was carried out with a special wrist-score that was developed for the 1997 meeting of the German Speaking Society for Surgery of the Hand (DAH). The functional outcome was evaluated with the DASH-questionnaire. Twenty-nine patients were male, three were female. In 22 patients the right hand was involved, in ten patients the operation was performed on the left hand. The average follow-up period was 66 months. Bony union was achieved in 26 cases, six patients still demonstrated a persistent nonunion. The mean postoperative pain score was 1.8 (non-stress) and 42.5 (stress) in patients with scaphoid union. Active range of motion and grip strength were 90% compared to the contralateral side, the DASH-score reached 12.73. Only in persistent nonunion an advanced carpal collapse could be detected. The results show the reliability of the Matti-Russe graft in nonunion of fractures of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. Alternative treatment options have no advantages in bony union. The disadvantage of the Matti-Russe graft is the long period of immobilisation."}
{"id": "10404922", "title": "The relation between cortisol excretion and fractures in healthy older people: results from the MacArthur studies-Mac.", "content": "The relation between cortisol excretion and fractures in healthy older people: results from the MacArthur studies-Mac. In persons with depression, higher urinary cortisol is associated with lower bone mineral density. To examine the relation between urinary free cortisol (UFC) and fractures. Community-based samples from Durham, NC, East Boston, MA, and New Haven, CT. 684 men and women, aged 70 to 79 at baseline, who were part of the MacArthur Study of Successful Aging. Cohort study. Participants with previous history of fractures at baseline were excluded. The primary exposure variable was overnight (8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.) UFC (microg/g creatinine) at baseline (1988). Outcomes were self-reported hip, arm, spine, wrist, or other fracture during the follow-up period (1988-1995). Covariates were baseline age, gender, race, body mass index, current physical activity, lower extremity strength, depression subscale of the Hopkins Symptom Checklist, and current use of cigarettes and alcohol. Logistic regression was used to predict the occurrence of incident fractures (1988-1995) as a function of quartiles of baseline UFC. Models were adjusted for age, gender, and race and were also multiply adjusted for the remaining covariates listed above. Gender-stratified models and models that excluded corticosteroid users were also run. In multiply adjusted models, higher baseline levels of UFC were significantly associated with incident fractures. Odds of fracture (95% Confidence Intervals) for increasing quartiles of baseline UFC, multiply adjusted, were: 2.28 (.91, 5.77); 3.40 (1.33, 8.69); 5.38 (1.68, 17.21). Results were not materially influenced by exclusion of persons using corticosteroids. Higher baseline UFC is an independent predictor of future fracture."}
{"id": "10399213", "title": "Three-dimensional motion patterns of the carpal bones: an in vivo study using three-dimensional computed tomography and clinical applications.", "content": "Three-dimensional motion patterns of the carpal bones: an in vivo study using three-dimensional computed tomography and clinical applications. A three-dimensional (3D) CT technique was developed to analyze in vivo segmental carpal kinematics. Transverse CT data of the distal forearm, carpals and proximal metacarpals was acquired and 3D reconstructed in various wrist positions. Carpal kinematics were analyzed in two groups of 20 asymptomatic volunteers, one group in neutral position, flexion and extension (45 degrees), and the other group in neutral position, radial (15 degrees) and ulnar deviation (30 degrees). Qualitative analysis included the 3D study of carpal anatomy, and comparison of carpal bone position between the different sets of data obtained. Carpal bone motion was quantified using rigid body and finite helical axis concepts. The results, although agreeing in principle with previous findings, showed important individual variations in carpal bone motion. Clinical applications were conducted in a series of 25 patients with various wrist disorders. There was no significant difference between the injured wrist and the heterolateral, asymptomatic wrist, but there was a significant difference between asymptomatic volunteers and both the injured wrist and heterolateral wrist of patients. In particular, scaphoid motion was altered bilaterally in our patient group, suggesting the existence of anatomic and/or kinematic factors predisposing to certain carpal pathologies. This hypothesis needs to be confirmed and refined."}
{"id": "10367531", "title": "[Diagnostic difficulties in the diagnosis of bipartite scaphoid: 2 case reports].", "content": "[Diagnostic difficulties in the diagnosis of bipartite scaphoid: 2 case reports]. The case of 2 males (aged 25 and 48) was reported. The bipartite scaphoid was suspected in both. The trial proved one was congenital and the other posttraumatic. The authors applied the criteria suggested by Cotta. The wrist X-ray from childhood and MR may be useful in diagnose."}
{"id": "10357531", "title": "Wire-loop fixation of volar displaced osteochondral fractures of the distal radius.", "content": "Wire-loop fixation of volar displaced osteochondral fractures of the distal radius. We describe the technique of wire-loop fixation to treat 4 young men with a unique variant of Melone's type 4 articular fracture of the volar lunate facet, characterized by a displaced rotated articular fragment supported by a limited amount of subchondral bone. This is an unusual injury that threatens the integrity of both the radiocarpal and distal radioulnar joints. It is the result of a compressive force to the wrist and may require trispiral computed tomography for delineation. Open reduction and internal fixation is recommended to maintain stability and articular congruity. The displaced volar-articular fragment, however, may be relatively small; therefore, direct manipulation could lead to soft tissue stripping and osteonecrosis. We have found the technique of wire-loop fixation to be a simple, reproducible, and effective alternative method of internal fixation for these difficult fractures. Malunion, nonunion, loss of fixation, tendon rupture, infection, arthrosis, or pain caused by hardware has not occurred. Use of this technique is not recommended in patients with osteoporotic bone."}
{"id": "10337550", "title": "Isolated capitate fracture diagnosed by computed tomography. Case report.", "content": "Isolated capitate fracture diagnosed by computed tomography. Case report. Isolated fractures of the capitate, though rare, are probably often missed entirely. As in scaphoid fractures, repeated radiographs, tomography, or bone scanning are necessary for the diagnosis. Reviewing the literature, we found that most capitate fractures reported were transverse or combined with other carpal injuries, including the scapho-capitate fracture syndrome. Our patient presented an isolated oblique intraarticular fracture of the capitate. An old fracture of the styloid process of the ulna was seen at the primary examination. This special type of capitate fracture has not been previously described. The fracture was missed on standard radiographs, but discovered by computed tomography (CT). The different types of fractures of the capitate and their treatment are discussed."}
{"id": "10212614", "title": "Tomography versus computed tomography for assessing step off in intraarticular distal radial fractures.", "content": "Tomography versus computed tomography for assessing step off in intraarticular distal radial fractures. Computed tomography scans have supplanted conventional tomography for many applications and often are considered the imaging study of choice for assessing intraarticular distal radial fractures. Concern about cost containment in healthcare delivery prompts the question of whether the two studies provide comparable information and at what cost. Common intraarticular distal radial fractures were created in 12 lightly embalmed cadaveric specimens. The fractures were fixed with radiolucent Kirschner wires. Articular step off was measured with a caliper. Plain radiographs, computed tomography scans, and trispiral tomograms were obtained of each specimen. Maximal step off was measured blindly by two musculoskeletal radiologists and four hand surgeons. The radiographic measurements were compared with the actual step off and expressed as a positive or negative deviation from the actual value. There was no statistically significant difference between computed tomography scans and tomograms in predicting step off. In addition, the difference between actual and radiographic measurements was insignificant in tomogram readings and different in one of the computed tomography measurements. In the authors' institution, a tomogram costs $200, and a computed tomography scan costs $562. Trispiral tomography is more accurate and cost effective than computed tomography, and thus when available should be considered the imaging modality of choice for assessing articular step off in distal radius fractures."}
{"id": "10098077", "title": "Intra-articular fractures of the distal aspect of the radius.", "content": "Intra-articular fractures of the distal aspect of the radius. Intra-articular distal radius fractures are a heterogeneous group of injuries with different fracture patterns. The existing classification systems are helpful for describing the fractures but not for assessing their stability or for deciding which surgical approach to use. Patients who have a fracture with at least 1.0 mm of displacement of the articular surface may benefit from open surgical treatment. Improved diagnostic imaging with CT is helpful for fracture classification and surgical planning. The options for surgical treatment include limited open reduction and internal fixation, arthroscopically assisted internal fixation, and open reduction and internal fixation. The surgical approach is determined on the basis of the initial displacement of the fracture. Patients who have a displaced fracture of the volar rim may benefit from a volar approach; those who have a dorsally displaced fracture, from a dorsal approach; and those who have an impacted fracture such as a die-punch fracture, from a dorsal approach that provides better visualization of the articular surface. The long-term functional outcome is determined in part by the severity of the fracture as defined by the amount of comminution, the initial severity of displacement, and the number of fracture fragments. The accuracy of the reconstruction of the articular surface, with the goal of establishing congruency to within 1.0 mm, is also important in order to minimize the risk of late osteoarthrosis. Of all of the extra-articular parameters, restoration of the length of the radius is the most important for enhancing recovery of motion and grip strength and for preventing problems involving the distal radioulnar joint--the so-called forgotten joint in distal radial fractures."}
{"id": "10071639", "title": "[Occult fractures of the wrist joint: high resolution image magnification roentgen versus MRI].", "content": "[Occult fractures of the wrist joint: high resolution image magnification roentgen versus MRI]. To compare the diagnostic value of high definition macroradiography and MRI in patients with the suspicion of occult wrist fractures. In a prospective study, 23 patients with clinically suspected wrist fractures and normal initial plain radiographs underwent high resolution macroradiography and MR imaging shortly after trauma. Macroradiographs were taken with a microfocus tube using an anode of 0.03-0.3 mm providing a 4x magnification of the wrist, which was obtained in 4 projections. MR images were performed on a 1.0 T MR unit in coronal planes using T1 weighted SE, T2.-weighted 3D GE, and Turbo-STIR sequences. Follow-up radiographs after 6 weeks were used to confirm the diagnosis of a primary occult wrist fracture. Macroradiography depicted 5 wrist fractures: 4 fractures of the scaphoid bone and 1 fracture of the capitate bone. MRI demonstrated 11 fractures (one of them false-positive): 9 fractures of the scaphoid bone and two fractures of the capitate bone. Using macroradiography, the sensitivity for the detection of occult fractures of the wrist was 50% with a specificity of 100%, using MRI the sensitivity was 100% with a specificity of 92%. MRI seems to be superior to high resolution macroradiography in the detection of occult scaphoid fractures and thus is recommended in the management of patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures not evident on initial plain films."}
{"id": "10068010", "title": "Patterns of healing of scaphoid fractures. The importance of vascularity.", "content": "Patterns of healing of scaphoid fractures. The importance of vascularity. We studied 45 patients with 46 fractures of the scaphoid who presented sequentially over a period of 21 months. MRI enabled us to relate the pattern of the fracture to the blood supply of the scaphoid. Serial MRI studies of the four main patterns showed that each followed a constant sequence during healing and failure to progress normally predicted nonunion."}
{"id": "10048530", "title": "Transverse carpal ligament disruption associated with simultaneous fractures of the trapezium, trapezial ridge, and hook of hamate: a case report.", "content": "Transverse carpal ligament disruption associated with simultaneous fractures of the trapezium, trapezial ridge, and hook of hamate: a case report. Traumatic disruption of the transverse carpal ligament associated with fractures of the trapezial ridge and hook of hamate is a known entity. Only one report of a coronal fracture of the trapezium has been mentioned in the literature. We report a combination of these two injury patterns. Diagnosis was aided by computed tomography. Treatment involved excision of the trapezial ridge and hook of hamate fragments with lag screw fixation of the trapezial body fracture."}
{"id": "9925104", "title": "Kirschner wire embolization to the heart: an unusual cause of pericardial tamponade.", "content": "Kirschner wire embolization to the heart: an unusual cause of pericardial tamponade. A 50-year-old man presented with an abrupt onset of sharp, pleuritic, right-sided chest pain. A chest radiograph revealed a metallic foreign body over the cardiac silhouette; a chest CT scan localized the object to within the wall of the right ventricle. The patient subsequently developed pericardial tamponade necessitating pericardiocentesis. A 25-mm-long Kirschner wire protruding through the wall of the right ventricle was removed via thoracotomy. Forty-two months previously, the patient had undergone open reduction and fixation of a left radius fracture with two Kirschner wires. Clinicians caring for patients with orthopedic wires in place should be aware of wire migration with cardiac embolization as a potential complication."}
{"id": "10855293", "title": "[Fracture of the scaphoid carpal bone secondary to an intraosseous cyst. Apropos of a case].", "content": "[Fracture of the scaphoid carpal bone secondary to an intraosseous cyst. Apropos of a case]. The authors report a cases of scaphoid fracture secondary to an intraosseous cyst in a young patient performing a high-risk sport. Intraosseous synovial cyst is a frequent and usually asymptomatic disease. Its aetiology remains controversial. No cases of fracture have been previously described. Our patient may have presented several risk factors for scaphoid fracture secondary to a synovial cyst."}
{"id": "10193493", "title": "Imaging the problem scaphoid.", "content": "Imaging the problem scaphoid. Scaphoid fractures can be difficult to diagnose on X-ray, even at 2 weeks. We have compared prospectively bone scanning versus MRI scanning in 22 patients with persistent signs and symptoms suggestive of a scaphoid fracture at 2 weeks and found both methods to be sensitive, but MRI to be more specific, particularly in diagnosing soft tissue injuries like scapho-lunate ligament ruptures and triangular fibrocartilage tears. An early MRI scan at 2 weeks allows the clinician to make the appropriate decision in this group of patients whose diagnoses include; occult scaphoid fractures, other occult carpal and radial fractures, ligamentous injuries and those without apparent injuries. MRI has also been useful in defining the group of injuries which may imitate a clinically occult scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "10101444", "title": "[Indices of mechanical strength of the distal radius in healthy women and women with Colles fracture].", "content": "[Indices of mechanical strength of the distal radius in healthy women and women with Colles fracture]. Wrist fractures (Colles) are one of the most frequently observed osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. The aim of our study was the comparison of mechanical properties of distal radius of women with Colles fracture using a Stratec XCT 960 peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) in relation to age-pair controls without a wrist fracture. Using the pQCT method for estimation of SSI (Strength Strain Index), we found significant differences of SSI values in Colles subjects. In clinical practice, pQCT offers new diagnostic tools which cannot be provided by conventional densitometric methods."}
{"id": "9921930", "title": "A comparison of bone scintigraphy and MRI in the early diagnosis of the occult scaphoid waist fracture.", "content": "A comparison of bone scintigraphy and MRI in the early diagnosis of the occult scaphoid waist fracture. To determine the accuracy of MRI in the assessment of the radiographically occult scaphoid fracture. This prospective study compared the sensitivity and specificity of MRI for detection of radiographically occult scaphoid fractures with bone scintigraphy (BS), the currently accepted imaging modality of choice. Consecutive patients with clinical signs of a scaphoid injury but no evidence of fracture on plain radiographs at presentation and after 7-10 days were evaluated by MRI and BS. All images were reported in masked fashion and the sensitivities and specificities of the imaging modalities determined. All patients with a scaphoid fracture demonstrated by MRI or BS were followed for at least a year after injury. Forty-three subjects (aged 12-74 years) had both MRI and BS carried out on average 19 days from the injury date. Six patients (14%) had scaphoid waist fractures. There were other bony injuries in a further six. In 40 patients there was agreement between the BS and MRI findings. In three cases there was discrepancy between the imaging modalities; in all three MRI was found to be the more sensitive and specific. MRI could become the investigation of choice for this injury."}
{"id": "9889659", "title": "[MRI scanning in suspected fractures of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[MRI scanning in suspected fractures of the scaphoid bone]. MR examination was performed in 20 patients clinically suspected of having a fracture of the scaphoid bone. The patients also followed the normal routine with conventional radiographs in the acute fase and after 10-12 days. The MR was in most cases performed within a day after the trauma. All fractures seen on conventional radiographs were depicted on MR. MR further showed four fractures, five bone contusions (bone bruise) and lesions of the soft tissues in 75% of the patients. In patients with suspected fracture of the scaphoid, MR seems to be the best primary imaging method and displays a wide range of lesions."}
{"id": "9888678", "title": "Progressive patterns of degenerative arthritis in scaphoid nonunion demonstrated by three-dimensional computed tomography.", "content": "Progressive patterns of degenerative arthritis in scaphoid nonunion demonstrated by three-dimensional computed tomography. Degenerative arthritis following scaphoid nonunion was studied in 28 patients (29 wrists) using X-ray computed tomography and three-dimensional computed tomography (3-DCT). Degenerative changes were observed in 18 wrists with plain radiography and 27 wrists with 3-DCT. 3-DCT imaging more readily revealed osteophyte formation in osteoarthritis than plain radiography. 3-DCT images showed degenerative changes in the distal fragment of the scaphoid earlier than plain radiography. We found three stages of osteophyte formation in the radioscaphoid joint using 3-DCT. In the first stage, a linear osteophyte formed along the most radial portion of the distal fragment of the scaphoid. In the second stage, the radial styloid became pointed. In the third stage, the osteophyte on the distal fragment enlarged and lay over the dorsum of the radioscaphoid joint and other intercarpal joints."}
{"id": "9820289", "title": "Distal radius fractures: mechanisms of injury and strength prediction by bone mineral assessment.", "content": "Distal radius fractures: mechanisms of injury and strength prediction by bone mineral assessment. The strength of the radius depends on the mechanical properties of cancellous and cortical bone. By assessing both compartments quantitatively with bone densitometry, we tried to identify the specificity of each in predicting the load at which the distal radius will fracture. Twenty human cadaver forearms were scanned for bone mineral and geometric properties with quantitative computed tomography and dual x-ray absorptiometry. In both a neutral loading situation and one in which the wrist was extended 45 degrees, the load distribution was determined with pressure-sensitive films, and a fracture simulating a fall on the hand was produced with a material testing machine. Fractures that occur with the wrist in extension were produced by a central impact of the scaphoid onto the radiocarpal joint, and those that occur under neutral loading conditions were produced by a more commonly distributed loading pattern. The load at fracture was most specifically predicted (r2=0.74) by bone mineral and geometric measures of the cortex at the shaft of the radius. Bone mineral density measures of trabecular (r2=0.64) and total (r2=0.66) bone were less successful in predicting the fracture load. After adjustment for bone size, the geometric and density measures revealed similar specificity. Cortical bone, therefore, contributes significantly to the strength of the distal radius and may play an important role in the prediction of osteoporotic wrist fractures."}
{"id": "9798450", "title": "Limited diagnostic value of macroradiography in suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Limited diagnostic value of macroradiography in suspected scaphoid fractures. In a prospective study 60, patients having suspected occult scaphoid fractures, but with normal conventional scaphoid radiographs, also underwent macroradiography. Clinical and conventional radiographic follow-up examinations and MRI identified 8 occult scaphoid fractures and 23 nonscaphoid lesions. Macroradiography identified only 50% of the occult scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "9715052", "title": "MRI monitoring of tarsal navicular stress fracture healing--a case report.", "content": "MRI monitoring of tarsal navicular stress fracture healing--a case report. Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular bone are rare injury and assessing its healing is difficult. Tenderness over the tarsal navicular on physical examination is the most reliable sign for assessing fracture healing. However, it is desirable to assess fracture healing with some imaging method. We used serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assess healing in a patient with a tarsal navicular stress fracture. MRI was useful for the assessment of fracture healing of tarsal navicular stress fracture in our case."}
{"id": "9700423", "title": "The role of arthroscopy in the treatment of wrist injuries in the athlete.", "content": "The role of arthroscopy in the treatment of wrist injuries in the athlete. Wrist arthroscopy provides an ideal means of evaluating intraarticular soft-tissue injuries of the wrist. Many lesions such as tears of the triangular fibrocartilage complex can be treated by arthroscopic means as well. Reduction of articular fractures of the distal radius and pin fixation, reduction of scaphoid fractures and intramedullary fixation, and arthroscopic reduction and transcutaneous pin stabilization of acute carpal dissociation patterns can all be accomplished with minimally invasive techniques under arthroscopic control. These measures often provide the athlete with shorter periods of immobilization and earlier return to athletic competition. Wrist arthroscopy provides a very useful adjunct to the treatment armamentarium of all sports medicine physicians."}
{"id": "9699835", "title": "Poor interobserver reliability of AO classification of fractures of the distal radius. Additional computed tomography is of minor value.", "content": "Poor interobserver reliability of AO classification of fractures of the distal radius. Additional computed tomography is of minor value. Interobserver reliability of the AO system of classification of fractures of the distal radius was assessed using plain radiographs and CT. Five observers classified 30 Colles'-type fractures using only plain radiographs; two months later they were reclassified using CT in addition. Interobserver reliability was poor in both series when detailed classification was used. By reducing the categories to five, interobserver reliability was slightly improved, but was still poor. When only two AO types were used, the reliability was moderate using plain radiographs and good to excellent with the addition of CT. The use of CT as well as plain radiographs brings interobserver reliability to a good level in assessment of the presence or absence of articular involvement, but is otherwise of minor value in improving the interobserver reliability of the AO system of classification of fractures of the distal radius."}
{"id": "9665518", "title": "Combining the clinical signs improves diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. A prospective study with follow-up.", "content": "Combining the clinical signs improves diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. A prospective study with follow-up. This is a prospective study evaluating the efficacy of four clinical signs believed to be useful in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. Two hundred and fifteen consecutive patients with suspected scaphoid fracture were examined on two separate occasions to evaluate tenderness in the anatomical snuff box (ASB), tenderness over the scaphoid tubercle (ST), pain on longitudinal compression of the thumb (LC) and the range of thumb movement (TM). At the initial examination ASB, ST and LC were all 100% sensitive for detecting scaphoid fracture with specificities of 9%, 30% and 48% respectively. These clinical signs used in combination, within the first 24 hours following injury, produced 100% sensitivity and an improvement in the specificity to 74%. TM had 69% sensitivity and 66% specificity. Our results suggest that these clinical signs are inadequate indicators of scaphoid fracture when used alone and should be combined to achieve a more accurate clinical diagnosis."}
{"id": "9661853", "title": "Carpal fractures in children.", "content": "Carpal fractures in children. Carpal fractures in children are uncommon injuries, with the scaphoid being fractured most frequently. Thirty-three children with scaphoid fractures and one child each with fractures of triquetrum, trapezoid, hamate, and capitate were retrospectively reviewed. The mean age was 13 years, 4 months. The mechanism of injury was of low energy in most cases, with > 80% of injuries involving a fall. Localizing tenderness was present in 100% of cases. Of fractures, 97.3% were evident on the initial radiographs. One patient required a bone scan to confirm the diagnosis. All but one scaphoid fracture went on to union with conservative treatment in a long-arm thumb spica cast or short-arm thumb spica cast at a mean of 7.1 weeks. All other carpal fractures healed at a mean of 4.5 weeks. The one scaphoid nonunion was attributed to noncompliance by the patient."}
{"id": "9646707", "title": "[Classification of distal radius fractures--comparison of spiral CT with conventional roentgen image].", "content": "[Classification of distal radius fractures--comparison of spiral CT with conventional roentgen image]."}
{"id": "9607678", "title": "Palmar perilunate fracture-dislocation of the carpus.", "content": "Palmar perilunate fracture-dislocation of the carpus. We report an uncommon palmar translunate, transhamate carpal fracture dislocation. CT-scans with three-dimensional reconstruction were most helpful for the assessment of the injury, which was treated operatively through a palmar approach. The lunate and hamate fractures were fixed using mini-screws and the radial styloid fracture and the scaphoid were reduced and stabilized with K-wires."}
{"id": "9607660", "title": "Proximal scaphoid costo-osteochondral replacement arthroplasty.", "content": "Proximal scaphoid costo-osteochondral replacement arthroplasty. Deficiency of the proximal pole of the scaphoid due to fracture or necrosis was treated by costo-osteochondral replacement arthroplasty using rib bone/cartilage autografts in 22 patients who were followed prospectively and assessed at a median 24 month follow-up (range, 12-72 months). Improvement of wrist function occurred in all patients with increased motion, improved grip strength and less pain. The average modified Green and O'Brien Wrist Function Score improved from 53 out of 100 preoperatively to 80 at the most recent review. All patients were graded fair or poor at initial review and all but three improved to good or excellent at the most recent assessment. Despite the absence of the scapholunate ligament, carpal alignment did not deteriorate in any patient and there were no graft non-unions or significant complications. In the short and medium term a costo-osteochondral autograft can satisfactorily restore mechanical integrity of the scaphoid proximal pole and maintain wrist motion while avoiding the potential complications of alternative replacement arthroplasty techniques."}
{"id": "9556261", "title": "Intrasound vibration in the early diagnosis of scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Intrasound vibration in the early diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. A prospective trial was designed to assess the sensitivity and specificity of intrasound vibration for the early detection of scaphoid fracture. We replicated the method described by Finkenburg et al. (J Hand Surg 1993;18A:4-7) in an attempt to corroborate their results. We found the test to be 73% sensitive and 51% specific. Because the test was not 100% sensitive, as claimed by Finkenburg et al., we discontinued the use of this device in our hospital."}
{"id": "9556260", "title": "Is intrasound vibration useful in the diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures?", "content": "Is intrasound vibration useful in the diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures? This study was designed to confirm the results of Finkenberg et al. (J Hand Surg 1993;18A: 4-7), who found a high sensitivity (100%) and specificity (95%) of the intrasound vibration method in diagnosing occult scaphoid fractures. These occult scaphoid fractures are not visible on x-ray films, but clinically the patients are suspected of having a scaphoid fracture. A vibratory apparatus is placed over the anatomical snuff-box and a vibration of 100 mW is emitted; a painful sensation is produced if the scaphoid is fractured. Thirty-seven consecutive patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture were evaluated. In 6 patients, a scaphoid fracture was radiographically identified; in the remaining 31 patients, a 3-phase bone scan was obtained. Eleven wrists showed increased uptake over the scaphoid and were considered to have an occult scaphoid fracture. In this group, bone scintigraphy was used as the reference standard. The vibration test was painful in 1 of 6 patients with a proven scaphoid fracture and in 3 of the 11 patients with a positive bone scan. In contrast to the results of Finkenberg et al, the intrasound vibration method shows a sensitivity of 24%, a specificity of 85%, a positive predictive value of 40%, and a negative predictive value of 65%. We conclude that the accuracy of intrasound vibration is low and that it is not useful in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "9523959", "title": "Measurement of the scaphoid humpback deformity using longitudinal computed tomography: intra- and interobserver variability using various measurement techniques.", "content": "Measurement of the scaphoid humpback deformity using longitudinal computed tomography: intra- and interobserver variability using various measurement techniques. The intra- and interobserver variability of 3 techniques for measuring the humpback deformity of 37 scaphoids using longitudinal computed tomography was assessed. The 3 measuring techniques were the lateral intrascaphoid angle, the dorsal cortical angle, and the height-to-length ratio. The intraobserver reliability of the intrascaphoid angle was poor; the dorsal cortical angle was moderate to excellent, and the height-to-length ratio was excellent. The interobserver reliability of the intrascaphoid angle was poor to moderate, the dorsal cortical angle was moderate to excellent, and the height-to-length ratio was moderate to excellent. For all 3 observers, the intra- and interobserver reliability was the best for the height-to-length ratio and worst for the intrascaphoid angle. The height-to-length ratio is the most reproducible method of assessing the humpback deformity. Clinical correlation is required to establish whether the height-to-length ratio will be of value in predicting the outcome of fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "9522669", "title": "[Prospective comparison of MRI vs. direct magnification radiography in occult fractures of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Prospective comparison of MRI vs. direct magnification radiography in occult fractures of the scaphoid bone]. The diagnosis of occult fractures of the scaphoid bone is even more challenging than that of conventional fractures of the scaphoid. This study aimed to compare prospectively the gold standard method (plain radiographs in four projections, after about 14 days) and the primary findings with direct magnification radiography (DIMA) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Primary MRI showed much higher diagnostic power than plain radiography at 10-14 days in occult scaphoid fractures and in detection of associated carpal injuries. This may lead to a decreasing time of disease. DIMA was inferior in detecting occult fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "9509598", "title": "Short tau inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging in occult scaphoid injuries: effect on management.", "content": "Short tau inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging in occult scaphoid injuries: effect on management. Over a 21-month period, 16 patients with possible scaphoid fractures, where conventional radiographs were essentially normal on the day of injury and 10 days later, were examined by coronal short tau inversion recovery (STIR) and T1 weighted sequences on a 0.2 Tesla scanner. The magnetic resonance (MR) examinations were done in between electively booked patients and management was altered in 50% of patients. It was expedient to do MR as radio-isotope facilities were not available at the hospital. In four patients, the examination was entirely normal. In another four patients, intercarpal fluid collections only were demonstrated (two generalized and two localized). In these patients a plaster cast was not re-applied. In two patients, bony injuries of the distal radius were demonstrated instead, with the scaphoid being normal. In the remaining six patients, variable appearances were shown, ranging from an actual fracture line demonstrated on both STIR and T1-weighted images with the remainder of the scaphoid being hyperintense on STIR and hypointense on T1, to non-visualization of the actual fracture line, which appeared to be represented by a much more hyperintense band through the waist of an otherwise hyperintense scaphoid on the STIR sequence. In all these patients a plaster cast was re-applied empirically, including those patients with a definite fracture and those patients with apparent bone contusion only. Although the T1-weighted images were anatomically superior, their addition did not alter management and it is suggested that coronal STIR images should suffice to demonstrate occult fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "9509596", "title": "Gadolinium-enhanced dynamic MRI of the fractured carpal scaphoid: preliminary results.", "content": "Gadolinium-enhanced dynamic MRI of the fractured carpal scaphoid: preliminary results. The aim of the present report was to evaluate the vascularity of fracture fragments of the fractured carpal scaphoid in the acute (< 4 weeks) and chronic (> 3 months) phases using a gadolinium-enhanced dynamic MRI sequence. Eight patients with acute scaphoid fractures, six patients with chronic scaphoid fractures, and three control patients without fractures were evaluated using a T1-weighted fast spoiled gradient recalled acquisition (fSPGR) sequence with gadolinium-DTPA enhancement (0.1 mmol/kg bodyweight). Signal intensity over time plots were obtained using region of interest measurements from both fracture fragments. Enhancement factors (EF) were then calculated from the plots. No enhancement of the scaphoid was seen in control subjects (EF: distal scaphoid pole 1.04 +/- 0.01, proximal pole 1.07 +/- 0.08). In acute fracture patients, enhancement of the distal pole was greater than that of the proximal in all cases but one in which the two poles enhanced in a similar fashion (EF: distal 1.99 +/- 0.77, proximal 1.43 +/- 0.99). In chronic fracture patients the enhancement pattern was reversed, as the proximal pole enhanced to a greater degree than the distal with the exception of one case where both poles enhanced equally (EF: distal 1.74 +/- 0.52, proximal 2.64 +/- 0.50). Using a two-tailed non-parametric Mann-Whitney U-test, the difference in enhancement of the proximal poles between the acute and chronic groups was found to be highly significant (P < 0.003). Dynamic contrast-enhanced (fSPGR) MRI demonstrates significant differences in the enhancement patterns of the scaphoid when chronic and acute fractures are compared."}
{"id": "9467190", "title": "Upper extremity radionuclide bone imaging: the wrist and hand.", "content": "Upper extremity radionuclide bone imaging: the wrist and hand. Bone scintigraphy of the hands and wrists represents an important adjunct imaging technique that complements plain film radiographic examination. The use of the three-phase bone scan provides clinical information not only regarding osseous uptake but the blood flow and extravascular distribution of the radiotracer as well. Scintigraphic evaluation of the hands and wrists is employed in acute and chronic conditions. In the event of an equivocal or negative plain film, the bone scan can identify occult fractures. Of particular concern is the identification of scaphoid fractures due to the higher incidence of osteonecrosis. Work related injuries represent a significant health issue. The bone scan can be a part of the algorithm for evaluating chronic pain syndromes including reflex sympathetic dystrophy. The complimentary roles of bone scanning and imaging with gallium-67 citrate or radiolabeled leukocytes has proven useful in the evaluation of acute or chronic osteomyelitis. In addition, the diphosphonates are useful in identifying solitary and multiple primary bone tumors. In the case of primary bone tumor, thallium-201 can be used to evaluate response to therapy. Although uncommon in the hand and wrist, the bone scan can identify metastatic tumors or tumor-related conditions such as hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. Finally, bone scintigraphy may be useful in identifying location and extent in a variety of conditions such as fibrous dysplasia, histiocytosis X, and Paget's disease."}
{"id": "9456991", "title": "Commonly missed orthopedic problems.", "content": "Commonly missed orthopedic problems. When not diagnosed early and managed appropriately, common musculoskeletal injuries may result in long-term disabling conditions. Anterior cruciate ligament tears are some of the most common knee ligament injuries. Slipped capital femoral epiphysis may present with little or no hip pain, and subtle or absent physical and radiographic findings. Femoral neck stress fractures, if left untreated, may result in avascular necrosis, refractures and pseudoarthrosis. A delay in diagnosis of scaphoid fractures may cause early wrist arthrosis if nonunion results. Ulnar collateral ligament tears are a frequently overlooked injury in skiers. The diagnosis of Achilles tendon rupture is missed as often as 25 percent of the time. Posterior tibial tendon tears may result in fixed bony planus if diagnosis is delayed, necessitating hindfoot fusion rather than simple soft tissue repair. Family physicians should be familiar with the initial assessment of these conditions and, when appropriate, refer patients promptly to an orthopedic surgeon."}
{"id": "9423687", "title": "Value of MR imaging in the detection of occult scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Value of MR imaging in the detection of occult scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "10023165", "title": "Bone fragments imaging by means of 3D computerised tomography.", "content": "Bone fragments imaging by means of 3D computerised tomography."}
{"id": "9518213", "title": "[Scaphocapitate dislocation-fracture of the wrist joint in the setting of multiple injury].", "content": "[Scaphocapitate dislocation-fracture of the wrist joint in the setting of multiple injury]. Scaphocapitate fracture syndrome (SCFS) as part of perilunar distortion injuries (PL, PLF) in the human wrist is still remarkably rare. The diagnosis is determined by careful physical and radiological examinations, including conventional radiographs. Computed tomography can be helpful in detecting such lesions. In our opinion, the high risk of post-traumatic arthrosis because of carpal instability in a osteoligamental injury requires operative reconstruction in nearly all cases. We report the possibility of operative treatment in a case of scaphocapitate fracture syndrome (Fenton) by implantation of 2-mm mini-bone screws, while the use of K-wires or Herbert bone screws has been described in former articles."}
{"id": "9494249", "title": "Lesions of the triangular fibrocartilage in fractures of the wrist.", "content": "Lesions of the triangular fibrocartilage in fractures of the wrist. MRI conducted in 32 cases of distal fracture of the radius a mean of 93 days after trauma allowed for the identification of various lesions of the soft tissues among which those of the triangular fibrocartilaginous complex. These observations confirm the presence of lesions of the triangular fibrocartilaginous complex (TFC) among immediate complications of distal fractures of the radius and the diagnostic role of MRI in post-traumatic ulnar pain."}
{"id": "9481587", "title": "Overload syndromes of the peritalar region.", "content": "Overload syndromes of the peritalar region. The purpose of this study was to identify the diagnostic possibilities of the different diagnostic techniques in the evaluation of the pathological conditions affecting the peritalar region. Between September 1995 and December 1996, 58 patients, with a painful syndrome at peritalar level were submitted to MRI, which was performed using a 'dedicated system' consisting of 0.2 and 0.5 T equipment. Spin-Echo T1-weighted and Gradient-Echo T2-weighted sequences were used on sagittal, coronal and axial planes, with slice thickness of 3-5 mm. Conventional radiography was previously performed in all patients, while 18 of them underwent CT. Surgery or arthroscopy was performed in 22 cases. 36 patients underwent clinical follow-up associated with conventional radiography in six cases, MRI in 11 and to both of them in six patients. After arthroscopy and surgery, an involvement of the tibio-talar joint was found (one pathogenic synovial plica, three meniscoid syndrome and 12 anterior impingement) in 16 patients. Concerning the subtalar joint, surgical examination revealed a cellulo-adipostis of the sinus tarsi in two patients, while in three cases osteochondral damage of the subtalar joint was identified. In the last patient, degenerative changes of the posterior tibial tendon associated with osteochondral pathology of the talo-navicular joint were found. MRI findings agreed with the surgical and arthroscopic ones in all patients except for the synovial plica; in this case, the MRI was negative. Follow-up performed on 36 patients revealed 12 tibio-talar joint, 17 subtalar joint and 7 talo-navicular joint pathological conditions. Concerning the tibio-talar joint, MRI findings were confirmed by arthroscopy in all cases of anterior impingement. Magnetic resonance (MR), due to its capability in detecting osteochondral damage and identifying osteophyte sites, results in the best imaging method for evaluating this condition. Meniscoid syndrome is easily detected by MRI only in the presence of sufficient scar tissue, while conventional radiography reveals the calcific stage. In sinus tarsi syndrome, the ligamentous damage associated with sero-hemorrhagic effusion at fatty tissue level may lead to a 'chopping' effect on the nerve endings: this condition is well demonstrated by MRI. In all cases of osteochondral alterations affecting both the subtalar and talo-navicular joint, it has been possible to obtain correct diagnosis with MRI, which also depicted well the tenosynovitis of the posterior tibial tendon. In cases of stress fracture of the navicular bone, both CT and MRI demonstrated the lesions well, even when, in the early phases, conventional radiography produced a negative result. In conclusion, MRI may be considered the choice method in the study of different pathological alterations affecting the peritalar region, also providing detailed information useful for a therapeutic approach."}
{"id": "9480593", "title": "[Clinical examination of the injured wrist].", "content": "[Clinical examination of the injured wrist]. A highly differentiated clinical examination of the wrist joint has been established in the past years. The history of the accident is usually unreliable, but patient's statement of a hyperflexion injury should alert for a fracture of the scaphoid tubercle. First of all, X-rays of the wrist indicate therapy in the case of fractures and gross dislocations. Only after some days of reduction of pain and swelling, a thorough clinical examination will be possible, which consists of: localizing points of tenderness, in particular the scapho- lunate, lunato-triquetal and the scapho-trapezio-trapezoid (SL-, LT- and STT-) joints and the triangular fibrocartilage (TFC); testing for abnormal dorso-palmar shifts of the carpus and the ulnar head; provoking catch up clunks by radio-ulnar movements of the clenched fist; provoking subluxations, in particular of the scaphoid in Watson's test; provoking pain in the discuss grinding test. Comparing clinical diagnosis with arthroscopic findings in 37 patients, the results for ligamentous lesions in general, SL ligament lesions in particular and for TFC lesions were as follows: sensitivity 100%, 91% and 69%, resp.; specificity 77%, 77% and 67%, resp.; positive predictive values 75%, 62% and 61%, respectively. In conclusion, exact clinical examination is a reliable tool to determine further diagnostics and therapy of wrist injuries."}
{"id": "9457595", "title": "Occult fractures of the scaphoid. The diagnostic usefulness and indirect economic repercussions of radiography versus magnetic resonance scanning.", "content": "Occult fractures of the scaphoid. The diagnostic usefulness and indirect economic repercussions of radiography versus magnetic resonance scanning. Scaphoid fractures that are not visible on initial radiographs are notoriously difficult to diagnose. This prospective study compared four-view plain radiography at an average of 14 days after injury, with high-definition macroradiography and magnetic resonance imaging at presentation. Initial magnetic resonance imaging was superior to repeat scaphoid radiography for the confirmation or exclusion of fractures as well as for the detection of associated wrist injuries. Macroradiography was unsuitable for screening for occult scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "9454275", "title": "[MRI in radiologically occult scaphoid fractures. Initial experiences with 1.0 Tesla (whole body-middle field equipment) versus 0.2 Tesla (dedicated low-field equipment)].", "content": "[MRI in radiologically occult scaphoid fractures. Initial experiences with 1.0 Tesla (whole body-middle field equipment) versus 0.2 Tesla (dedicated low-field equipment)]. The study was performed to determine the diagnostic value of different MR systems and field strengths in patients with occult scaphoid and wrist fractures. Twelve patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture but normal plain radiographs were examined by MRI. A dedicated 0.2-T unit (Esaote) and a 1.0-T unit (NT10, Philips) were used. Coronal T1W-SE, STIR, and T2*W-GE sequences were obtained with both systems. Images were evaluated for a bone marrow abnormality, a trabecular or cortical fracture line, and were compared to the 6-week follow-up radiographs. Seven wrist fractures were found at 0.2 T and 1.0 T, proven in the follow-up radiographs. A bone marrow abnormality was present in all seven fractures on both systems. Trabecular and cortical fracture lines were visualized at 0.2 T in four cases and at 1.0 T in seven cases. Low-field MR imaging at 0.2 T and mid-field MR imaging at 1.0 T seem to be equivalent in the diagnosis of a fracture in radiographically occult scaphoid and wrist fractures. In the visualization of fracture details, important for therapeutic and prognostic considerations, 1.0 T seems to be superior."}
{"id": "9379200", "title": "Improved wrist fracture localization with digital overlay of bone scintigrams and radiographs.", "content": "Improved wrist fracture localization with digital overlay of bone scintigrams and radiographs. The diagnosis of scaphoid fracture is often difficult and of interest in traumatology. Because of the low sensitivity of repeated scaphoid radiographs, a bone scintigram is advocated and considered the gold standard. In this study, we tried to simplify the interpretation of the bone scintigram of hand and wrist in localizing the hot spot by the digital overlay of the radiograph and the bone scintigram, using a simple device, in patients after wrist trauma. Twenty-one consecutive patients (22 wrists) with clinically-suspected scaphoid fracture and negative initial radiographs were included. The PA view of the wrist was obtained with the hand of the patient placed in an acrylic device with three lead markers. For the bone scan, a similar device was used with 57Co markers at the same positions. We called this device the \"hand-fix.\" The PA radiograph was digitized with a videocamera and overlaid on the bone scan. Each bone scan was interpreted twice by each of three observers, one nuclear physician and two residents in nuclear medicine. The first interpretation was made without the digital overlay, and the second was made with the digital overlay. The bone scintigrams were positive in the scaphoid, distal radius and in other carpal bones. Out of the 22 bone scans, Observer 1 judged 19 correctly, Observer 2 judged 16 correctly and Observer 3 judged 10 correctly without the digital overlay images. All three observers gave a correct localization in the 22 wrists using the digital overlay images. The digital overlay of a radiograph and a bone scintigram, using the hand-fix, simplifies and improves interpreting and localizing the hot spot on bone scintigrams in patients with wrist injuries."}
{"id": "9369511", "title": "Diagnostic value of MR arthrography in detection of intrinsic carpal ligament lesions: use of cine-MR arthrography as a new approach.", "content": "Diagnostic value of MR arthrography in detection of intrinsic carpal ligament lesions: use of cine-MR arthrography as a new approach. Twenty-five patients with chronic wrist pain and a preliminary diagnosis of carpal instability were examined with conventional MR imaging and MR arthrography with single compartment intra-articular injection. A new cine-MR arthrography technique, with image acquisition at every 5 s during intra-articular injection, was performed in 17 subjects. The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic value of MR arthrography in ligamentous lesions of the wrist and to assess the value of cine-MR arthrography in comparison with arthroscopy and/or surgery. Magnetic resonance arthrography, a semi-invasive technique, increased the diagnostic accuracy of intrinsic carpal ligament injuries. Cine-MR arthrography can be considered as a promising technique especially for the evaluation of lunatotriquetral and scapholunate ligament injuries of the wrist."}
{"id": "9330136", "title": "Kinematics of the scaphoid shift test.", "content": "Kinematics of the scaphoid shift test. Twenty-five uninjured subjects (50 wrists) were examined clinically and fluoroscopically during performance of the scaphoid shift test. Wrists were placed into 3 groups on the basis of the degree of palpable carpal motion that occurred during the clinical examination. Kinematic parameters of rotation and displacement were calculated from digitized images of the carpals at rest and at maximum displacement. On clinical exam, 36% of normal individuals had positive findings on scaphoid shift test. Dorsal displacement of the scaphoid was not significantly associated with positive scaphoid shift test results in these subjects, while total displacement of the scaphoid (the sum of axial and dorsal displacement) was significantly associated with positive test results. The principle confounding factor appeared to be a high degree of displacement that occurred at the capitolunate joint in some individuals, termed a \"midcarpal shift.\" The data demonstrate that despite a high prevalence of positive scaphoid shifts among uninjured individuals, the ability to accurately detect dorsal displacement of the scaphoid using the scaphoid shift test is limited. On the basis of their findings, the authors recommend that positive test results be confirmed fluoroscopically."}
{"id": "9330135", "title": "Radiographic evaluation of osseous displacement following intra-articular fractures of the distal radius: reliability of plain radiography versus computed tomography.", "content": "Radiographic evaluation of osseous displacement following intra-articular fractures of the distal radius: reliability of plain radiography versus computed tomography. This study evaluated the reliability of plain radiography versus computed tomography (CT) for the measurement of small (< 5 mm) intra-articular displacements of distal radius fracture fragments. The plain radiographs and CT scans of 19 acute intra-articular distal radius fractures were used by 5 independent observers, using 2 standardized techniques, to quantify incongruity of the articular surface in a blinded and randomized fashion. Repeat measurements were performed by the same observers 2-4 weeks later, allowing determination of intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) as a measure of intraobserver and interobserver agreement. The average maximum gap displacement on plain radiographs was 2.1 mm (range, 0.0-15.0 mm, lateral view) and on CT images was 4.9 mm (range, 0.7-17.3 mm, axial view). The average maximum step displacement on plain radiographs was 0.9 mm (range, 0.0-6.4 mm, lateral view) and on CT images was 1.2 mm (range, 0.0-6.0 mm, sagittal view). More reproducible values determining step and gap displacement were obtained when the arc method of measurement was used on CT scans (ICC values, .69-.97) as compared to the longitudinal axis method for plain radiographs (ICC values, .30-.50). For measured displacements of 2 mm or more, our data demonstrated poor correlation between measurements made on CT images and those made on plain radiographs (gap or step displacement > 2 mm, K = 0.21; step displacement > 2 mm, K = 0.21). Thirty percent of measurements from plain radiographs significantly underestimated or overestimated displacement compared to CT scan measurements. From these data, we conclude that CT scanning data, using the arc method of measurement, are more reliable for quantifying articular surface incongruities of the distal radius than are plain radiography measurements."}
{"id": "9322203", "title": "Simultaneous carpometacarpal and metacarpophalangeal joint dislocations.", "content": "Simultaneous carpometacarpal and metacarpophalangeal joint dislocations."}
{"id": "9314391", "title": "Displaced intra-articular fractures of the distal aspect of the radius. Long-term results in young adults after open reduction and internal fixation.", "content": "Displaced intra-articular fractures of the distal aspect of the radius. Long-term results in young adults after open reduction and internal fixation. The purpose of this retrospective study was to determine the long-term functional and radiographic outcomes in a series of young adults (less than forty-five years old) in whom an acute displaced intra-articular fracture of the distal aspect of the radius had been treated with operative reduction and stabilization. Twenty-six fractures in twenty-six patients met the initial inclusion criteria for the study. Twenty-one patients returned for a physical examination, imaging (plain radiographs and computerized tomography scans), and completion of a validated musculoskeletal function assessment questionnaire at a minimum of 5.5 years. The physical examinations were performed by the same observer, who was not involved in the initial care of the patients. The plain radiographs and computerized tomography scans were assessed in a blinded fashion by two independent observers who measured the radiographic parameters with standardized methods. At an average of 7.1 years, osteoarthrosis of the radiocarpal joint was evident on the plain radiographs and computerized tomography scans of sixteen (76 per cent) of the twenty-one wrists. A strong association was found between the development of osteoarthrosis of the radiocarpal joint and residual displacement of articular fragments at the time of osseous union (p < 0.01). However, the functional status at the time of the most recent follow-up, as determined by physical examination and on the basis of the responses on the questionnaire, did not correlate with the magnitude of the residual step and gap displacement at the time of fracture-healing. All patients had a good or excellent functional outcome irrespective of radiographic evidence of osteoarthrosis of the radiocarpal or the distal radio-ulnar joint or non-union of the ulnar styloid process. It appears prudent therefore to base the indications for salvage operative procedures on the presence of severe symptoms or a loss of function rather than on radiographic evidence of osteoarthrosis of the radiocarpal joint."}
{"id": "9283841", "title": "Trauma of the wrist.", "content": "Trauma of the wrist. In wrist injury, plain radiographs form the basis of diagnostic imaging, and can provide definitive answers in most cases. MR imaging is the method of choice for several diagnostic problem cases. These problems can include radiographically occult fractures where MRI enables early diagnosis compared to follow-up radiographs. Early stage diagnosis of a post-traumatic avascular osteonecrosis with high sensitivity and specificity, is only possible with MRI. In these instances, radiographs are only sensitive in later stages and scintigraphy is quite nonspecific. Stress fractures, invisible with other modalities, are also demonstrable with MRI. In addition, MRI is helpful in special circumstances with regard to non-union or pseudarthrosis. In wrist instability, radiographs in combination with stress views and fluoroscopy are still the initial diagnostic step. MRI, with the advantage of direct visualization of the wrist ligaments and triangular fibrocartilage complex, offers very promising results in this area. Generally, for the evaluation of wrist injury, MRI can be considered the most important second-step procedure in patients where radiographs are nondiagnostic."}
{"id": "9283837", "title": "Imaging and staging of avascular osteonecroses at the wrist and hand.", "content": "Imaging and staging of avascular osteonecroses at the wrist and hand. Avascular ostenecroses (AVN) are unspecific focal sceletal lesions of vascular origin. At the wrist, AVNs are mainly seen in the lunate (Kienbock's disease) and the proximal scaphoid fragment in the presence of a nonunion disease (pseudarthrosis). Other types of osteonecroses are rare. The natural process of devitalization proceeds in steps: initially, there is a bone marrow oedema, followed by trabecula sclerosis, cystic transformation of the spongiosa, and bone fragmentation. End stages include carpal collapse (SLAC wrist) and osteoarthritis. For imaging of the sceletal morphology in AVN computed tomography is most useful, whereas initial stages and perfusion damages are better detected with contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In this paper a staging classification for Kienb\u00f6ck's disease and the scaphoid nonunion, considering the diagnostic and therapeutic consequences, is presented."}
{"id": "9259534", "title": "To report or not?", "content": "To report or not?"}
{"id": "9232498", "title": "Navicular body fractures: computerized tomography findings and mechanism of injury.", "content": "Navicular body fractures: computerized tomography findings and mechanism of injury. The case reports of five patients with signs and symptoms of a fracture of the tarsal navicular body are presented. Each patient underwent a computerized tomography examination to determine the extent of this fracture. Based on the computerized tomography findings, surgical or conservative management was carried out. The computerized tomography examination, combined with the patient's history, has shed new light on a previously undescribed mechanism of injury for this fracture."}
{"id": "9231180", "title": "[Conservative treatment of stress fractures of the tarsal navicular in athletes].", "content": "[Conservative treatment of stress fractures of the tarsal navicular in athletes]. The purpose of the study was to propose an algorhythm for nonoperative treatment of partial tarsal navicular stress fractures in athletes, based on the results of the authors prospective research, conducted in 17 athletes. The series included 17 patients with 18 partial tarsal navicular stress fractures (9 women and 8 men), average age 20.1 years. Patients were 10 track and field athletes mainly sprinters, 3 basketball players, two handball players, one soccer player and one volleyball player. After undergoing detailed physical examination which included x-ray examination, all patients also underwent bone scanning, and some kind of tomographic imaging (CT, MR) was done in all patients. Since all patients suffered from partial tarsal navicular stress fracture (fracture spreaded saggitally to maximal dorsal half of the bone) nonoperative treatment was conducted. Immobilization in a non weight bearing short-leg cast for a period of 6-8 weeks was followed by rehabilitation treatment consisting of 4 consecutive stages, each lasting 2 weeks. Control examination after each stage determined if patients could proceed to the following stage or if they should remain in the same stage for another two weeks. Patients were followed up from one to five years (average 33.9 months) and proposed algorhythm of nonoperative treatment resulted in all, except two athletes, returning to their previous level of competition activity. The average time period between initiation of treatment and resumption of full sports activity was 24 weeks (range 17 to 32 weeks). One stress fracture recurrence was encountered although all patients returned to sports activities and are constantly being monitored. No complex tarsal navicular stress fractures was found in our series. In our opinion the diminishing number of complete fractures is a consequence if quicker and more precise diagnosis. The period between the onset of symptoms and the time of correct diagnosis is becoming shorter. In our patients, this period was 3.3 months. The nonoperative treatment for tarsal navicular stress fractures was suggested with a wide variety of procedures. Based on the results if their prospective study the authors propose an algorhythm of conservative procedures in the treatment of partial tarsal navicular stress fracture. If clinical indication of tarsal navicular stress fracture is confirmed by a positive bone-scan, a CT or MRI exploration is required to distinguish stress reaction from stress fracture. In partial tarsal navicular stress fractures, immobilisation in a short-leg cast with nonweightbearing for 6 to 8 weeks depending of the magnitude of the fracture is required. This is followed by a treatment consisting of 4 two-weeks stages which clinically monitored. The previous phase can be repeated for another two weeks, depending of clinical findings. This algorhythm of nonoperative treatment of partial tarsal navicular stress fractures allowed in all athletes a return to competitive activity."}
{"id": "9222933", "title": "Radial artery injury in association with fractures of the trapezium.", "content": "Radial artery injury in association with fractures of the trapezium. Three cases of trapezial fractures in which the radial artery was injured are reported. The injuries occurred during the initial trauma in one, when internal fixation was done in the second, and during hardware removal in the third. Six cadaveric wrists were dissected to study the relationship between the course of the artery and the trapezium."}
{"id": "9216753", "title": "Suspected scaphoid fractures in skeletally immature patients: application of MRI.", "content": "Suspected scaphoid fractures in skeletally immature patients: application of MRI. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the MR findings in the wrists of pediatric patients who have sustained acute wrist injuries and to determine if this imaging method yields more information than combined serial radiographs and physical examinations. Eighteen skeletally immature patients (11 boys and 7 girls, age range 8-15 years) who had presented to the emergency room within 2 days following acute wrist trauma underwent serial clinical, radiographic, and MR examinations if there was a suspicion of a scaphoid fracture. Ten patients had a scaphoid abnormality on MR images. Six had fractures and four had regional bone marrow edema. Initially, all but two fractures were radiographically occult, although the other fractures eventually became evident on later studies. Those with marrow edema did not progress to fractures. Obliteration of the scaphoid fat stripe occurred in five patients with a scaphoid fracture and in six patients who did not have a fracture. Dorsal soft tissue swelling occurred in eight patients, five of whom had scaphoid fractures. Seven patients had evidence of extensor tenosynovitis on MRI. A normal initial MR image had a negative predictive value of 100%. Persistent snuffbox pain may represent injury to the scaphoid, extensor tendons, or dorsal soft tissues. An outcome study evaluating the benefits of early application of MR in the pediatric population is warranted."}
{"id": "9196618", "title": "The diagnostic management of suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "The diagnostic management of suspected scaphoid fracture. The role of radiography and bone scintigraphy in the diagnostic management of patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture after carpal injury is reviewed. Evidence is provided that bone scintigraphy is indicated in patients with negative initial scaphoid radiographs. A normal bone scan excludes scaphoid fracture, and a positive bone scan sufficiently confirms the presence of clinically relevant scaphoid fracture. Furthermore, this review assesses the possibility on non-invasive additional radiographs, for the diagnosis or exclusion on scaphoid fracture as a means of avoiding bone scintigraphy in patients with negative first-day X-series."}
{"id": "9181223", "title": "Anomalous nerve anatomy at the wrist?", "content": "Anomalous nerve anatomy at the wrist? The common course of the ulnar and median nerve in the carpal tunnel has been described previously on two occasions. The aim of the study was to explain the cause of two main nerve trunks in the carpal tunnel found at an operation. A patient was treated with open reduction and internal fixation for a volar Barton's fracture of the distal radius. Later, compression syndrome of the ulnar and median nerves developed. At operation, two nerves were found in the carpal tunnel. Electroneuromyography (ENMG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed a divided median nerve. No anomaly of the ulnar nerve was confirmed. Deviation from the common clinical and ENMG picture of the carpal tunnel syndrome should result in thorough evaluation of possible anomalous nerve anatomy at the wrist. When at operation findings are suspicious of anomalous anatomy of the median or ulnar nerves in the carpal tunnel, Guyon's canal should also be explored to clarify the anatomy of the nerves. In cases with previous carpal collapse or other space occupying lesions we recommend division of the whole transverse carpal ligament in connection with a volar osteosynthesis, because the operative trauma may cause elevation of pressure in both the carpal and Guyon's canals."}
{"id": "9171786", "title": "Pictorial review: magnetic resonance imaging of acute orthopaedic trauma to the upper extremity.", "content": "Pictorial review: magnetic resonance imaging of acute orthopaedic trauma to the upper extremity."}
{"id": "9167668", "title": "MR imaging of injuries to the small joints.", "content": "MR imaging of injuries to the small joints. This article describes MR imaging of acute and chronic injuries of the ankle and foot, elbow, and hand and wrist. Conditions discussed include ligament and tendon injuries, fractures and bone bruises, osteochondral defects, foreign bodies, and posttraumatic ganglions. Other topics covered include fasciitis, nerve and muscle injuries about the elbow, and triangular fibrocartilage tears."}
{"id": "9149977", "title": "Registration bone scan in the evaluation of wrist pain.", "content": "Registration bone scan in the evaluation of wrist pain. We assessed the value of bone scintigraphy combined with X-ray registration for the diagnosis and management of wrist pain in 65 patients. Studies were reported independently by two observers before and after registration. Registration improved localization of scan abnormalities in 53% (observer 1) and 61% (observer 2). In these patients, the bone scan contributed to the diagnosis independently of the X-ray in 37% and the management was altered in 31%. The value of the bone scan in the early diagnosis and management of wrist pain is increased when it is registered with X-rays."}
{"id": "9143996", "title": "Advanced imaging in orthopaedics: current pitfalls and new applications.", "content": "Advanced imaging in orthopaedics: current pitfalls and new applications."}
{"id": "9131939", "title": "[Fractures of the wrist with cartilage rupture in young adults. Apropos of 18 cases].", "content": "[Fractures of the wrist with cartilage rupture in young adults. Apropos of 18 cases]. Distal radius impaction fractures are not rare. They present a dual problem for the surgeon: the difficulty of establishing the exact pathological anatomy of the fracture, and of obtaining stable anatomic reduction. The authors report their experience of 18 distal radius impaction fractures in young patients after violent trauma (motor vehicle accident). We subdivided these fractures using Kapandji and M\u00fcller's classifications: 12 type 9 or C3, 4 type 5 or B1 and 2 type 4 or C1. The mean depth of impaction of the scaphoid fossa or lunate fossa (\"die punch fracture\"), or centrally was measured at 5 mm on preop X-rays or on CT scan. After radiographs of the wrist in traction under anaesthesia, open reduction was performed in 14 cases (78%). A volar approach with plate fixation was performed in 3 cases. A dorsal approach with internal fixation with k-wires and an external fixator was performed in the other 11 cases. A bone graft was necessary in 10 cases when the bone defect was significant. The four remaining patients were treated with percutaneous k-wires and external fixation. We reviewed these 18 patients after a mean follow-up of 27 months. The mean age at the time of the accident was 37 years. The results were graded on the Green and O'Brien scale. Results were excellent in 1 case, good in 11 cases, fair in 5 cases, and poor in 1 case. We believe that impaction fractures always require open reduction with or without the addition of bone graft depending on the degree of the impaction. This is because of the risk of arthritic degeneration with this kind of fracture, with articular incongruence (more than 2 mm), and with chondral injuries on the radial or the carpal aspect of the wrist joint. Also, when there is a distal radio-ulnar joint injury (D.R.U.J. dislocation or distal head ulna fracture), the joint must always be stabilized to avoid secondary displacement."}
{"id": "9129428", "title": "MR imaging of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "MR imaging of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of MR imaging in revealing occult fractures in patients with clinically suspected acute scaphoid fractures who have normal or equivocal findings on radiographs. Thirty-six patients underwent MR imaging within 7 days of wrist injury. All had physical findings suggestive of scaphoid fracture. Coronal T1-weighted, short inversion time inversion recovery, and either T2-weighted or proton density-weighted fast spin-echo sequences with fat suppression were used. Follow-up radiographs were obtained at least 2 weeks after MR imaging whenever possible. All imaging studies were reviewed by two musculoskeletal radiologists. MR imaging revealed 22 occult fractures in 20 patients. Thirteen of these 22 fractures were in the scaphoid bone, and nine were in the distal radius. On MR images, 16 patients had no evidence of fracture. Follow-up radiographs were available in 14 of the 20 patients who had occult fracture revealed by MR imaging. Eleven of the 13 occult fractures of the scaphoid bone were followed up (two were lost to follow-up), and 10 of the 11 showed signs of healing. Five of the nine lesions of the distal radius were followed up, and three of these showed evidence of healing fracture. Three patients without MR evidence of a fracture had follow-up radiographs that showed no fracture. Three patients had findings consistent with bone contusion on MR images; in two patients, the contusion was associated with other fractures, and in one patient, the contusion was isolated. MR imaging can reveal occult wrist fractures when findings on radiographs are normal or equivocal."}
{"id": "9122402", "title": "Radiographically occult scaphoid fractures: value of MR imaging in detection.", "content": "Radiographically occult scaphoid fractures: value of MR imaging in detection. To evaluate the diagnostic value of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in patients with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fractures and normal initial plain radiographs. MR imaging was performed within 7 days after trauma in 42 patients with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fractures and normal plain radiographs. T1-weighted spin-echo, T2*-weighted gradient-echo, and short inversion time inversion-recovery (STIR) sequences were performed. MR images were evaluated independently by two radiologists. Six-week follow-up radiographs were used as a standard to diagnose fractures. MR imaging depicted occult fractures of the scaphoid bone in 14 patients (33%), the capitate bone in four (10%), the trapezium in one (2%), and the distal radius in two (5%). All wrist fractures were detected with a combination of STIR and T1-weighted spin-echo sequences. The sensitivity and specificity for detection of radiographically occult fractures of the wrist were 100% each for the first and 95% and 100%, respectively, for the second radiologist with an almost perfect interobserver agreement (K = 0.953). MR imaging has a high sensitivity for detection of fractures of the scaphoid bone and wrist not evident on plain radiographs and may enable early diagnosis and treatment."}
{"id": "9117529", "title": "Stress fracture of the ulnar diaphysis in a recreational golfer.", "content": "Stress fracture of the ulnar diaphysis in a recreational golfer. To report a very rare presentation of a stress fracture in a golfer: a stress fracture of the ulnar diaphysis. A 44-year-old woman had a 4-week history of a sore left wrist. She had been playing golf daily and had had no sudden trauma. Extensor tendinitis was suspected. Symptomatic treatment was given. Radiographs showed a spiculated periosteal reaction of the distal ulnar diaphysis with no signs of fracture or bone destruction. The suggestion of a malignant lesion was raised. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a healing ulnar fracture and edema of the interosseous membrane. In golfers, stress fractures may be seen in ribs laterally and in tibias. We believe supination together with overuse of the hand flexor muscles caused the stress fracture presented, which has not previously been reported in golfers. Physicians should be aware of the potential for ulnar stress fracture in golfers with wrist pain."}
{"id": "9075627", "title": "Associations of early premenopausal fractures with subsequent fractures vary by sites and mechanisms of fractures.", "content": "Associations of early premenopausal fractures with subsequent fractures vary by sites and mechanisms of fractures. In a retrospective population-based study we assessed whether and how self-reported former fractures sustained at the ages of 20-34 are associated with subsequent fractures sustained at the ages of 35-57. The 12,162 women who responded to fracture questions of the baseline postal enquiry (in 1989) of the Kuopio Osteoporosis Study, Finland formed the study population. They reported 589 former and 2092 subsequent fractures. The hazard ratio (HR), with 95% confidence interval (CI), of a subsequent fracture was 1.9 (1.6-2.3) in women with the history of a former fracture compared with women without such a history. A former low-energy wrist fracture was related to subsequent low-energy wrist [HR = 3.7 (2.0-6.8)] and high-energy nonwrist [HR = 2.4 (1.3-4.4)] fractures, whereas former high-energy nonwrist fractures were related only to subsequent high-energy nonwrist [HR = 2.8 (1.9-4.1)] but not to low-energy wrist [HR = 0.7 (0.3-1.8)] fractures. The analysis of bone mineral density (BMD) data of a subsample of premenopausal women who underwent dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) during 1989-91 revealed that those with a wrist fracture due to a fall on the same level at the age of 20-34 recorded 6.5% lower spinal (P = 0.140) and 10.5% lower femoral (P = 0.026) BMD than nonfractured women, whereas the corresponding differences for women with a former nonwrist fracture due to high-energy trauma were -1.8% (P = 0.721) and -2.4% (P = 0. 616), respectively. Our results suggest that an early premenopausal, low-energy wrist fracture is an indicator of low peak BMD which predisposes to subsequent fractures in general, whereas early high-energy fractures are mainly indicators of other and more specific extraskeletal factors which mainly predispose to same types of subsequent fractures only."}
{"id": "9057534", "title": "Scaphoid bone waist fractures, acute and chronic: imaging with different techniques.", "content": "Scaphoid bone waist fractures, acute and chronic: imaging with different techniques."}
{"id": "9055127", "title": "The value of additional carpal box radiographs in suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "The value of additional carpal box radiographs in suspected scaphoid fracture. Carpal Box (CB) radiographs, transverse and longitudinal, produce elongated and magnified views of the carpus. These radiographs can be used after carpal injury, in addition to conventional scaphoid x-rays. In this study, the use of CB radiographs was evaluated in patients with possible scaphoid fracture. Seventy-one consecutive patients who presented at the First Aid department from May 1994 to May 1995 were included. All patients were examined for scaphoid fracture after a fall on the out-stretched hand. If a scaphoid fracture was seen on the scaphoid x-rays, patients were immobilized. If the x-rays remained negative or dubious for fracture, additional transverse and longitudinal CB radiographs were obtained. If CB radiographs remained negative or inconclusive, patients were referred for three-phase bone scintigraphy. The results of independent and masked judgment by three different observers were used for an inter- and intraobserver analysis. Twenty of 71 patients initially showed a scaphoid fracture on the conventional scaphoid x-rays, 41 were negative, and 10 inconclusive. All 41 negative patients remained negative on CB radiograph; however, the bone scintigraphy was positive for scaphoid fracture in 11 patients and in 9 patients a hot spot elsewhere in the carpus was found. Of the 10 patients with inconclusive x-rays, 2 showed a clear fracture of the scaphoid on CB radiograph, 5 were negative, and 3 remained inconclusive. The agreement between observers, calculated in kappa values, was highest in CB radiographs. In the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture, Carpal Box radiography is of limited value in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture. In two of 10 patients with initial dubious scaphoid x-ray, bone scintigraphy can be avoided. Furthermore, the reliability of the interpretation of the radiographs is increased by additional Carpal Box radiography."}
{"id": "9042876", "title": "Experimental evaluation of scaphoid X-series, carpal box radiographs, planar tomography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Experimental evaluation of scaphoid X-series, carpal box radiographs, planar tomography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. In this study, we evaluated scaphoid X-series, Carpal Box radiographs (longitudinal and transverse), planar tomography, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. The aim of this study was to evaluate the planar technique in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. The use of planar tomography, CT, and MRI was to see whether these methods are useful in the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture when other diagnostics modalities remains negative. Twenty-eight embalmed human cadaver specimens were used, in 23 of which fractures of the scaphoid were produced mechanically. Scaphoid X-series, Carpal Box posterior-anterior radiographs in ulnar deviation (X-CB), Carpal Box posterior-anterior views with the hand in 15-degree supination and ulnar deviation (X-CB 15-degree) were acted in all specimens, CT in eight wrists, planar tomography in seven wrists, and MRI in five wrists. The anatomic analysis of the specimens was used as the gold standard for comparison. Scaphoid X-series, Carpal Box radiographs, and planar tomography were judged independently and in a blind fashion by six observers, and CT and MRI were also judged independently and in a blind fashion by three radiologists. The observers were asked if they could recognize a scaphoid fracture. The agreement among the six observers for the scaphoid X-series and X-CB was measured. In the 23 fractured wrists, scaphoid X-series, X-CB, X-CB 15-degree, was true positive in 12, 14, and 15 wrists, respectively, whereas these methods were true negative in cadaver wrists 1, 3, and 5. CT was true positive in five of five fractured wrists and true negative in three of three negative wrists. Planar tomography was true positive in one of four fractured wrists and true negative in two of three nonfractured wrists. MRI was obtained in five wrists (one without a fracture), of which the fracture was recognized in only two. The highest agreement between observers was found in the X-CB 15-degree. From the planar investigated methods, the 15-degree Carpal Box posterior-anterior, longitudinal and transverse views were most accurate in recognizing scaphoid fracture with also the highest agreement between the observers."}
{"id": "10832481", "title": "Congenital megalourethra.", "content": "Congenital megalourethra. Megalourethra, a rare congenital disorder involving the anterior urethra, is subdivided into two types: Fusiform and scaphoid. Two cases of scaphoid type megalourethra are reported. The first patient, a 5-weeks-old infant diagnosed at birth as having the prune belly syndrome was admitted to the hospital with vomiting and failure to thrive. Intravenous pyelogram revealed marked dilatation of the left ureter and a bladder diverticulum. A penile urethrostomy was performed. The second patient, born to healthy parents after an uneventful pregnancy and delivery, was found to have an enlarged and deformed penis. The baby voided with a poor stream and a concomitant swelling of the penis was noted. Retrograde uretrography showed a sac-like dilatation of the penile urethra. Surgical revision was carried out a 2 stage procedure and was completed (Nesbitt's operation) after 4 months. The patient did well postoperatively and voided with a normal stream without any abnormality of the penile shaft."}
{"id": "9129279", "title": "Imaging scaphoid fractures and nonunions: familiar methods and newer trends.", "content": "Imaging scaphoid fractures and nonunions: familiar methods and newer trends."}
{"id": "9026486", "title": "[Ulnodorsal impingement syndrome: meniscus lesions of the wrist].", "content": "[Ulnodorsal impingement syndrome: meniscus lesions of the wrist]. In a consecutive series of 166 wrist arthroscopies, a lesion of the meniscus was found in 16 patients. All of them complained of ulnar wrist pain evoked by axial load in extension. 14 patients had previous wrist trauma. The preoperative physical examination showed marked ulnodorsal tenderness on palpation and the examiner could feel crepitation by passive motion in the radial-ulnar direction. The meniscus represents a part of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC). At this time it is not possible by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to differentiate between articular disc and meniscus lesion. In contrast the two structures are clearly identifiable by arthroscopy especially if there is a radial tear through the meniscus or even a complete avulsion from its insertion on the palmar aspect of the triquetrum. The avulsed part of the meniscus can prolapse into the ulnocarpal joint, causing an impingement phenomenon."}
{"id": "8982925", "title": "Scaphoid osteochondroma mimicking carpal coalition.", "content": "Scaphoid osteochondroma mimicking carpal coalition. We present the case of a 10-year-old girl who presented with a block to wrist abduction. Plain radiographs of the wrist suggested a coalition between the carpal bones. A CT scan, however, revealed the presence of an osteocartilaginous lesion on the distal pole of the scaphoid. This was resected and histology showed it to be an osteochondroma."}
{"id": "8970137", "title": "Wrist pain in a young gymnast: unusual radiographic findings and MRI evidence of growth plate injury.", "content": "Wrist pain in a young gymnast: unusual radiographic findings and MRI evidence of growth plate injury. A 10-yr-old gymnast, training well below the elite level, reported a 3-wk history of bilateral dorsal wrist pain. Physical examination and radiographic findings were consistent with stress injury to the distal radial growth plates. The patient's radiographs also displayed rare findings including cleft radial and ulnar epiphyses, as well as epiphyseal spur formation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated evidence of metaphyseal and epiphyseal ischemia of the growth plate. The patient responded well to conservative treatment, including ice, splinting, and activity modification. This case illustrates several potentially confusing radiographic abnormalities and the emerging role of MRI in evaluating wrist pain in young gymnasts."}
{"id": "8950387", "title": "Traumatic type B aortic dissection.", "content": "Traumatic type B aortic dissection. A 37-year-old man was referred with thoracic pain after a deceleration trauma. He also had a cerebral contusion and a wrist fracture. There were no sings of hypovolemic shock. Computerized tomography (CT) of the chest and transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE) demonstrated a type B aortic dissection originating just distal to the left subclavian artery. There was a patent false lumen without rupture or distal ischaemia. Conservative treatment was given. A paralytic ileus developed and abdominal complaints persisted for several months. Angiography showed normal patency of mesenteric vessels. On follow-up, 3 years after the accident a slight aortic dilation was found on CT thorax without development of a post-dissection aneurysm. Blunt thoracic injury to the aorta usually gives rise to aortic rupture in the region of the isthmus, which can be complete or partial. In the latter case a false aneurysm may develop. An intimal tear after blunt trauma leading to type B aortic dissection rarely occurs. General principles regarding treatment of type B dissection also apply to this particular condition."}
{"id": "8924448", "title": "[Radiologic skeletal diagnosis: traumatology of the distal forearm, the wrists and the hand].", "content": "[Radiologic skeletal diagnosis: traumatology of the distal forearm, the wrists and the hand]. Plain X-ray films including some special radiographic views are still the basis of the radiological evaluation of injuries of the distal forearm, the wrist, and the hand. Especially in the diagnosis of fractures of the distal radius the exact positioning of the arm and hand is essential. For the description of fractures of the distal forearm the AO classification of fractures should be used, which is comprehensive and universally applicable. Conventional tomography and computed tomography (CT) of the radio-ulnar joint and the wrist are used in patients with persisting complaints or equivocal findings on plain radiographs, and difficult anatomical situations. Suspected ligamentous injuries of the wrist including tears of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) are evaluated by wrist arthrography or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the latter requiring a highly skilled imaging and interpretation technique. MRI is the method of choice for the detection of osteonecrosis. Ultrasound examination are of minor importance in the work up of wrist and hand injuries."}
{"id": "8885535", "title": "Fractures and nonunions of the scaphoid.", "content": "Fractures and nonunions of the scaphoid. Fractures of the scaphoid are the most common of all fractures of the carpal bones. Scaphoid collapse and angular deformity may develop after fractures. Scaphoid nonunion often complicates scaphoid fractures especially if the diagnosis is missed initially, and adequate timely treatment is not provided. Displaced unstable fractures also have a tendency to develop nonunion. The tenuous vascular anatomy of the scaphoid, the inherent biomechanical instability of scaphoid fractures, and the difficulty of radiographic diagnosis are the culprits of nonunion. Established scaphoid nonunion is a challenging and difficult problem to treat and more so is the treatment of failed nonunion after grafting. New methods of diagnosis and treatment of scaphoid injuries are constantly evolving. One common method of treating scaphoid nonunion with angular deformity is length restoration using a wedge bone graft and Herbert screw fixation through a palmar approach. Early diagnosis and attention to details of surgical technique are necessary for successful treatment outcome. The purpose of this report is to review the basic science, diagnosis, and treatment of scaphoid fractures and nonunions."}
{"id": "8860699", "title": "Wrist injuries: pitfalls in conventional imaging.", "content": "Wrist injuries: pitfalls in conventional imaging. The general principles of judging wrist injuries are discussed. Carefully made standard views will provide recognizable projections of carpal bones in order to judge abnormal positions. Additional views, conventional tomography and CT scans are, in some instances, necessary to diagnose fractures. For ligamentous damage resulting in carpal instability, fluoroscopy of the wrist and/or an arthrogram should be obtained. Examples of difficult pathology are shown and variations or more or less borderline pathology as coincidental findings are discussed. The main pitfalls are: wrong diagnosis made on inappropriately taken radiographs; misinterpretation of carpal bone relationships; and overestimation of some arthrographically found abnormalities."}
{"id": "8856542", "title": "Apparent and partial non-union of the scaphoid.", "content": "Apparent and partial non-union of the scaphoid. Ten patients with radiological non-union of the scaphoid and four patients with suspected non-union were explored surgically. At operation, ten scaphoids looked united; five of these went on to definite union but the other five to non-union (in one case, despite a Herbert screw). In another four patients, there appeared at operation to be partial union; all proceeded to complete union. Even with the scaphoid in front of you, it can be difficult to decide whether it has united or not."}
{"id": "8850152", "title": "Radiology of sports-related injuries.", "content": "Radiology of sports-related injuries. Participation in organized sports and fitness activity continues to increase in the United States. As a result, more acute bone and soft-tissue injuries are occurring in this patient population. Chronic overuse syndromes are also more common today. It is important for radiologists to understand the mechanism of injury so that they can properly approach the imaging of these patients. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is frequently the technique of choice, other imaging methods are also important and may, in certain cases, be preferred to MRI. In this review, we discuss extremity injuries by anatomic region. The spine is not included. A tailored imaging approach to each anatomic region and type of injury is discussed."}
{"id": "8785636", "title": "Clinically suspected scaphoid fracture: a comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and bone scintigraphy.", "content": "Clinically suspected scaphoid fracture: a comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and bone scintigraphy. 59 patients with clinical suspicion of scaphoid fracture, but negative radiographs at presentation and review, were examined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and bone scintigraphy (BS). The diagnoses were compared with subsequent follow-up. There were four scaphoid fractures, 10 other fractures and three significant ligamentous injuries. All scaphoid fractures were identified by MRI and BS. MRI showed better interobserver agreement for scaphoid injury than BS and fewer false positive reports. Significant ligamentous injury and carpal instability diagnosed by MRI were not evident on scintigraphy. Using fast scanning protocols, the cost of MRI is comparable with that of BS. MRI should be considered as the appropriate second line investigation in these clinical circumstances."}
{"id": "8778828", "title": "In vivo assessment of trabecular bone structure at the distal radius from high-resolution computed tomography images.", "content": "In vivo assessment of trabecular bone structure at the distal radius from high-resolution computed tomography images. A dedicated computed tomography system was used to acquire transaxial images of the distal radius to assess trabecular bone structure in vivo. We segmented trabecular bone from the marrow and soft tissue background by postprocessing the image with a region grow and skeletonization step. From the processed image we assessed the integrity of the bone by examining the continuity of its trabecular network and by determining the area of the holes comprising its marrow space. The continuity of the bone imaged was assessed by a proposed connectivity index (CI) and the size of the marrow spaces was assessed by calculating a mean hole area (H(A)) in the bone cross-section. Repeat measurements revealed that the intra-subject variability in CI and H(A) was small (CV < 6%). Both CI and H(A) were sensitive enough to reflect differences in structure at the head of the radius and at several sites along its shaft. We tested the diagnostic value of assessing bone structure at the distal end of the radius by measuring trabecular bone density, CI and H(A) in a mixed group of 26 subjects, nine of whom had suffered a wrist fracture. We found that a trabecular bone density threshold of 116 mg cm-3, corresponding to two standard deviations below the mean density in the 17 non-fractured subjects, separated fractured from non-fractured subjects with a sensitivity of 22% and a specificity of 100%. A CI threshold of -4.7 doubled the sensitivity (44%) and maintained the 100% specificity. An H(A) threshold of 4.5 mm2 achieved a sensitivity of 89% and a specificity of 94%. This increased sensitivity achieved by our indices suggests that an in vivo assessment of trabecular bone structure can contribute significantly to the identification of persons at risk of fracture."}
{"id": "8772662", "title": "Clinical pathological correlation: wrist pain.", "content": "Clinical pathological correlation: wrist pain."}
{"id": "8771471", "title": "Clinical assessment of scaphoid injuries and the detection of fractures.", "content": "Clinical assessment of scaphoid injuries and the detection of fractures. Difficulty in interpreting X-rays following carpal injury emphasizes the importance of clinical assessment in diagnosing scaphoid fractures. The classical sign of tenderness in the anatomical snuffbox is not specific and leads to many unnecessary out-patient reviews. A prospective comparison was made between anatomical snuffbox, scaphoid tubercle and scaphoid compression tenderness as indicators of scaphoid fracture in 221 patients with suspected scaphoid injury. Swelling was determined by measuring the difference in circumference at the wrist joint to compare between fracture and soft tissue injury. Scaphoid compression tenderness was found to be the most accurate test with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 80%. Swelling of the wrist joint was significantly greater when there was a fracture, compared to soft tissue injury alone, even when the initial X-ray was normal. This was independent of any physiological variation in circumference between dominant and non-dominant sides. Scaphoid compression tenderness is therefore suggested as the most accurate indicator of scaphoid fracture and marked swelling should raise suspicion even if the X-ray is normal."}
{"id": "8757898", "title": "[Healing of scaphoid fractures assessed by tomography. A follow-up study of treated patients].", "content": "[Healing of scaphoid fractures assessed by tomography. A follow-up study of treated patients]. Thirty-five of 40 patients who had sustained an undisplaced fracture of the waist of the scaphoid were reviewed clinically and radiographically (including tomography) at a median of 70 (13-120) weeks after injury. All fractures had been retained in a below elbow scaphoid plaster for a period of median eight (3-12) weeks. End of treatment was based on the absence of \"tenderness\" over the scaphoid and on radiographical signs of fracture union median ten (5-24) weeks after injury. At review 28 (80%) of the fractures were united based on standard radiographs and tomography. Four fractures ((11%) 95% confidence limits: 3-27%) were nonunions and three fractures (9%) were probably united. Tomography gave additional information about the state of union if the fracture was visible but unclassifiable on standard radiographs. Tenderness over the scaphoid was only found in the nonunions and probably united fractures. Radiographic and clinical evaluation of the fracture six months after injury is recommended."}
{"id": "8753688", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging versus bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging versus bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fracture. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become increasingly useful in the evaluation of musculoskeletal problems, including those of the wrist. In patients with a wrist injury, MRI is used mainly to assess vascularity of scaphoid non-union. However, the use of MRI in patients in the acute phase following carpal injury is not common. Three-phase bone scintigraphy is routinely performed from at least 72 h after injury in patients with suspected scaphoid fracture and negative initial radiographs. We evaluated MRI in this patient group. The bone scan was used as the reference method. Nineteen patients were included. Bone scintigraphy was performed in all 19 patients, but MRI could be obtained in only 16 (in three patients, MRI was stopped owing to claustrophobia). In five patients, MRI confirmed a scintigraphically suspected scaphoid fracture. In one patient, a perilunar luxation, without a fracture, was seen on MRI, while bone scintigraphy showed a hot spot in the region of the lunate bone, suspected for fracture. This was confirmed by surgery. In two patients, a hot spot in the scaphoid region was suspected for scaphoid fracture, and immobilization and employed for a period of 12 weeks. MRI was negative in both cases; in one of them a scaphoid fracture was retrospectively proven on the initial X-ray series. In another two patients, a hot spot in the region of MCP I was found with a negative MRI. In both, the therapy was adjusted. In the remaining six patients, both modalities were negative. We conclude that in the diagnostic management of patients with suspected scaphoid fracture and negative initial radiographs, the use of MRI may be promising, but is not superior to three-phase bone scintigraphy."}
{"id": "8733668", "title": "Scapholunate instability--a spectrum of pathology.", "content": "Scapholunate instability--a spectrum of pathology. Five cases of scapholunate instability are reported. The condition is commonly misdiagnosed in accident and emergency departments. The importance of a complete clinical assessment of the suspected scaphoid injury and the need to measure the scapholunate distance and the scapholunate angle on the radiographs is stressed."}
{"id": "8724473", "title": "Solitary osteochondroma of the scaphoid: a case report.", "content": "Solitary osteochondroma of the scaphoid: a case report."}
{"id": "8724472", "title": "Classification and treatment of ulnar styloid nonunion.", "content": "Classification and treatment of ulnar styloid nonunion. Symptomatic nonunion of the ulnar styloid is an uncommon problem that is usually best treated by simple excision of the ulnar styloid fragment. Two types of nonunion of the ulnar styloid are described here on an anatomic basis, and their treatment differs. Type 1 is defined as a nonunion associated with a stable distal radioulnar joint. Type 2 is defined as a nonunion associated with subluxation of the distal radioulnar joint. The postoperative follow-up period for the two types ranged from 4 months to 13 years, with a mean of 5 years 2 months. Eleven type 1 wrists were treated with excision of the fragment, and all patients had satisfactory relief of pain. Nine type 2 wrists required restoration of the anatomy of the traingular fibrocartilage complex. Three of these had large fragments that were treated by open reduction and internal fixation. All three patients were completely relieved of their discomfort. Six other patients underwent excision of the fragment and repair of the triangular fibrocartilage complex to the distal ulna. This group had four excellent, one good, and one fair result. If the distal radioulnar joint is stable on presentation or if its stability is restored, then long-term relief of pain from ulnar styloid nonunion is achieved by treatment of the nonunion."}
{"id": "8711552", "title": "Is there a place for radionuclide bone scintigraphy in the management of radiograph-negative scaphoid trauma?", "content": "Is there a place for radionuclide bone scintigraphy in the management of radiograph-negative scaphoid trauma? To evaluate the role of radionuclide bone scanning in patients with suspected scaphoid trauma, particularly in those with negative radiographs. Prospective. Radionuclide scans and carpal bone radiography were performed on all participants in the early post-injury period. Cape Town tertiary centre trauma unit. Fifty patients who presented with clinical features suggestive of scaphoid trauma. Definitive radiographic diagnosis of fracture or persistent clinical features of scaphoid trauma. All patients who had fractures demonstrated on standard radiography either at the initial visit (13 patients) or at 2 weeks (8 patients) had positive scintiscans (sensitivity 100%). Four of 6 patients who had a positive scan but negative first and second radiographs had persistent tenderness on clinical examination which required extended immobilisation in a plaster cast. The overall positive predictive value of scintigraphy was 93%. All patients with a negative scan were clinically and radiologically negative at 2 weeks (negative predictive value 100%). Evidence of multifocal injury was present in 12 scans, but only 1 radiograph. Thirty-one patients (62%) were scanned within 48 hours of injury. Bone scintigraphy can be used in radiograph-negative scaphoid area injury to exclude the need for further follow-up reliably, but those with positive scans still require clinical examination and radiography at 2 weeks."}
{"id": "8688242", "title": "Spatial resolution requirements in digital radiography of scaphoid fractures. An ROC analysis.", "content": "Spatial resolution requirements in digital radiography of scaphoid fractures. An ROC analysis. To investigate the spatial resolution requirements in digital radiography of scaphoid fractures. Included in the study were 60 scaphoid radiographs with and 60 without fractures of the scaphoid bone. The film-screen images were digitized using pixel sizes of 115, 170, and 340 microns along with 170 microns with a 10:1 wavelet compression. The digital images were displayed on a 1280 x 1024 x 8 bits monitor, and 5 observers evaluated the images in 5 randomized sessions. The results for each pixel size were then compared to the film-screen images by ROC analysis. The mean area under the ROC curves was larger for the film-screen images than for the digital images at all resolutions. However, this difference was not significant when the areas under the ROC curves for the film-screen images were compared to the digital images of 115, 170, and 170 microns with 10:1 compression. There was a significant difference for the 340-microns pixel size in favour of the film-screen images. The mean ROC curves for the digital images were very similar for the 115 and 170 microns pixel sizes, although slightly better for 115 microns. At 170 microns, the compression seemed to have a relatively small negative effect on the diagnostic performance; the deterioration was greater when the pixel size was increased to 340 microns. There was no obvious correlation between diagnostic performance and the experience of the observers in using work-stations. The pixel size of 170 microns is adequate for the detection of subtle fractures, even after wavelet compression by a ratio of 10:1."}
{"id": "8682815", "title": "Carpal Box radiography in suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Carpal Box radiography in suspected scaphoid fracture. We have assessed the value of using a simple apparatus,the Carpal Box, in patients with suspected scaphoid fracture, to produce elongated and magnified radiographs of the carpus. The interobserver agreement between 60 observers of standard scaphoid radiographs and longitudinal and transverse Carpal Box radiographs (X-CB) was compared in 11 patients. Three-phase bone scanning was used as a comparative standard. If at least 75% of the observers agreed and the result was confirmed by three-phase bone scanning, the outcome was termed reliable. Scaphoid radiographs and the longitudinal X-CB films were reliable in four patients and the transverse X-CB films in six patients. The bone scan suggested a scaphoid fracture in five of the 11 patients. Agreement in the interpretation of the standard scaphoid radiographs was acceptable in only 36% of patients: in interpretation of transverse Carpal Box radiographs this figure increased to 55%."}
{"id": "8676426", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of occult scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of occult scaphoid fractures. Occult fractures of the scaphoid bone occur frequently and may lead to nonunions. In a prospective blind study, we performed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations on 32 patients who had sustained a wrist injury and in whom a scaphoid fracture was clinically suspected, but could not be confirmed on the original set of two routine and four scaphoid view radiographs. The MRI examinations were performed an average time of 2.8 days after the trauma. This prospective study proved that MRI is able to diagnose occult scaphoid fractures without delay and without the use of radioactive diagnostic means. Sensitivity and specificity of MRI were 100%. This conventional method could save $7,200 (US) per 100,000 inhabitants in providing an immediate and correct diagnosis and avoiding unnecessary cast immobilization. Additional injuries that may be misdiagnosed by conventional radiographs are also detected with a specificity and sensitivity of 100%."}
{"id": "8673573", "title": "Determining the presence of scaphoid fracture with a day 4 bone scan.", "content": "Determining the presence of scaphoid fracture with a day 4 bone scan."}
{"id": "8641054", "title": "Operative treatment of intraarticular distal radial fractures.", "content": "Operative treatment of intraarticular distal radial fractures. Intraarticular fractures of the distal radius are difficult to treat successfully by traditional non-operative methods. The goal is to achieve a pain free functional wrist, and residual articular step offs of 2 mm or more will prevent such a result. Classification systems have evolved to reflect the preeminent consideration that must be given to the articular surface, and preoperative radiographic evaluation should usually include tomographic imaging to avoid a failure to recognize the fragment positions. A number of papers of the past decade have demonstrated that operative reduction of intraarticular fragments to reconstruct the articular surface and diminish step offs will give better clinical results, at least during the first several years of followup so far available. Attention to meticulous surgical technique will facilitate good results."}
{"id": "8623636", "title": "Avulsion fractures of the volar aspect of triquetral bone of the wrist: a subtle sign of carpal ligament injury.", "content": "Avulsion fractures of the volar aspect of triquetral bone of the wrist: a subtle sign of carpal ligament injury. We report five examples of a triquetral fracture pattern not previously described to our knowledge. These fractures from the volar aspect of the triquetral bone are important because they are easily missed with conventional wrist radiographs and yet are associated with significant ligament injuries and carpal instability. Five volar triquetral avulsion fractures occurred in young men (20-28 years old) during falls while playing sports. The initial evaluation consisted of a three-view radiographic series. Subsequently, an instability series was obtained in each case. Four patients were also evaluated by stress videofluoroscopy and arthrography, one by CT, and four by MR imaging. None of the five fractures was recognized on radiographs obtained in the emergency room. Each fracture was identified on an instability series and involved the radial aspect of the volar surface of the triquetral bone. All four wrists evaluated by stress videofluoroscopy showed lunatotriquetral joint instability. One also showed instability of the scapholunate joint. All four wrists evaluated by arthrography showed tears of the lunatotriquetral ligament and three had an associated tear of the scapholunate ligament. MR examination of four wrists showed a volar capsular ligament attached to the avulsion fracture fragment in each wrist. Two of the patients were treated by arthroscopic debridement and three were treated by prolonged splinting. All five patients had persistent pain and carpal instability of variable severity at least 1 year after injury. This avulsion fracture of the radial aspect of the volar triquetral bone is a subtle, easily missed sign of a significant injury of the perilunate ligaments. When this fracture is identified, we recommend further evaluation for associated ligament injury and carpal instability."}
{"id": "8617043", "title": "Detection of occult wrist fractures by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Detection of occult wrist fractures by magnetic resonance imaging. The early detection and management of wrist fractures may avert potential complications and patient morbidity. Five cases are described in which radiographically-occult fractures were clearly demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These fractures were seen on MRI as a low signal linear band on T1- and T2-weighted images, with surrounding increased signal intensity from bone marrow oedema on T2-weighted images. In one case, intense oedema obscured the fracture line on the initial MR scan. MRI is useful in confirming the presence of a fracture, delineating its exact shape and location, and in the follow-up of these injuries during and after treatment."}
{"id": "8553959", "title": "Direct coronal CT of the wrist: helical acquisition with simplified patient positioning.", "content": "Direct coronal CT of the wrist: helical acquisition with simplified patient positioning."}
{"id": "10163473", "title": "Volumetric data key to wrist evaluation.", "content": "Volumetric data key to wrist evaluation."}
{"id": "8770730", "title": "The issue of vascularity in fractures and non-union of the scaphoid.", "content": "The issue of vascularity in fractures and non-union of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "8583059", "title": "Computed tomography scanning.", "content": "Computed tomography scanning."}
{"id": "7799081", "title": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures: the role of nuclear medicine.", "content": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures: the role of nuclear medicine."}
{"id": "7799080", "title": "Choosing a strategy for the diagnostic management of suspected scaphoid fracture: a cost-effectiveness analysis.", "content": "Choosing a strategy for the diagnostic management of suspected scaphoid fracture: a cost-effectiveness analysis. To assess the cost-effectiveness of various strategies for the diagnostic management of clinically suspected scaphoid fracture, a decision-analytic model was built to evaluate three strategies and to compare them with a (clairvoyant) reference diagnostic management strategy. Evaluated strategies were: (A) repeated radiography up to 2 wk; (B) repeat radiography up to 6 wk; and (C) radiography, followed by bone scintigraphy in patients with negative initial radiographs. Therapy consisted of 12 wk of immobilization for a radiographically or scintigraphically proven fracture. Diagnostic costs, therapeutic costs, period of immobilization and nonunion rate were calculated for all three strategies. Estimates were derived from a descriptive management study using bone scintigraphy and available literature. Sensitivity analyses were performed. Overall costs were 273.7, 317.7 and 316.1 European Currency Units (ECU) for Strategies A, B and C, respectively (1 ECU = 1.15 U.S. dollar). Strategy B led to the longest average period of immobilization (8.6 wk), while Strategy A resulted in the highest nonunion rate (4.7%). The costs per nonunion saved for the additional use of bone scintigraphy (Strategy C) was ECU 2618 when compared to Strategy A. The use of bone scintigraphy in the diagnostic management of scaphoid fractures is accurate, convenient for patients and cost-effective."}
{"id": "7775760", "title": "Refracture of a proximal pole scaphoid fracture: a case report.", "content": "Refracture of a proximal pole scaphoid fracture: a case report."}
{"id": "7754021", "title": "Chronically stressed wrists in adolescent gymnasts: MR imaging appearance.", "content": "Chronically stressed wrists in adolescent gymnasts: MR imaging appearance. To investigate the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging appearance of a chronically stressed wrist and to assess the utility of MR imaging for evaluation of injuries to the growth plate. Coronal T1-weighted spin-echo and gradient-echo MR images were obtained of 93 wrists in 47 high-risk gymnasts of a Chinese opera school. MR imaging and radiographic findings were correlated in 93 wrists. The major MR imaging abnormalities of 47 radii with abnormal radiographic findings were horizontal fractures (n = 23), physeal cartilage extension to metaphysis (n = 17), and physeal widening (n = 17). The major MR abnormalities of 46 radii with normal radiographs included physeal cartilage extension (n = 12), metaphyseal bone bruise (n = 8), and vertical fractures (n = 4). Physeal cartilage extension into the metaphysis represents a healing sign in chronically stressed adolescent wrists. MR imaging findings including horizontal fracture and physeal cartilage extension to the metaphysis suggest that physeal widening occurred secondary to metaphyseal injury."}
{"id": "7747190", "title": "Distal radioulnar joint subluxation and dislocation diagnosed by standard roentgenography.", "content": "Distal radioulnar joint subluxation and dislocation diagnosed by standard roentgenography. The use of standard lateral roentgenography for diagnosing distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) subluxation and dislocation was investigated. Using a wrist support, bilateral standard lateral roentgenograms of the wrist were obtained in 42 patients with normal wrists and in 56 patients with a unilateral wrist injury. In normal wrists the difference between the radioulnar distance in the right and the left wrist did not exceed 4 mm when the difference in the pisoscaphoid distance was less than 3 mm. Of the 36 patients with wrist injury whose difference in pisoscaphoid distance was less than 3 mm, 15 had a radioulnar distance of 5 mm or more, and computed tomography (CT) confirmed DRUJ dislocation in 14. Concordance between lateral roentgenograms and CT was present in 33 of 36 patients (92%). These results demonstrate the value of a standardized technique for bilateral lateral roentgenography in diagnosing DRUJ subluxation and dislocation."}
{"id": "7742888", "title": "Clinical provocative tests used in evaluating wrist pain: a descriptive study.", "content": "Clinical provocative tests used in evaluating wrist pain: a descriptive study. The purposes of this clinical study were to standardize the method of examination and provocative testing of painful wrists and to compare retrospectively the results of these tests with the arthroscopic findings of three independent hand surgeons. This article operationally defines the scaphoid shift test (SST), the ballottement test (BALLOT), and the ulnomeniscotriquetral dorsal glide test (UMTDG); describes the clinical and arthroscopic examination method; and analyzes the sensitivities, specificities, and predictive values of these provocative tests relative to the arthroscopic findings in 50 painful wrists. Each patient had unspecified wrist pain of at least 4 weeks' duration and was examined by one certified hand therapist who carried out all of the clinical provocative tests. The sensitivities for the SST, the BALLOT, and the UMTDG were 69%, 64%, and 66%, respectively. The specificities for the SST, the BALLOT, and the UMTDG were 66%, 44%, and 64%, respectively. The positive predictive values for the SST, the BALLOT, and the UMTDG were 48%, 24%, and 58%, respectively. The negative predictive values for the SST, the BALLOT, and the UMTDG were 78%, 81%, and 69%, respectively. These wrist provocative tests were efficient for identifying patients who needed a more detailed diagnostic workup and possible arthroscopic inspection. Of those patients who needed arthroscopic inspection, the provocative tests proved to be more efficient at predicting the absence of injury than at predicting its presence."}
{"id": "7741471", "title": "[Sprains of the wrist: current data and therapeutic orientations].", "content": "[Sprains of the wrist: current data and therapeutic orientations]. Despite the high incidence of wrist trauma, severe sprains with disruption of the ligaments are actually rare, apart from lesions of the scapholunate joint line. However, the diagnosis of severity should now be established, if not as an emergency, at least soon after the trauma, as deterioration of carpal instability always leads top osteoarthritis after a variable interval of time. When a ligament lesion is suspected, initial pain-free immobilisation, plain and dynamic x-rays followed by at least arthrography of CT arthrography, should be performed. After describing scapholunate sprain, the commonest form, the other varieties are reviewed: pyramidolunate, midcarpal, scaphotrapezoid, radiocarpal and finally inferior radioulnar sprains."}
{"id": "7740296", "title": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of lesions of the triangular carpal ligament].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of lesions of the triangular carpal ligament]. The wrist is a complex anatomical joint which is frequently involved in daily activities and exposed to trauma and overuse. That is why chronic wrist pain syndrome can be somewhat difficult to assess and requires the use of several imaging modalities. Three-compartment arthrography is an invasive but well-known technique that can evaluate interosseous ligaments as well as the triangular fibrocartilage complex; however in recent years MRI has become an important diagnostic tool in imaging wrist injuries, particularly triangular fibrocartilage complex. Its overall accuracy in detecting triangular fibrocartilage complex tears varies from 80 to 95% according to several authors, and even if there is still some controversy about the imaging of the small interosseous ligaments, MRI can also depict some other associated lesions."}
{"id": "7717945", "title": "Injuries to the ulnar carpometacarpal region: are they being underdiagnosed?", "content": "Injuries to the ulnar carpometacarpal region: are they being underdiagnosed? Thirteen cases with radiographic evidence of injury to the ulnar side of the hand are reviewed. These injuries included intraarticular fractures and/or dislocations of the fourth and fifth carpometacarpal joints and associated bones collectively discussed here as the ulnar carpometacarpal region. In nine the extent of the injury was not appreciated on first presentation. Injuries to this region are often difficult to assess clinically and radiographically even in experienced hands. In our experience computerized tomography (CT) scans in the longitudinal and longitudinal oblique axis best display the ulnar carpometacarpal joint surfaces and their relationship to each other. We recommend CT of the ulnar carpometacarpal region where clinical evidence of an injury to this region is not in keeping with the plain radiographic findings, and when planning surgery on a complex injury in this region."}
{"id": "7676826", "title": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. A prospective multicenter study of 1,052 patients with 160 fractures.", "content": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. A prospective multicenter study of 1,052 patients with 160 fractures. In a prospective multicenter study of 1,052 patients with clinical signs of a scaphoid fracture, mammographic films and fine intensifying screens were used at the radiographic examination. 5 standardized projections including 3 special projections focused on the scaphoid were taken. 150 fractures were diagnosed at the first examination but in 10 cases the fracture was first diagnosed at a second radiographic examination after 10-14 days. The second examination still seems mandatory despite the use of high quality radiographs with optimal spatial resolution and contrast, and the value of supplementary special projections."}
{"id": "7672732", "title": "[Long-term outcome of Matti-Russe-plasty with special reference to late arthrotic damage of the wrist joint].", "content": "[Long-term outcome of Matti-Russe-plasty with special reference to late arthrotic damage of the wrist joint]. Corticocancellous grafting was considered the therapy of choice for treating scaphoid bone pseudarthrosis. However, there has been more criticism recently, since this method neither prevents nor stops arthrosis of the wrist in the long term. Ligamental damage with carpal instability often remains untreated. The malposition and shortening of the scaphoid bone also remains uncorrected. Fifty-five patients in who Matti-Russe reconstruction was carried out to treat schaphoid non-union were followed up. The inclusion criteria were that there had been no preoperative arthrosis and no previous operations. The mean period of observation was 10.7 years. The results of the clinical and radiological investigation were compared with the preoperative findings; in addition, there was a control group with untreated scaphoid non-union. It was shown that arthrosis is demonstrable in 69% of the operated patients; in the unoperated patients, this was the case in 95%. Carpal instability was present in 47.1% of the operated patients. However, it does not affect the development of arthrosis. The time interval between accident and operation is crucial for this. The results of this investigation indicate that scaphoid non-union should be treated as soon as possible even if it is asymptomatic."}
{"id": "7658240", "title": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures: the role of nuclear medicine.", "content": "Diagnosis of scaphoid fractures: the role of nuclear medicine."}
{"id": "7644940", "title": "Longitudinal computed tomography of the scaphoid: a new technique.", "content": "Longitudinal computed tomography of the scaphoid: a new technique. Computed tomography is increasingly utilized for the evaluation of scaphoid fracture, nonunion, and deformity. We have developed a new technique of positioning patients while performing longitudinal computed tomography of the scaphoid. With the wrist positioned in radial deviation and neutral flexion, greater patient comfort is provided and immobilization of the wrist is not required. A reproducible image can be obtained with attention to the alignment of the scanning plane to the longitudinal axis of the scaphoid on the scout image, and verified with the \"target sign\". High resolution images, which clearly demonstrate the abnormalities of the scaphoid, can be produced even if the patient has a cast on the wrist or if there is hardware in situ."}
{"id": "7632501", "title": "[An unusual variation of luxation of the wrist: external vertical luxation. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature].", "content": "[An unusual variation of luxation of the wrist: external vertical luxation. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature]. A case of lateral dislocation of the carpal scaphoid associated with a fracture of the triquetral and carpo-metacarpal dislocation of the ring and little finger is described. A thorough search of the literature failed to reveal any previous report of this combination of injuries. The dislocation was reduced by manipulation, but the scapholunate ligament required surgical repair. The results after two year was good."}
{"id": "7624564", "title": "MR imaging of the major carpal stabilizing ligaments: normal anatomy and clinical examples.", "content": "MR imaging of the major carpal stabilizing ligaments: normal anatomy and clinical examples. The integrity of the ligamentous network of the wrist is critical, as disruption of this network may result in carpal instability and pain. The extrinsic (radiocarpal) and intrinsic (intercarpal) ligaments that maintain carpal stability can be evaluated with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. The major extrinsic ligaments are the radioscaphocapitate, radiolunotriquetral, short radiolunate, and dorsal radiocarpal ligaments. The scapholunate and lunotriquetral ligaments are the most important intrinsic ligaments and the primary wrist stabilizers. The most common causes of carpal instability are unstable fracture of the scaphoid, scapholunate dissociation, and lunotriquetral dissociation. Carpal instability can be diagnosed from the sagittal MR image that includes the capitate, lunate, and radius and from the sagittal MR image that includes the scaphoid and radius. Knowledge of the MR imaging appearances of the major carpal stabilizing ligaments and common patterns of carpal instability allows more precise diagnosis in cases of wrist pain."}
{"id": "7595007", "title": "Clinical features of scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Clinical features of scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "7595002", "title": "Low field MRI and scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Low field MRI and scaphoid fracture. 18 consecutive patients suspected of and treated for an acute scaphoid fracture were examined by lowfield MRI. This showed 11 fractures while seven scaphoids were considered normal. T1 weighted images showed a fracture as an area of decreased signal intensity. Two radiologically obvious fractures produced normal MR images. These fractures proved to be the result of old trauma. A wide spectrum of additional traumatic lesions in the wrists, not detected by routine X-ray analysis, were also demonstrated. These included seven fragmented triangular fibrocartilages (TFC), torn scapho-lunate ligaments in four cases and one torn triquetro-lunate ligament. Bone bruises of other carpal bones and seven other carpal fractures were also detected. Low field MRI can be used to show scaphoid fractures and allows diagnosis of additional or simulating lesions."}
{"id": "7594282", "title": "Hamate fracture-dislocation: a case report.", "content": "Hamate fracture-dislocation: a case report."}
{"id": "7574124", "title": "Can a day 4 bone scan accurately determine the presence or absence of scaphoid fracture?", "content": "Can a day 4 bone scan accurately determine the presence or absence of scaphoid fracture? To evaluate the accuracy of day 4 bone scans in predicting the presence or absence of fracture in patients with \"clinical scaphoid fracture.\" Prospective sensitivity study of ED patients with clinical scaphoid fractures. Each patient was immobilized in a thumb spica cast and had day 4 bone scans of both wrists and hands. Blinded day 4 bone scan results were ultimately compared with the diagnosis on day 14 when patients returned for repeat clinical examination and radiographs. In cases of equivocal radiographic or clinical examination results, a day 14 bone scan was performed. Two tertiary care teaching hospital emergency departments. All ED patients older than 16 years with the diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture were eligible. Ninety-nine patients were enrolled and successfully completed the study protocol from October 1990 through November 1992. One patient had bilateral injury, for a total of 100 completed studies. Day 4 bone scans were 100% sensitive and 92% specific, for a positive predictive value of 65%, a negative predictive value of 100%, and accuracy of 93% (95% confidence interval, 88%, to 98%). Many other types of fractures were identified on the day 4 scans, including those of the triquetra, distal radius, capitate, hamate, trapezoid, trapezium, and metacarpals. Day 4 bone scans are an accurate means of ruling out scaphoid fracture. However, because of a significant number of false-positive scans at day 4, they do not reliably confirm the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture. The bone scans also permitted identification of several other wrist fractures that had not been radiographically apparent."}
{"id": "7566919", "title": "Stabilization of the fractured scaphoid under arthroscopic control.", "content": "Stabilization of the fractured scaphoid under arthroscopic control. All surgical procedures for the scaphoid are technically demanding. Nonunion, however, is associated with predictable adverse consequences, and union is predicated on effective fracture immobilization. The arthroscopically assisted approach to scaphoid fractures provides the combined advantages of internal fracture fixation and minimally invasive surgical technique (Fig. 5). Patients are receptive to the approach, and the new fixation device has proven to be extremely effective in the first 5 years of clinical usage."}
{"id": "7553023", "title": "Avascular necrosis of carpal bones.", "content": "Avascular necrosis of carpal bones. MR imaging is extremely well suited to detection of early phases of avascular necrosis, permitting diagnosis before collapse of the carpal bones has occurred. The sensitivity of this imaging modality allows differentiation of subtle changes in the bone marrow signal. This is used as criteria for a new stage classification of Kienb\u00f6ck's disease based on MR imaging appearance. The prognosis of scaphoid fractures and estimation of likelihood of avascular necrosis of the proximal fragment can be inferred by using gadolinium enhancement to evaluate the bone marrow vascularity."}
{"id": "7553020", "title": "MR imaging of normal and injured wrist ligaments.", "content": "MR imaging of normal and injured wrist ligaments. MR imaging is a rapidly evolving modality for examining the ligaments of the wrist. Recent improvements in magnet design and receiver coil technology have allowed consistent visualization of the wrist ligaments. Image quality can be optimized by selection of the proper receiver coil, careful attention to patient comfort and positioning, and selection of a dedicated imaging protocol. The carpal ligaments can be classified as capsular or interosseous ligaments, with the most important interosseous ligaments being the SLL and LTL as well as the triangular fibrocartilage. It is important for radiologists to understand the anatomy of the carpal ligaments in addition to the normal range of MR appearances as basis for comparison with torn or degenerated carpal ligaments."}
{"id": "7493788", "title": "The suspected scaphoid fracture and isotope bone imaging.", "content": "The suspected scaphoid fracture and isotope bone imaging. Carpal trauma often results in scaphoid injury. A small group of patients have clinical evidence of scaphoid fracture but radiographs fail to demonstrate bony damage. Persistent pain warrants isotope bone scanning. This report reviews the results of 36 consecutive bone scans performed for the suspected scaphoid injury and reviews radiographs taken on presentation. In all, 18 diagnosed fractures: there were three of the scaphoid, six of the distal radius and nine of other carpal bones. It was possible, with hindsight, to see eight fractures on the original radiographs. In patients with continued pain over the radial side of the carpus, attention should be given to the other carpal bones and the distal radius and not just the scaphoid."}
{"id": "8203322", "title": "Scapholunate dissociation.", "content": "Scapholunate dissociation. Scapholunate dissociation is the most frequent serious ligamentous injury of the wrist. Untreated, this injury can lead to disabling wrist pain, reduced wrist mobility and chronic degenerative arthritis. Early recognition of the injury by careful clinical and radiographic examination results in the most favorable prognosis. Standard posteroanterior and lateral radiographs of the wrist may be inadequate. Instead, radiographs obtained with the wrist in radial and ulnar deviation or with the hand gripping forcefully may be needed to reveal the instability of this joint. Magnetic resonance imaging may be required in special cases, as it is the only imaging modality that can directly depict abnormalities of the ligaments. Surgical intervention is recommended for optimal results. Chronic injuries require specialized operative and rehabilitative management."}
{"id": "8188775", "title": "Complications of common carpal injuries.", "content": "Complications of common carpal injuries. Interest in the diagnosis and treatment of common disorders of the carpus has intensified in recent years. Although newer nonoperative and surgical procedures have developed to improve outcome, complications and their treatment remain a challenging problem. To address complications of the more common carpal injuries, we have chosen fractures of the scaphoid, scapholunate ligament injuries, carpal fracture dislocations, and fractures of the hook of the hamate for discussion."}
{"id": "8173057", "title": "[The monitor findings of digitalized conventional wrist x-rays].", "content": "[The monitor findings of digitalized conventional wrist x-rays]. The study aimed at proving the reliability of monitor systems with the matrix of 1024 x 768 for the detection of scaphoid fractures compared to conventional X-ray. Moreover, we were interested in the significance of procedures of digital imaging post processing, depending in particular on the experience of investigators. 5 investigators with different levels of experience analysed 57 X-rays of the wrist. They compared conventional X-rays with images on a high screen monitor system after the digitalisation of these X-rays by a CCD-scanner and analysed untreated and treated images. A 5-point scale ROC analysis was used for evaluation. The analysis covered a total of 1740 evaluations. The untreated images seen on the monitor system proved slightly better than conventional X-rays. Post-processing has no evident advantage over untreated images. Differing levels of experience had no effect whatsoever on the identification of findings."}
{"id": "8169465", "title": "Experience of the early use of technetium 99 bone scintigraphy in wrist injury.", "content": "Experience of the early use of technetium 99 bone scintigraphy in wrist injury. In a retrospective study, patients with suspected scaphoid fracture had an average of three sets of scaphoid radiographs prior to scintigraphy. Scans were performed an average of 3 months after injury and many were inconclusive because of disuse changes. A prospective analysis of early scintigraphy in 35 cases over 18 months was carried out. Scans were performed at an average of 15.5 days after injury in selected cases. Patients had an average of 1.28 sets of negative radiographs prior to scanning. There were no false negative scans and in 13 with focal uptake a wrist fracture was demonstrated. Diffuse uptake was thought to be indicative of ligamentous damage or reflex sympathetic dystrophy. Early scintigraphy was found to be a sensitive, reliable and cost-effective examination in cases of suspected significant wrist injury."}
{"id": "8164094", "title": "Cortical and trabecular bone contribute strength to the osteopenic distal radius.", "content": "Cortical and trabecular bone contribute strength to the osteopenic distal radius. Fractures of the distal radius are common, especially in postmenopausal women, and their prevalence increases with age. Knowledge of the factors that increase the risk of fracture in this metaphyseal region would have predictive and therapeutic implications. Of particular interest in this study were (a) the relative contributions of cortical and trabecular bone to the strength of the distal radius and (b) the best radiographic features to use as strength indicators. In 21 forearms from fresh cadavera (median age at the time of death, 75 years), single photon absorptiometry and quantitative computed tomography were used to determine bone mineral content (BMC), density (BMC/W), and cross-sectional properties of the radius at distal and midshaft sites. Mechanical testing of the forearms then was used to determine the ultimate force and energy to cause the type of fracture that might be caused by a fall on the outstretched hand. Twelve of the 17 tested specimens sustained a fracture of the distal radius, and five sustained a fracture of the scaphoid. In the group of fractures of the distal radius, we found the cross-sectional area and moment of inertia of the cortical shell at the metaphyseal site to be better correlates of strength than the trabecular area and trabecular moment. In contrast, strength correlated much better with trabecular density than with cortical density. Overall, the best correlates of strength were the BMC and BMC/W at either the distal or proximal site. On balance, these results suggest that the thin cortical shell contributes substantially more to the mechanical strength of the distal radius than has been commonly appreciated."}
{"id": "8153501", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress fracture in athletes.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress fracture in athletes. Stress fracture of the tarsal navicular bone is now frequently recognised. The majority of navicular stress fractures are partial fractures in the sagittal plane. They occur mainly in track and field athletes. A number of theories regarding the aetiology of this fracture have been proposed. Athletes with a history of vague, activity-related midfoot pain, with associated tenderness over the dorsal proximal navicular ('N' spot) should be suspected of having a navicular stress fracture. Plain radiography frequently fails to demonstrate the fracture, thus radionuclide scanning is the investigation of choice to detect navicular stress injury. A computed tomography (CT) scan should be performed to confirm the presence of the fracture. Various methods of treatment have been employed. A minimum of 6 weeks of strict non-weightbearing cast immobilisation is the treatment of choice. After removal of the cast, a further 6 week programme of rehabilitation with a graduated return to activity, joint mobilisation and soft tissue massage is required. Surgery for nonunion or delayed union is rarely required if initial treatment is appropriate."}
{"id": "8134866", "title": "Occult wrist pain due to capitate nonunion.", "content": "Occult wrist pain due to capitate nonunion. Capitate nonunion is an uncommon cause of occult wrist pain. History of wrist injury, tenderness in the distal carpal row, capitate-view x-rays, and special radiographic studies such as bone scan, CT scan, or magnetic resonance imaging can confirm the diagnosis."}
{"id": "8077822", "title": "Traction radiographs in the diagnosis of chronic wrist pain.", "content": "Traction radiographs in the diagnosis of chronic wrist pain. A sensitive non-invasive diagnostic test for intrinsic ligament rupture in patients with chronic wrist pain has still to be found. Differential displacement of the scaphoid, lunate and triquetrum can in some instances be seen during arthroscopy of acute wrist injuries and also on overdistraction of distal radial fractures with an external fixator. We performed a prospective study on 20 patients with chronic wrist pain using 2 kg and 5 kg traction radiographs without and with the addition of an ischaemic block, to assess differential displacement as a diagnostic criterion for intrinsic ligament rupture. Arthroscopy was used as arbiter of diagnosis. The sensitivity ranged from 14% to 57% and the specificity ranged from 53.7% to 100% according to the amount of traction and ischaemic block. In view of these poor results we conclude the stretch test has no additional value in the preoperative assessment of chronic wrist pain."}
{"id": "8009467", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of acute scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of acute scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "8000403", "title": "[Scaphoid fissure in algodystrophy: diagnostic value of MRI].", "content": "[Scaphoid fissure in algodystrophy: diagnostic value of MRI]. Stress fractures are exceptional in patients with reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, even when bone loss is severe. We report a case of stress fracture of the navicular bone documented by magnetic resonance imaging. Recurrence of localized pain in patients with reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome suggests either a relapse of the syndrome or a bony fissure. Magnetic resonance imaging can provide early differentiation of these two conditions."}
{"id": "7989702", "title": "The utility of a bone scan in the diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture.", "content": "The utility of a bone scan in the diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture. The incidence of true scaphoid fracture and the value of radionuclide scan was evaluated in a 1-year retrospective review of 54 emergency department patients with a preliminary diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture (snuff box tenderness and negative initial X-ray study). All emergency department charts of patients with a discharge diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture were reviewed to determine the number ultimately found to have a true scaphoid fracture and to ascertain how the diagnosis was actually achieved. All patients were managed by immobilization in a thumb spica cast for a period of 10-14 d, with repeat clinical assessment and radiographs at that time. The diagnosis of true scaphoid fracture was confirmed radiographically at the time of reassessment or, in the case of persistent tenderness and negative repeat radiographs, by the use of a technetium bone scan. In our study group, only 8 of 54 patients (14.8%) were found to have a final diagnosis of true scaphoid fracture. In 75% (6/8) of these patients, the diagnosis was made by technetium bone scans, as the radiographs remained negative at the time of reassessment. In addition, a bone scan revealed the presence of two previously unsuspected fractures (one distal radius fracture and one triquetral fracture) in two patients with continued clinical tenderness. This study confirms the previously reported low incidence of scaphoid fractures in patients with a diagnosis of clinical scaphoid fracture. It also demonstrates the importance of technetium bone scan as a diagnostic tool of increased sensitivity, as compared to traditional radiographs, in detecting the presence of scaphoid fractures and in detecting other clinically unsuspected fractures in this group of patients."}
{"id": "7973285", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of the hand: current status].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of the hand: current status]. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an established imaging method in abnormalities of the wrist. Inherent advantages of this imaging method such as the lack of ionizing irradiation, the free choice of imaging planes and its excellent contrast resolution have been enhanced by the introduction of surface coils and new sequences. These developments result in an improved spatial resolution, allowing imaging of small structures such as the triangular fibrocartilage. There is a number of established indications for MRI of the wrist, e.g. diagnosis of avascular necrosis, follow-up after carpal tunnel surgery and imaging of soft tissue masses. Increasingly, MRI can be used for the diagnosis of intercarpal ligament tears as well. The diagnostic capabilities of MRI of the wrist are discussed, based on personal experience and a review of the literature."}
{"id": "7964103", "title": "Real time ultrasonography in the assessment of movement at the site of a scaphoid fracture non-union.", "content": "Real time ultrasonography in the assessment of movement at the site of a scaphoid fracture non-union. We investigated the use of real time linear ultrasonography in determining movement at a scaphoid fracture site in 27 patients with non-united scaphoid fractures. 24 of these patients had surgical treatment. Fracture movement was observed at the time of surgery and this was compared with the ultrasonographic findings. The technique proved to be 100% specific for visualization of movement at the fracture site and it was non-invasive. However, it was of no benefit in assessing proximal pole non-union."}
{"id": "7939837", "title": "Abnormal geometry of the distal radioulnar joint: MR findings.", "content": "Abnormal geometry of the distal radioulnar joint: MR findings. Previously developed criteria of normal distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) axial geometry were applied to routine magnetic resonance (MR) images of 50 wrists. All wrists lacked clinically evident DRUJ instability. An attempt to apply the three geometric criteria to seven of the cases was not possible, since the prescribed landmarks were not visible. The remaining 43 cases were retrospectively divided into a symptomatic group (25 wrists), with clinical abnormalities referable to the ulnar side of the wrist, and an asymptomatic group (18 wrists), with no such abnormalities. Abnormal DRUJ geometry was found in 12 symptomatic and 2 asymptomatic wrists. This difference between the groups is significant (p = 0.02), suggesting that many symptomatic wrists exhibit different DRUJ geometry than is found in most asymptomatic wrists."}
{"id": "7936737", "title": "The distal radioulnar joint following Galeazzi's fracture.", "content": "The distal radioulnar joint following Galeazzi's fracture. Fourteen patients underwent evaluation of the distal radioulnar joint following Galeazzi's fracture. Five of 12 patients who underwent a preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan of the wrist had evidence of injury to the triangular fibrocartilage complex. These 5 patients also had abnormal intraoperative radiocarpal arthrograms. The amount of radial shortening in the injured forearm was measured prior to surgical treatment. Injury to the distal radioulnar joint appeared to be independent of the amount of radial shortening."}
{"id": "7855505", "title": "[Dislocations of the carpal bones].", "content": "[Dislocations of the carpal bones]. Thirty per cent of the carpal dislocations are missed although a significant injury was sustained by the wrist. The extent of the ligamentous tears is relative to the magnitude of the forces applied and the anterior lunate dislocation corresponds to the more severe lesions. When a scaphoid fracture is associated, its treatment is predominant. Conservative treatment of a perilunate dislocation results very frequently in carpal instability and subsequently in wrist osteoarthritis after a variable period of time. Surgical treatment is now indicated in a great majority of cases, for reduction and fixation of a displaced scaphoid, or for ligament repairs."}
{"id": "7854839", "title": "Scaphoid fractures and scaphoid nonunion. Diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures and scaphoid nonunion. Diagnosis and treatment. Scaphoid nonunion can cause pain, loss of wrist motion, and loss of grip strength. Because initial roentgenograms are not always definitive, patients suspected of having a scaphoid fracture despite negative initial radiographs should undergo bone scan. Treatment of acute nondisplaced fracture of the scaphoid generally nonoperative, involving immobilization in a cast. Treatment of scaphoid nonunion is generally operative, and many procedures and their associated risks are reviewed. There is no consensus about the clinical implications of scaphoid malunion."}
{"id": "7810012", "title": "[Scaphoid fractures. Fracture types and localization].", "content": "[Scaphoid fractures. Fracture types and localization]. The incidence, localization, and type of scaphoid fractures found in a well-defined population is described. Fractures of the carpal scaphoid (n = 442) of which 19 (5%) were nonunions were identified during an eight-year period. Among inhabitants living in the Odense Municipality (population at risk 170,648 in 1983 to 174,948 in 1989) 222 males and 51 females who sustained scaphoid fractures during a seven-year period were used for computation of incidence. During the survey, there was an average annual incidence of scaphoid fracture of eight per 100,000 females, and 38 per 100,000 males. The average annual incidence per 100,000 inhabitants of carpal scaphoid fractures according to the location was proximal two, middle 15, and distal six. Average annual incidence per 100,000 inhabitants of carpal scaphoid fractures according to type was transverse seven, horizontal oblique nine, vertical oblique one, avulsion/fracture of the tuberosity five, and not stated one."}
{"id": "7799763", "title": "Wrist problems in the tennis player.", "content": "Wrist problems in the tennis player. Although wrist injuries in tennis may occur from acute direct trauma, most injuries occur due to chronic overuse. Wrist biomechanics in tennis indicate that a wide range of wrist motion may not be necessary for effective play. The nature of the injury should be established as early as possible with the goals of restoring the wrist to a pain-free stable unit with normal range of motion. A secondary goal is to return the athlete to play as quickly as possible. Key points of the athlete's history are acute or chronic onset, progressive symptoms, and severity of symptoms, i.e., limitation of play. Key points of the physical examination include localization of maximal tenderness, edema, loss of range of motion, and bilateral grip strength. Plain roentgenograms should always be obtained. Specific imaging studies may be indicated and include bone scan, computed tomography, and arthrography. Specific and common wrist tennis injuries are discussed and treatment recommendations are given. Wrist problems in tennis are no uncommon and are responsible for a significant amount of lost playing time. Familiarity with the more common problems will enhance the physician's ability to evaluate and treat these athletes."}
{"id": "7706881", "title": "Os centrale carpi simulating a scaphoid waist fracture.", "content": "Os centrale carpi simulating a scaphoid waist fracture. The os centrale carpi is a relatively rare accessory carpal bone, and its presence may be confused with a scaphoid fracture. A case is presented which simulated an un-united scaphoid fracture on the plain X-ray film. However, CT in the sagittal plane showed two rounded fragments on the dorsum of the scaphoid with smooth, regular cortical margins differing from an acute scaphoid fracture. Their volume combined with the volume of the scaphoid is more than that of a completely normal scaphoid. There is no evidence of degeneration in the two rounded fragments and scaphoid. Because of these features, the diagnosis of soft tissue injury with an incidental finding of an os centrale carpi was suggested."}
{"id": "7706880", "title": "Scintigraphy in the evaluation of the \"clinical\" scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Scintigraphy in the evaluation of the \"clinical\" scaphoid fracture. In a prospective study we performed bone scans on 84 patients who had sustained a wrist injury and in whom a scaphoid fracture was clinically suspected but could not be confirmed on the original set of five routine \"scaphoid view\" radiographs. In 40 patients the bone scan was normal and in 25 there was increased uptake in areas other than the scaphoid. In 19 there was localized increased uptake in the scaphoid bone. In seven of these a scaphoid fracture was subsequently demonstrated on repeat radiographs (five cases) or a CT scan (two cases). In the remaining 12 no fracture could be demonstrated."}
{"id": "7706879", "title": "What value the scaphoid compression test?", "content": "What value the scaphoid compression test? It has been suggested that a positive scaphoid compression test will reliably confirm the presence of a fractured scaphoid in those patients presenting with an injury clinically suggestive of this, but without a fracture visible on initial X-rays. A prospective study was carried out in 99 patients presenting with an injury clinically suggestive of a scaphoid fracture. 74 patients had positive scaphoid compression tests with 24 of these patients having a scaphoid fracture visible on initial X-ray and seven having a fracture diagnosed either by repeat X-ray or bone scan 2 weeks after injury. 25 patients had a negative test, with ten having a scaphoid fracture visible on initial X-ray and three on repeat X-ray at 2 weeks. These results show that this test had a sensitivity of 70.5%, a specificity of 21.8% and predictive value of 41.9%. A positive scaphoid compression test is an unreliable diagnostic aid for a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "7706878", "title": "Clinical signs in scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Clinical signs in scaphoid fractures. In a prospective study we investigated 12 clinical features for scaphoid fractures in 52 patients: 23 in whom a fracture of the scaphoid was diagnosed radiologically and 29 patients in whom a fracture was clinically suspected but could not be confirmed by radiography or scintigraphy. The signs were tested within a few days of injury and again 2 weeks later. None was reliable in diagnosing a scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "7531477", "title": "The palmar wrist ligaments revisited, clinical relevance.", "content": "The palmar wrist ligaments revisited, clinical relevance. In fifteen cadaver wrists and ten foetus wrists palmar ligaments were studied. As a result, the palmar scapho-triquetral ligament was presented by means of gross anatomical study, MR imaging, and histological study. A kinematic study was conducted on three cadaver wrists to analyze patterns of motion on the proximal carpal row bones based on the helical axis concept. Motion analysis showed that the scaphoid has a set of helical axes bundled at the radial side of the wrist. On the contrary, the triquetrum had axes bundled on the ulnar side, approximately in the same position as the lunate. That shows that the lunate and triquetrum are coordinated in motion and opposed to that of the scaphoid. The structure possibly ruling this pattern of motion could be the palmar scapho-triquetral ligament, whose insertions on the scaphoid and triquetrum are close to the crossing-point of the helical axes of the scaphoid and triquetrum/lunate, respectively. In order to study the clinical relevance of our findings, a prospective clinical study on 53 patients after wrist injury was conducted. All patients were clinically examined, simple and semi-stress X-rays were taken, and arthrography and arthroscopy performed. Ligament tears were often found, but any correlation to clinical findings or arthrography could not be found. However, high correlation could be found between the lesion of the palmar scapho-triquetral ligament and a DISI position of the lunate combined with increased scapho-lunate angle. It can be concluded that the tear of the palmar scapho-triquetral ligament causes instability pattern that is radiologically evident at an early stage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8517289", "title": "Dorsal carpal ligaments of the wrist: normal appearance on multiplanar reconstructions of three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging.", "content": "Dorsal carpal ligaments of the wrist: normal appearance on multiplanar reconstructions of three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging. Three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques can produce much thinner contiguous slices than are obtainable with standard two-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques. The improved spatial resolution and capabilities for interactive multiplanar displays allow improved visualization of small, complex anatomic structures such as the carpal ligaments. The purposes of this study were twofold: (1) to determine if the dorsal carpal ligaments can be visualized consistently with three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques with multiplanar reconstructions and (2) to evaluate the size, shape, orientation, and right-to-left symmetry of the dorsal carpal ligaments in both wrists of 25 asymptomatic volunteers as a basis for future comparison when patients with suspected ligament injuries are seen. Both wrists of 25 asymptomatic volunteers were imaged with a three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging technique with commercially available equipment. A three-dimensional graphic workstation was used to reconstruct oblique two-dimensional images in the long axes of the radiotriquetral and dorsal intercarpal ligaments in all 50 wrists. The size, shape, orientation, and right-to-left symmetry were determined by the author using the reconstructed two-dimensional images. The radiotriquetral ligament and dorsal intercarpal ligament were visualized in all 50 wrists. The radiotriquetral ligament consisted of a single band arising from the distal radius (next to Lister's tubercle) in 84% and had dual origins from the styloid process of the radius and Lister's tubercle in 16%. The dorsal intercarpal ligament consisted of a single broad band in 14% of wrists, was a branched structure with separate triquetroscaphoid and triquetrotrapezial fascicles in 44%, had completely separate triquetroscaphoid and triquetrotrapezial fascicles in 38%, and had a triquetrotrapezial fascicle larger than the triquetroscaphoid fascicle in 4%. The dorsal intercarpal ligamentous anatomy was symmetric in 16 of 25 volunteers. The major dorsal carpal ligaments can be visualized consistently when using three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques and multiplanar reconstructions. The dorsal carpal ligaments are usually symmetric in size and morphology; therefore, MR images of the contralateral wrist may be used for comparison with MR images of a patient's injured wrist. The size and shape of the dorsal carpal ligaments are described for comparison with findings in patients who have suspected ligamentous injuries."}
{"id": "8515021", "title": "Osteochondral fracture in the distal end of the radius.", "content": "Osteochondral fracture in the distal end of the radius."}
{"id": "8501378", "title": "An algorithm for acute wrist trauma. A systematic approach to diagnosis.", "content": "An algorithm for acute wrist trauma. A systematic approach to diagnosis. A systematic approach to the acute traumatized wrist is of importance to achieve early diagnosis, with efficient use of advanced imaging modalities. In a 6-month period 641 patients aged 15 years or over were examined using an algorithm for acute wrist trauma in order to secure early and appropriate treatment. In 293 (46%) cases routine radiographic examination supplied sufficient information to establish a fracture diagnosis. All 33 scaphoid fractures (including five scaphoid non-unions) were demonstrated on the initial X-ray examination. In 56 patients (9%) scintigraphy proved useful for selecting cases in need of further radiographic examination. Among 31 patients with focal activity on bone scintigraphy, CT and/or tomography revealed eight distal radial fractures, one fracture of the ulnar styloid, and eight fractures of carpal bones. Fractures were revealed using tomography and/or \"hot spot views\" in patients with negative CT examinations suggesting that further examinations should be performed in cases with increased focal activity on bone scintigraphy and a negative CT examination."}
{"id": "8493728", "title": "[Destabilization of the discus articularis with rupture of the ulnar styloid apex in distal radius fracture. Diagnosis with dynamic MR].", "content": "[Destabilization of the discus articularis with rupture of the ulnar styloid apex in distal radius fracture. Diagnosis with dynamic MR]. An avulsion of the ulnar styloid apex led--because of a simultaneous rupture of the ulnar collateral ligament and a rupture of the disc's insertion in the fovea ulnaris--to a displacement of the triangular fibrocartilage. During movements in the frontal plane, the latter underwent a deformation, was displaced, compressed and blocked ulnar abduction. This pathology and the ulnar impingement could be observed in a \"MRI-movie\"."}
{"id": "8480035", "title": "[Magnetic resonance in the diagnosis of lesions of the carpal triangular fibrocartilage. The experience with 49 patients with chronic pain at the wrist].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance in the diagnosis of lesions of the carpal triangular fibrocartilage. The experience with 49 patients with chronic pain at the wrist]. In order to evaluate the diagnostic capabilities of MR Imaging in defining triangular fibrocartilage (TFC) lesions, 49 selected patients--21 with rheumatoid arthritis, 13 with traumatic injury and 15 with wrist fracture--presenting chronic wrist pain were examined with MR Imaging. The wrists of 12 healthy subjects were also studied as a control group. MR examinations were performed by means of a superconductive 1.0 T unit (Magnetom-Siemens); SE and GE T1- and T2-weighted pulse sequences were employed to acquire images of the wrists on the coronal, axial and, if necessary, sagittal planes. The results showed peripheral TFC tears in 10 cases, central TFC lesions in 12 cases and TFC lesions with collateral insertion involvement in 9 cases. In 4 patients focal thickening of TFC without disruption was observed. The correct diagnosis was made in all the 19 surgically verified cases. Our experience confirms the clinical value of MR Imaging in the evaluation of TFC lesions in patients with chronic ulnar pain syndrome."}
{"id": "8479720", "title": "Imaging techniques for distal radius fractures and related injuries.", "content": "Imaging techniques for distal radius fractures and related injuries. In patients with distal radius fractures, routine roentgenographic examination in at least two or three planes should be performed first and is usually sufficient for correct diagnosis and adequate treatment. A careful examination of the soft tissues of the forearm and wrist on conventional roentgenograms may be key for correct diagnoses. Routine roentgenographic examination of the wrist, preferable in four views, should be performed in every patient with a distal radius fracture acutely as well as at follow-up. The technique is easy to perform, universally available, and inexpensive. Advanced imaging techniques such as radionuclide bone imaging, CT, or MR imaging should not be first choice modalities in patients with distal radius fractures and should be used only when conventional roentgenograms are inconclusive. Scintigraphy can be helpful for diagnosing occult fractures, for documenting fracture healing and ligamentous or cartilaginous post-traumatic disorders, as well as for diagnosis and follow-up of reflex sympathetic dystrophy. A disadvantage of scintigraphy is its poor specificity. Indications for CT include the confirmation of occult fractures suspected on the basis of the findings of physical examination and focally hot bone scintigrams when plain films are normal or inconclusive. In comparison with conventional radiography, CT is superior for the preoperative evaluation of complex comminuted distal radius fractures, depicting the distal radial articular surface and size and position of fracture fragments, as well as for the assessment of fracture healing. Additionally, CT is the imaging technique of choice for the correct diagnosis of subluxations of the distal radioulnar joint. Magnetic resonance imaging is an important diagnostic technique for the evaluation of suspected injuries of soft tissues related to distal radius fractures, such as to the flexor and extensor tendons or the median nerve, and for the early diagnosis of necrosis of the scaphoid or lunate. Other indications include identification of triangular fibrocartilage complex perforations, ruptures of carpal ligaments, and demonstration of contents of the carpal tunnel."}
{"id": "8466435", "title": "Stress fractures.", "content": "Stress fractures. Stress fractures are now common. They are often missed because the doctor fails to keep the possible diagnosis in mind, or believes that a plain X-ray can exclude these fractures. A bone scan gives the diagnosis. Treatment is by rest in most cases, but stress fractures of the navicular sometimes require surgery."}
{"id": "8452713", "title": "Wrist arthrography.", "content": "Wrist arthrography. The ligaments of the proximal row of carpal bones and the triangular fibrocartilage (TFC) strongly influence the function and stability of the wrist. Injury to the ligaments may result in chronic wrist pain or instability. Wrist arthrography is valuable in the investigation of such damage when surgical intervention is considered and plain radiography is unrewarding. There are also several technical modifications of the standard radiocarpal arthrography available. Owing to the possibility of congenital perforations and degenerative changes in these ligaments the arthrographic findings should be related to the clinical signs and the age of the patient. CT has less diagnostic importance in this respect while MR imaging is an alternative and may become the method of choice. Both these methods have great potential in the evaluation of soft tissues of the wrist other than the TFC."}
{"id": "8451651", "title": "[Stress reactions and stress fractures in the high performance athlete. Causes, diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[Stress reactions and stress fractures in the high performance athlete. Causes, diagnosis and therapy]. From 1987 until July 1991 70 athletes with stress reactions or stress fractures were treated in the orthopaedic department of the Hannover Medical School. The average age of the 42 male and 28 female athletes was 22.6 years. The number of athletes involved in track and field sports was 29 (41.4%), in gymnastics 9 (12.9%) and in soccer 5 (7.1%). The most common bone injured was the tibia in 29 (41.4%), followed by the tarsal navicular in 21 (30.0%), the midfoot in 17 (24.3%) and the fibula in 4 (5.7%) athletes. In three cases double stress fractures were found in adjacent locations; in one case a stress fracture of the opposite navicular occurred after the initial tarsal navicular stress fracture had healed, and in another case the tarsal navicular was found to be fractured again. Thirty-seven percent of the athletes claimed sudden increase in training intensity was the cause; 33% felt that the increased sprinting and jump activities were the reason for their complaints. In some athletes pain started after an ankle sprain. Standard diagnostic procedure consisted in X-rays in two planes and three-phase bone scanning. In tarsal navicular or tibial locations additional tomograms were performed. MRI and CT scans were reserved for unclear findings and to exclude the possibility of a tumorous or inflammatory process. A new grading system was introduced that covers all forms of stress reactions from periostitis to pseudarthrosis. Clinical symptoms, sport disabilities, radiological and bone scan findings were graded from A to D. Using a modified Wilson classification, all radiologically recognizable stress reactions could be classified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8451410", "title": "Anatomic features of the carpal scaphoid: validation of biometric measurements and symmetry with three-dimensional MR imaging.", "content": "Anatomic features of the carpal scaphoid: validation of biometric measurements and symmetry with three-dimensional MR imaging. The goals of reconstructive surgery for scaphoid fracture nonunions include restoration of normal scaphoid length and shape by use of the contralateral scaphoid bone as a geometric model. A literature search revealed limited documentation of normal biometric measurements and no validation of scaphoid anatomic symmetry. A study was performed to provide normative data and evaluate the right-to-left symmetry of specific geometric measurements of the scaphoid. One hundred normal carpal scaphoid bones in 30 healthy subjects and 40 patients were examined with three-dimensional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Standardized oblique projections were reconstructed from each three-dimensional data set, and seven biometric measurements of each scaphoid were obtained. Normative data from the study group were obtained by means of analysis of all 100 scaphoids. Right-to-left symmetry was validated with the biometric measurements of both scaphoids in the healthy subjects. These data validate scaphoid symmetry and provide 95% confidence intervals for specific biometric measurements that are used for preoperative planning of surgical reconstruction of scaphoid nonunions."}
{"id": "8451048", "title": "[The painful ulno-carpal joint. Diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[The painful ulno-carpal joint. Diagnosis and therapy]. The ulnocarpal joint plays a critical role in hand and wrist function. It serves as part of forearm rotation as well as part of the carpal kinematics. The joint is comprised of the distal radio-ulnar articulation, triangular fibrocartilage complex, lunate, triquetrum, hamate, and pisiform, and the intra and extracapsular ligamentous and soft tissue constraints. Traumatic disruptions as well as chronic inflammatory conditions are commonplace. In addition to standard radiographs, arthrography, CT scanning, and MRI studies prove useful. Wrist arthroscopy is becoming of increasing importance in this region of the wrist. Ulnar impaction syndrome may occur associated with malunion of distal radius fracture, ulna positive variance, or chronic TFCC tears. Osteotomy of the distal radius or ulnar shortening osteotomy should be considered. Instability of the distal ulna can be treated with tenodesis procedures, hemi-resection arthroplasty, matched ulna resection or the Sauv\u00e9-Kapandji procedure."}
{"id": "8451046", "title": "[Trispiral tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist joint].", "content": "[Trispiral tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist joint]. Tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are important imaging techniques in the diagnosis and management of a wide variety of wrist disorders. They have been useful for evaluating fractures, tumors, arthritic conditions and avascular necrosis involving the carpal bones as well as injuries affecting the radiocarpal and intercarpal ligaments and the triangular fibrocartilage complex. The indications and clinical applications of each imaging technique will be discussed."}
{"id": "8443554", "title": "Trispiral tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist.", "content": "Trispiral tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist. Tomography, which permits a far more accurate visualization of lesions than conventional radiographs, is conducted via several different methods, depending on the specific movement of the x-ray tube. Linear tomography is the simplest method but produces images that appear streaked. Zonotomography, which uses an elliptical or figure-8 movement of the x-ray tube, creates a uniform blurring of structures and a much clearer resolution of the plane of focus. Even sharper images are produced by multidirectional trispiral tomography, which is described as well as its application to specific anatomic areas of the wrist. The normal anatomy and a variety of problems of the wrist as visualized with magnetic resonance imaging are also described."}
{"id": "8440272", "title": "Significance of a hot spot on the bone scan after carpal injury--evaluation by computed tomography.", "content": "Significance of a hot spot on the bone scan after carpal injury--evaluation by computed tomography. The use of bone scintigraphy in patients with negative radiographs after carpal injury is widely advocated. However, focally increased activity on the bone scan in the scaphoid or other carpal bones cannot always be radiologically confirmed as a fracture. To confirm scintigraphically suspected carpal fractures, computed tomography (CT) of the wrist was performed in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and initially negative radiographs. All patients underwent plain radiography, bone scintigraphy and CT. The combination of plain radiographs and CT, as judged by a panel of experienced observers, was used as the reference standard. In 18 patients, 21 out of 22 carpal hot spots on bone scintigraphy could be radiologically confirmed as a fracture. The diagnosis was missed by CT scan in three patients with proven fractures on plain radiographs. We conclude that, in patients with negative initial radiographs following carpal injury, a positive bone scan must be interpreted as a fracture."}
{"id": "8423315", "title": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures by intrasound vibration.", "content": "Diagnosis of occult scaphoid fractures by intrasound vibration. We investigated a new means of diagnosing occult scaphoid fractures. Eighty-six patients underwent vibratory testing at presentation, while the clinical examination and standard four-view x-ray examination findings were unknown to the persons who performed the vibratory testing of both the injured and uninjured wrists. Thirty-six patients had radiographically confirmed scaphoid fractures and, after their vibratory tests, were eliminated from the study. Fifty patients, 39 men and 11 women, were believed to have scaphoid fractures on the basis of history and clinical examination findings but were included in the occult scaphoid study group because standard four-view x-ray films of the wrists did not reveal a scaphoid fracture. Distinction between the fracture and no-fracture patients was made with a limited two-phase technetium bone scan and delayed x-ray examination. All patients with known scaphoid fractures (36) had positive findings on vibratory examination. Vibratory testing identified all six of the patients with occult scaphoid fractures (sensitivity 100%). Results of two examinations were false-positive, and none were false-negative (specificity 95%). One of the patients with false-positive results had a fracture of the trapezium, and the other had reflex sympathetic dystrophy. The vibratory testing of injured wrists is inexpensive, noninvasive, and easy to perform, and it involves no ionizing radiation."}
{"id": "8422558", "title": "Quantitative bone scintigraphy in reflex sympathetic dystrophy.", "content": "Quantitative bone scintigraphy in reflex sympathetic dystrophy. We have investigated the appearances of the technetium-99m labelled methylene diphosphonate bone scan in 29 scans performed in 16 patients with post-fracture reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) of the hand. There was a close correlation between increased uptake in the metacarpophalangeal joints and the metacarpal bones, suggesting that the increased uptake in RSD is not confined to the periarticular areas as has been previously reported but occurs throughout the affected region. In seven cases examined 3 months after fracture, RSD was associated with a significant increase in uptake at all sites in the hand on the delayed scan which was not seen in matched post-fracture controls, confirming that increased uptake on delayed bone scintography is a sensitive test for the presence of RSD even in the presence of a fracture of the wrist. The early increased uptake gradually returned to normal. Local tenderness assessed by dolorimetry was correlated with increased uptake, suggesting that the bone scan is not only useful as a diagnostic tool but also provides a quantitative indication of the severity of the condition which may be useful in planning and assessing treatments."}
{"id": "8421037", "title": "Radiography and scintigraphy of suspected scaphoid fracture. A long-term study in 160 patients.", "content": "Radiography and scintigraphy of suspected scaphoid fracture. A long-term study in 160 patients. Radiographs of the scaphoid after injury are difficult to interpret, and bone scintigraphy is widely used to increase the accuracy of diagnosis, though many fractures suspected on scintigraphy cannot be confirmed radiologically. We have reviewed the clinical consequences, after one year, of managing suspected scaphoid fractures according to the bone-scan results. We studied 160 patients, 35 of whom had initially positive radiographs and were treated in a cast for 12 weeks. The other 125 had bone scintigraphy and were managed according to the result. After a minimum of one year 119 patients were reviewed. Scintigraphically suspected scaphoid fracture could not be confirmed radiologically in 25%. There were no cases of nonunion. The long period of immobilisation in patients with positive radiographs or positive bone scans did not influence the frequency or severity of late symptoms compared with those with a normal bone scan."}
{"id": "8416606", "title": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular bone: CT findings in 55 cases.", "content": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular bone: CT findings in 55 cases. The purpose of this article is to present the CT findings in 55 cases of tarsal navicular stress fracture before and after treatment and to describe the CT protocol used. Fifty-five navicular stress fractures in 54 patients whose initial and follow-up CT scans were available for study were retrospectively reviewed. In most cases, contiguous 1.5-mm axial and 3-mm coronal scans of the navicular bone had been obtained. Both feet were scanned for comparison. Follow-up scans were obtained between 4 weeks and 6 years. On review, fractures were evident in all cases, but six small fractures (11%) were missed at the initial interpretation. All fractures involved the central third of the proximal dorsal margin of the navicular bone. Fifty-three fractures (96%) were partial. Forty-three partial fractures were linear, five were linear with bone fragments, and five were rim defects with ossicles. In 13 cases (24%) the fracture was small, 10% or less of bone height. The earliest sign of healing, slight dorsal cortical bridging, was seen in three of eight cases in which follow-up was done at 6 weeks. Firm cortical union was noted in 10 (32%) of 31 by 4 months. Nonunion occurred in 12 and was indicated by the persistence of the fracture gap and lack of cortical healing. Medullary cysts (five) and cortical notching (two) were noted to persist after complete healing. CT scanning is a suitable method for detecting navicular stress fracture and for performing follow-up examinations. Small fractures may be overlooked owing to lack of familiarity with their appearance."}
{"id": "8345279", "title": "The value of radiographs and bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fracture. A statistical analysis.", "content": "The value of radiographs and bone scintigraphy in suspected scaphoid fracture. A statistical analysis. The role of radiography and bone scintigraphy in the diagnostic management of suspected scaphoid fracture is controversial. Two strategies were compared for patients with initial negative radiographs: repeated radiography versus selective bone scintigraphy. Using the known positive predictive value of scintigraphy, the sensitivity and specificity of both diagnostic strategies were evaluated in a series of 78 consecutive patients. The kappa value for initial radiographs was 0.76 but decreased to 0.5 for follow-up radiographs. Similarly, sensitivity decreased from 64% to 30% in follow-up radiographs. Specificity of the bone scan was 98%. The best diagnostic strategy in the management of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures consists of initial radiography followed by bone scintigraphy in patients with negative radiographs."}
{"id": "8345266", "title": "Intraosseous ganglia of carpal bones.", "content": "Intraosseous ganglia of carpal bones. 25 patients with 26 intraosseous ganglia in carpal bones are described, 14 in the scaphoid and 12 in the lunate. In most cases, attention was drawn to the lesion when X-rays were performed after a recent injury to the wrist. Typically, they occurred eccentrically and were surrounded by a radio-dense rim of bone. In a few cases the cortex was breached but never expanded by the lesion. Curettage and bone grafting were performed only if symptoms persisted and no other source for the pain could be found. Most contained the typical jelly-like material also found in soft tissue ganglia and the histology showed an identical structure. A suggested format for the management of these lesions is presented."}
{"id": "8333377", "title": "Volar carpal ligaments of the wrist: normal appearance on multiplanar reconstructions of three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging.", "content": "Volar carpal ligaments of the wrist: normal appearance on multiplanar reconstructions of three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging. Three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques can produce much thinner contiguous slices than are obtainable with standard two-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques. The improved spatial resolution and capabilities for interactive multiplanar displays allow better visualization of small, complex anatomic structures, such as the carpal ligaments. The purposes of this study were twofold: (1) to determine if the volar carpal ligaments can be consistently visualized when using three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques with multiplanar reconstructions and (2) to evaluate the size, shape, orientation, and right-to-left symmetry of the volar carpal ligaments in both wrists of 25 asymptomatic volunteers as a basis for future comparison when patients with suspected ligament injuries are seen. Both wrists of 25 asymptomatic volunteers were imaged with a three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging technique with commercially available equipment. A three-dimensional graphic workstation was used to reconstruct oblique two-dimensional images in the long axes of the major volar carpal ligaments. The size, shape, orientation, and right-to-left symmetry of the ligaments were determined from the reconstructed two-dimensional images. Six of the eight volar ligaments were visualized in more than 95% of the 50 wrists: the radioscaphocapitate, radiolunotriquetral, radiolunate, ulnolunate, ulnotriquetral, and triquetroscaphoid ligaments. The radioscaphoid and radioscapholunate ligaments were less well defined and were recognizable as ligaments in only 66% and 26% of wrists, respectively. The major volar carpal ligaments can be visualized consistently with three-dimensional Fourier transform MR imaging techniques and multiplanar reconstructions. The volar carpal ligaments are usually symmetric between the right and left sides; therefore, MR images of a patient's injured wrist can be compared with MR images of the contralateral wrist. The size and shape of the volar carpal ligaments shown in this article can be used as a basis for comparison when patients with suspected ligamentous injuries are examined. This information will be useful for detecting ligamentous injuries on MR images."}
{"id": "8326437", "title": "Isolated intra-articular fracture of the ulnar head.", "content": "Isolated intra-articular fracture of the ulnar head. Although injuries involving the distal radioulnar joint are common, articular fractures of the ulnar head without concomitant fractures of the radius are rare. This report details an isolated fracture of the ulnar head as it articulates with the sigmoid notch of the radius. This fracture pattern, not previously described in the literature, may be more common than presently appreciated. Herbert screw fixation was used with an excellent final outcome at 2-year follow-up."}
{"id": "8325685", "title": "Carpal instability, the missed diagnosis in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Carpal instability, the missed diagnosis in patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fracture. To determine the incidence of carpal instability and its relation to clinical findings in patients with suspected scaphoid fracture, we performed a long-term follow-up investigation in a consecutive series of 160 patients who were treated in our department of traumatology for suspected scaphoid fracture after a fall on the outstretched hand. Radiography of the carpus was obtained. Bone scintigraphy was performed in all patients with negative initial radiographs. Follow-up investigation was performed in 100 patients and consisted of history, clinical examination, including measurement of grip strength and wrist movement, synovia stress test, Watson's scaphoid test, and radiographic examination. In 22 patients, clinical or radiological signs of carpal instability were found. The incidence of complaints and a positive synovia test were significantly higher in patients with suspected carpal instability. The bone scan was not useful for the detection or exclusion of carpal instability. The three-phase bone scan gave no additional information in the diagnosis of carpal instability."}
{"id": "8300730", "title": "Treatment of complex fractures of the distal radius. Combined use of internal and external fixation and arthroscopic reduction.", "content": "Treatment of complex fractures of the distal radius. Combined use of internal and external fixation and arthroscopic reduction. A group of fractures of the distal radius are inherently unstable and cannot be treated by closed reduction and cast or external fixation. These fractures are high-energy motor vehicle accidents often seen in young adults but possible in nearly every age group. They are not typical Colles's fractures because they are intra-articular with displacement of the joint articular surfaces. The goals of treatment are to obtain an anatomic reduction and then to proceed with treatment techniques to maintain the reduction by whatever methods are available or necessary within the experience of the treating surgeon. Previous admonitions that Colles's fractures should not be treated by open reduction are incorrect. Like other intra-articular fractures, the goal is anatomic alignment. Limited open reduction or newer arthroscopic techniques may be sufficient. A more aggressive approach of open reduction, internal and external fixation, and autogenous bone grafting is now indicated in most high-energy distal radius fractures to achieve the treatment goals defined earlier: anatomic joint surface reduction, restoration of radial length, and correction of dorsal malangulation."}
{"id": "8230827", "title": "[The utility of three-phase bone scintigraphy in the assessment of fractured carpal scaphoid].", "content": "[The utility of three-phase bone scintigraphy in the assessment of fractured carpal scaphoid]. Thirty-seven joints in 36 patients with a fractured carpal scaphoid were evaluated by three-phase bone scintigraphy. They were classified into two groups according to their progress. Some were in good clinical condition and some in a non-union condition. Increased blood flow in the radial arteries and ample perfusion on and around the scaphoid bones on blood flow images suggested a good clinical course. The activity and the effectiveness of remodeling correlated well with the degree of scaphoid uptake on blood pool images taken more than seven days after the injury. Scaphoid uptake was more localized or there was almost none on blood pool images in cases with nearly complete recovery while it was amply visualized on static images. Blood pool images were indispensable for analyzing lesions and evaluating the clinical course. Two typical findings of scaphoid fractures were found on both blood pool and static images. One was diffusely increased scaphoid uptake seen in cases with a good clinical course, and the other was decreased uptake at proximal fragments seen in cases with non-union. It is concluded that three-phase bone scintigraphy provides useful information for evaluating the process of scaphoid fractures which cannot be obtained by means of conventional bone scintigraphy."}
{"id": "8219128", "title": "[The isolated fracture of the hamulus ossis hamati--an easily overlooked wrist injury].", "content": "[The isolated fracture of the hamulus ossis hamati--an easily overlooked wrist injury]."}
{"id": "8144066", "title": "[Intraosseous ganglion of the scaphoid bone--a case report].", "content": "[Intraosseous ganglion of the scaphoid bone--a case report]. This is a case report of a 21-year-old male who suffered from wrist pain. X-rays showed a bone cyst of the scaphoid. Intraoperatively, an intraosseous ganglion of the scaphoid with articular communication was found. Symptoms and clinical characteristics of the intraosseous ganglion are discussed and recent literature reviewed."}
{"id": "8142965", "title": "[Scintigraphy of the carpal joint].", "content": "[Scintigraphy of the carpal joint]. Author performed scintigraphic examinations for the exclusion of navicular fracture, to follow the consolidation of the pseudarthrosis of the navicular bone and to demonstrate the osteoarthritis of the wrist joint. He states that bone scintigraphy is a help in the differential diagnosis of the fracture of the navicular. Conclusion may be drawn concerning the circulatory state of the bone. The consolidation of the pseudoarthrosis may be followed and the severity of the osteoarthritis of the carpal joint can be determined."}
{"id": "8142179", "title": "[Pathophysiology of perilunate dislocation].", "content": "[Pathophysiology of perilunate dislocation]. The anatomy of the palmar scapho-triquetral ligament was studied: on 15 hand specimens by means of gross anatomical dissections and MR imaging; and on a further 10 foetal wrist specimens, microanatomically. This ligament allows us to present the proximal carpal row as a socket, consisting of an upper part (the triquetrum, distal part of the scaphoid, and the dorsal and palmar scapho-triquetral ligament), and a base (the concave parts of the lunatum and scaphoid, connected by the scapho-lunate ligament). With a hyperextension wrist injury the upper part follows the distal part of the carpus, while the base remains fixed at the radius. The upper part slips away from the base, consequently, injuring the ligamentous structure, or causing a scaphoid fracture. The luno-triquetral and the palmar scapho-triquetral ligaments are also frequently torn. The overall prognosis depends on the grade of ligament damage. The arthroscopy allows us to estimate the state of the ligament structures, therefore, it is indicated before any reconstructive operation."}
{"id": "8142175", "title": "[Post-traumatic pain in the wrist, a diagnostic challenge].", "content": "[Post-traumatic pain in the wrist, a diagnostic challenge]. Hyperextension of the wrist may induce underestimated intrinsic and extrinsic ligamentous tears. Undetected scaphoid fractures show the importance of accurate primary diagnostic. Evaluation of the anatomic and functional integrity of the ligaments of the wrist remains challenging. It requires great experience, but in any case, radiology remains the basic diagnostic tool used by both the general practitioner and the specialist. Only the use of reproducible imaging techniques will allow for comparison between healthy and pathological side as well as for follow-up. Every one should master and use standardized techniques as described in this paper. The costs bound to appropriate imaging techniques are certainly lower than the consequences of misdiagnosed ligamentous damage or carpal bone fractures. Furthermore, standardized techniques will avoid repeating radiological sessions."}
{"id": "1729671", "title": "Scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures. Scaphoid fractures are often a difficult management problem, most typically affecting young men in their most active and productive years. A systematic approach to diagnosis and treatment can decrease the risk of management error and morbidity."}
{"id": "1640140", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging in scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging in scaphoid fractures. The use of a 1.5 tesla superconducting M.R. imager and surface coil was found to enhance the ability of M.R.I. to depict the fine anatomy of the wrist. Five healthy volunteers and 28 patients with scaphoid fractures underwent M.R.I., which made possible a definitive diagnosis of scaphoid fractures at an early stage. A fresh fracture was identified by decreased or iso signal intensity on the T1-weighted image and increased signal intensity on the T2-weighted image. This increase continued until bony union was apparent on radiographs. On the T2-weighted image, high signal intensity was characteristic of fresh fractures and suggested that bony union was possible. When bony union was complete, the intensity of the signal for the scaphoid on both T1- and T2-weighted images returned to normal. M.R.I. should thus prove useful in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "1631335", "title": "[Computerized tomography as a diagnostic complement of standard radiograms in the evaluation of traumatic lesions of the carpal scaphoid. A study of 10 cases].", "content": "[Computerized tomography as a diagnostic complement of standard radiograms in the evaluation of traumatic lesions of the carpal scaphoid. A study of 10 cases]. The authors investigated the value of direct coronal CT as a diagnostic complement to plain radiography in the assessment of post-traumatic scaphoid conditions. The series included 10 patients who were selected either for disagreement of clinical and radiological findings, the latter being negative (3 patients), or for better assessment of radiological findings, which had diagnosed bone lesions, in order to plan treatment (7 cases). CT provided additional information in 5 patients, demonstrating 2 nonunited fractures in the first group and 2 pseudoarthroses with no significant bone deformity and 1 osteonecrosis in the second group. These results, which proved essential to plan the subsequent treatment, show that CT has, at present, in specific cases, a definite role in evaluating post-traumatic scaphoid conditions, and stress the value of direct coronal images, which are both easy to interpret, being equivalent to radiographs in postero-anterior projection, and quick to perform."}
{"id": "1629558", "title": "Computerized tomographic evaluation of acute distal radial fractures.", "content": "Computerized tomographic evaluation of acute distal radial fractures. To learn whether computerized tomography offered additional useful information over conventional radiographic evaluation of acute distal radial fractures in the younger adult, we scanned 22 consecutive injured wrists. Of the distal radial fractures in 19 wrists, sixteen were defined on plain films as intra-articular. In contrast, computerized tomography demonstrated that all fractures of the distal radius had intra-articular extension. In 3 wrists interpreted as being normal on plain films, despite clinical suspicion of a fracture, fractures were confirmed by computerized tomography. As a result of computerized tomography, injuries were assigned a higher Frykman value in 5 cases, and consideration of alternative patient management became necessary in 5 of the 22 patients."}
{"id": "1618419", "title": "[Computerized tomography of the hand with high resolution technique].", "content": "[Computerized tomography of the hand with high resolution technique]. The results of 175 high-resolution computed tomography (CT) scans of the hand and wrist are analysed and compared to the results of conventional radiographs. Advantages of the procedure can be demonstrated when assessing pathological changes within the complex three-dimensional structure of the hand and wrist, and in the analysis of articular surfaces. In some cases, fractures and dislocations of the distal radioulnar joint and the carpal bones were missed in conventional radiographs. In cases of scaphoid fracture and nonunion, CT scans give valuable additional information surpassing the possibilities of conventional radiographs. For instance, bone healing after bone grafting can be better evaluated with a CT scan. Furthermore, preoperative planning is simplified, when tumors and cysts of the carpal bones can be located precisely using computed tomography."}
{"id": "1617837", "title": "High-resolution bone scintigraphy of the adult wrist.", "content": "High-resolution bone scintigraphy of the adult wrist. Bony anatomic landmarks of the wrist (e.g., pisiform, hook of hamate, radioulnar joint, and styloid processes of the radius and ulna) were routinely identified in 28 adult patients examined for wrist pain. With the wrists prone and immobilized, bone scintigrams were obtained for 500,000 counts with an asymmetric (133 to 161 keV) Tc-99m energy window and either a converging (best choice) or straight-bore, high-resolution collimator. High-resolution scintigraphy precisely localized degenerative joint disease (nine patients), scaphoid fractures (five), pisiform fracture (one), lunate avascular necrosis (one), radioulnar arthritis (one), septic or inflammatory arthritis (six), ulnocarpal impingement (two), and reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (two). Images obtained palm down with the wrist in ulnar deviation helped identify increased uptake within the scaphoid. Fracture and significant bone or joint disease were excluded in one patient."}
{"id": "1613212", "title": "Computer-generated bone models in the planning of osteotomy of multidirectional distal radius malunions.", "content": "Computer-generated bone models in the planning of osteotomy of multidirectional distal radius malunions. Computer-assisted design and manufacturing technology has been used to create solid models of five unusually complex, multidirectional malunions of distal radius fractures. Preoperative planning was dramatically enhanced by the ability to perform the surgical procedure on these models, with a model of the uninjured limb used for comparison. All five patients had significant malunions, with malrotation in the horizontal plane in five and an impacted articular fragment in two. A satisfactory outcome was achieved in each case."}
{"id": "1609073", "title": "Radiographic evaluation of the wrist: what does the hand surgeon want to know?", "content": "Radiographic evaluation of the wrist: what does the hand surgeon want to know? Congenital, developmental, and acquired wrist deformities predispose patients to characteristic conditions and their associated debilities. The accurate recognition and quantitation of these conditions represent guideposts to treatment and prognosis. The authors present mensuration methods and normal ranges for the important morphologic features of carpal height, ulnar variance, radial inclination, radial length, palmar tilt, and radial shift. These measurements assume importance in the description and quantitation of many conditions. The authors review the radiographic features and diagnosis of dissociated and nondissociated carpal instability, scapholunate advanced collapse, ulnar translocation, ulnocarpal impaction, and ulnoradial impingement."}
{"id": "1582612", "title": "[Computerized tomography diagnosis of scaphoid fracture and pseudarthrosis in comparison with roentgen image].", "content": "[Computerized tomography diagnosis of scaphoid fracture and pseudarthrosis in comparison with roentgen image]. Twenty eight patients with fourteen acute scaphoid fractures and fourteen with scaphoid non-union were examined with standard X-rays in two planes, special scaphoid projections and computed tomography. Nine scaphoid fractures were revealed by both standard X-rays and CT, whereas four fractures could only be detected by CT. Computed tomography should be used when there is clinical suspicion of scaphoid fracture but standard radiographs remain negative. All carpal bones should be examined. Fourteen patients with suspected scaphoid non-union were examined. In twelve patients, scaphoid non-union seemed to be complete in standard X-rays, whereas CT showed a bony bridge between the proximal and distal fragment. Another patient showed bony union. Two patients showed no non-union in standard X-rays. One was confirmed after a Matti-Russe procedure, but the bone graft was dislocated, causing restricted wrist motion. One scaphoid non-union was demonstrated by CT. Two patients showed signs of additional carpal fractures. Diagnostic applications of CT for scaphoid non-union include the determination of the exact location of the fragments and the evaluation of post-traumatic cysts, thus simplifying pre-operative planning."}
{"id": "1572718", "title": "Diagnosing scaphoid fractures: radiographs cannot be used as a gold standard!", "content": "Diagnosing scaphoid fractures: radiographs cannot be used as a gold standard! To evaluate the reproducibility of the interpretation of radiographs for the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures, 134 radiographs (60 consecutive patients) were blindly observed by a resident radiologist, consultant radiologist, resident trauma surgeon and consultant trauma surgeon. The results of radiographs were analysed using kappa (kappa) statistics and stratified according to the results of the corresponding bone scan. In 23 patients the bone scan was positive for fracture of the scaphoid. Irrespective of training and experience, the kappa of the comparison of the scores of the radiographs between any two observers did not exceed 40 per cent. After stratification of the outcome of the bone scan, the kappa did not increase significantly. A panel of three experienced observers gave their opinion of all radiographs. The results were compared with the bone scan results. We conclude that radiographs in suspected scaphoid fracture cannot be used as a reliable diagnostic approach because of the low inter-observer agreement in the interpretation, irrespective of the experience and training of the observer."}
{"id": "1549659", "title": "CT of the wrist: a tailored approach.", "content": "CT of the wrist: a tailored approach."}
{"id": "1508768", "title": "Scaphoid fractures: assessment and treatment.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures: assessment and treatment. The scaphoid is the most commonly fractured carpal bone. The fracture pattern and its relationship to the blood supply have significant implications regarding treatment and prognosis. Prompt recognition and treatment are fundamental to successful management."}
{"id": "1469345", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist: occult osseous lesions.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the wrist: occult osseous lesions. This article illustrates the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of occult osseous lesions in three different patients. All three patients suffered from a history of wrist trauma, but had negative plain film radiographs. The three types of occult lesions (bone bruise, microfracture and chronic osseous damage) are described, and their MRI characteristics are demonstrated by proton density and T2 weighted images. MRI proved to be the diagnostic modality of choice for the detection of posttraumatic intrinsic marrow changes."}
{"id": "1460062", "title": "The distal radioulnar joint.", "content": "The distal radioulnar joint. A phylogenic review shows the DRUJ to be a highly evolved and specialized structure. The diarthrodial joint, in combination with the TFCC, ligament complex, and oblique fibers of the distal interosseous membrane, permit rotation while preserving stability and transmitting the load borne by the radiocarpal joint to both bones of the forearm. Our improved, yet imperfect, understanding of the anatomy, biomechanics, and pathophysiology of the region, abetted by new imaging modalities and wrist arthroscopy, permit more precise diagnosis and thus more rational treatment. The persistent inconsistency of our results belies our imperfect comprehension. Thus humbled, consider Goethe's admonition as a call to further scrutiny and investigation, \"Theory and experience are opposed to each other in constant conflict. Only action can reconcile them.\""}
{"id": "1460060", "title": "Ligamentous injuries to the wrist. Imaging techniques.", "content": "Ligamentous injuries to the wrist. Imaging techniques. The variety of imaging techniques available to the clinician facilitates the diagnosis of acute and chronic wrist disorders. In most cases, conventional radiographs provide sufficient information. Computed and trispiral tomography, arthrography, video-fluoroscopy, and magnetic resonance imaging are additional imaging techniques that are useful in making the correct diagnosis and deciding on a course of treatment."}
{"id": "1456374", "title": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. A case report.", "content": "Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. A case report. In summary, the diagnosis of a tarsal navicular stress fracture should be entertained in the athlete with ill-defined midfoot pain. Technetium bone scans will often point the clinician in the right direction; biplanar CT scans will pin-point the diagnosis and can be invaluable in perioperative planning. Subsequent treatment, however, must be determined on a clinical rather than a radiographic basis."}
{"id": "1456359", "title": "Outcome of conservative and surgical management of navicular stress fracture in athletes. Eighty-six cases proven with computerized tomography.", "content": "Outcome of conservative and surgical management of navicular stress fracture in athletes. Eighty-six cases proven with computerized tomography. Eighty-two athletes with 86 clinical navicular stress fractures, all imaged with computerized tomography, were followed for an average of 33 months (range, 6 to 108) after diagnosis. Initial treatment consisted of at least 6 weeks of nonweightbearing cast immobilization for 22 fractures, at least 6 weeks of limitation of activity with continued weightbearing for 34 fractures, and a period of less than 6 weeks of conservative treatment for another 19 fractures. Five patients attempted to continue playing sports. Six patients had immediate surgery. Nineteen of 22 patients (86%) who had initial non-weightbearing cast immobilization treatment returned to sports, compared with only 9 of 34 patients (26%) who initially continued weightbearing with limited activity (P < 0.001). After failure of the latter treatment, successful outcomes were seen for 6 of 7 patients (86%) treated with nonweightbearing cast immobilization, while 11 of 15 patients (73%) who had one surgical procedure were able to return to sports. These results indicate that nonweightbearing cast immobilization is the treatment of choice for navicular stress fractures. Also, this treatment compares favorably with surgical treatment for patients who present after failed weightbearing treatments. Computerized tomographic appearances of healing fractures do not necessarily mirror clinical union, and postimmobilization management should be monitored clinically."}
{"id": "1451699", "title": "The reliability of the 3-phase bone scan in suspected scaphoid fracture: an inter- and intraobserver variability analysis.", "content": "The reliability of the 3-phase bone scan in suspected scaphoid fracture: an inter- and intraobserver variability analysis. In the diagnosis of scaphoid fracture, the dynamic phase of the radionuclide bone scan alone has been recommended as an early test. To evaluate the independent reliability of the dynamic and static phases of the 3-phase bone scan in this diagnosis, 3 examiners reviewed the 3-phase bone scans of a series of 60 patients with clinical signs of fracture of the carpal scaphoid and with negative or non-diagnostic initial radiographs. The interpretation was performed independently and without the benefit of additional data. The bone scans were reviewed after 1 year by the same observers. The results were analyzed using kappa statistics. The bone scan was suspicious of fracture of the scaphoid in 15 patients. Irrespective of training and experience, the kappa values of the dynamic bone scan between any 2 observers did not exceed 0.57. The kappa values increased significantly when the static phase of the bone scan was examined (> 0.81). The intraobserver variability showed a similar pattern. We conclude that in suspected scaphoid fracture, the dynamic phase of the radionuclide bone scan alone cannot be used as a reliable diagnostic approach because of the low inter- and intraobserver agreement in the interpretation, irrespective of the experience and training of the observer."}
{"id": "1437251", "title": "Scaphoid enchondroma.", "content": "Scaphoid enchondroma. Enchondromas are rarely found in carpal bones. This paper reports a case with scaphoid enchondroma and reviews three cases from previous literature. Three of the patients with scaphoid enchondromas presented with pathologic fractures after traumatic events. Each enchondroma had characteristic histopathologic findings. It is important to realize that although enchondroma is usually a painless lesion, it weakens the cortex of the involved bone, facilitating fracture. Thus, when cystic scaphoid fractures are encountered, enchondroma must be part of the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "1400550", "title": "Long-term results after Russe bone-grafting: the effect of malunion of the scaphoid.", "content": "Long-term results after Russe bone-grafting: the effect of malunion of the scaphoid. Twenty-five patients had Russe anterior corticocancellous bone-grafting between 1973 and 1984 for twenty-six symptomatic established non-unions of the scaphoid. The mean duration of follow-up was eleven years (range, seven to eighteen years). Twenty-one (81 per cent) of the twenty-six scaphoid bones united. We developed two rating scales to evaluate the results of the operation. One scale, based on objective findings, included the radiographic appearance of the wrist, the range of motion, and strength; the other scale, based on subjective findings, comprised function, pain, perception of a decrease in performance because of limitation of motion or strength, and satisfaction. These scales were used to compare the objective and subjective results in patients who had a malunion of the scaphoid in which the lateral intrascaphoid angle was more than 45 degrees convex dorsally between the proximal and distal poles (a so-called flexion or humpback deformity, which results in extension of the proximal fragment of the scaphoid at the radiocarpal joint) with the results in patients who had no such deformity. The lateral intrascaphoid angle was more than 45 degrees in thirteen (50 per cent) of the twenty-six wrists. Although the difference in the objective results between the wrists that had a malunion and those that did not have a malunion was highly significant (p = 0.001), there was no significant difference in the subjective results between the two groups, including satisfaction of the patient (p = 0.39). Twenty-three patients (92 per cent) returned to full-time employment and twenty-two (88 per cent), to sports activities. Twenty-three patients (92 per cent) reported that they had pronounced relief of pain and that the procedure had improved their quality of life. The presence of this deformity of the scaphoid after bone-grafting for a symptomatic non-union was not predictive of a poor long-term subjective outcome."}
{"id": "1389664", "title": "CT of the wrist in suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "CT of the wrist in suspected scaphoid fracture. Bone scan and sagittal projection CT of the scaphoid was performed in 10 patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures. The primary and follow-up plain radiographs were negative or equivocal for fracture. CT examination demonstrated scaphoid fracture in 7 patients and normal findings in 3. It is concluded that CT of the scaphoid can replace bone scan to diagnose or rule out fracture in institutions where nuclear medicine facilities are not available."}
{"id": "1380276", "title": "[Lesions of the distal radio-ulnar joint in compression-extension fractures of the distal extremity of the radius. Six cases with associated anterior dislocation of the ulnar head].", "content": "[Lesions of the distal radio-ulnar joint in compression-extension fractures of the distal extremity of the radius. Six cases with associated anterior dislocation of the ulnar head]. A particular course of markedly displaced wrist fracture associated with complete dislocation of the distal radio-ulnar joint and a real anterior dislocation of the ulnar head is related. In 5 other identical cases, treatment with external fixation achieved a more favourable result. These 6 cases concerning a particular type of wrist fracture, and a review of the literature, led us to suggest a potential pattern of TFCC lesions. Finally, from an anatomical classification of the ulnar compartment, we propose some therapeutic guidelines concerning the ulnar side for more common fractures."}
{"id": "1340937", "title": "[Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. Apropos of 20 cases].", "content": "[Stress fractures of the tarsal navicular. Apropos of 20 cases]. Twenty cases of tarsal navicular stress fractures were observed in 17 patients. These fractures are rare, often go unrecognized, and are reputed to unite with difficulty. A clue to diagnosis was given by the description (young athletic person in sports involving sudden starts and stops). The lesion was not always visible on X-rays of the foot in supination and dorsal flexion (only 10 out of 20 in this series). Use of tomography and tomodensitometry was essential. Treatment was based on compressing the fracture with a screw without grafting or freshening, followed by immobilization of the foot with a cast and no weight bearing for 45 days. Union occurred in 19 out of the 20 cases. Thirteen patients were able to practice their sport without a loss of performance after a period ranging from 3 to 14 months. Treatment varied given the risk of spontaneous non union: incomplete fractures discovered early often responded to orthopedic treatment; fractures associated with large intra-osseous lytic lesions required addition of bone grafting. These fractures can be prevented through the use of inner arch supports especially if a predisposing factor exists such as a short first metatarsal bone."}
{"id": "1288404", "title": "[Distal radio-ulnar joint. Traumatic and degenerative diseases].", "content": "[Distal radio-ulnar joint. Traumatic and degenerative diseases]. The distal radio-ulnar joint participates in the biomechanics of the wrist both by transmission of carpal stresses and by its role in the mobility of the wrist. Fractures of the distal radio-ulnar joint are often missed as they are frequently only a radiation of fractures of the radius to the distal radio-ulnar joint. Computed tomography is the most useful examination to assess the severity of these lesions. Distal radio-ulnar dislocations may also be associated with fractures of the radius, but usually occur in isolation. The diagnosis is difficult, as the slightest rotation on plain X-rays interferes with the evaluation criteria. A CT scan in the neutral position and in pronation and supination is the examination of choice for dislocations and subluxations, but must be interpreted according to strict criteria. In contrast, a tea of the triangular ligament can only be assessed on arthrography and the distinction between traumatic and degenerative rupture is difficult. The patient's age, the site of the perforation and the length of the ulna are important elements in the diagnostic decision. MRI appears to be a promising examination for investigation of this joint, but the quality of the images is not yet perfectly reproducible."}
{"id": "1288402", "title": "[Scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Scaphoid bone]. The scaphoid is the most important carpal bone due to the frequency of its pathological involvement. Two points of radiological anatomy are stressed: the presence of the scaphoid tubercle whose projection gives rise to the scaphoid ring, the solid radio-capitatum ligament which bridges the scaphoid. Scaphoid fracture represents 70% of all carpal bone fractures and its presence must therefore be meticulously investigated on appropriate x-rays or on tomographies or CT scans, rather than by the classical repeat examination a fortnight later. CT provides good analysis of scaphoid fragments when consolidation is delayed (pseudarthrosis), allowing earlier and more justified indications for surgery. The wrist ligaments are poorly visualised by MRI at the present time; but it allows study of the cartilage and, most importantly, is a decisive examination when there is a doubt about bone vitality."}
{"id": "1280963", "title": "[Resection of the proximal carpal bones in the sequelae of scaphoid fractures].", "content": "[Resection of the proximal carpal bones in the sequelae of scaphoid fractures]. Proximal row carpectomy has precise indications in cases of severe sequelae of scaphoid fractures. This procedure may be indicated either as first-line treatment in a case of advanced pseudarthrosis with osteoarthritis, particularly radio-scaphoid, or secondarily after scaphoid pseudarthrosis has been unsuccessfully treated by other methods. It is essential to make sure that the head of the capitatum and the radial surface of the lunate bone have a satisfactory appearance on plain X-rays, MRI and occasionally arthroscopy. The overall results of this operation which retains wrist movements and which also preserves a good grip strength are very encouraging, as demonstrated by the series of 48 cases of sequelae of scAphoid fractures treated by this technique."}
{"id": "2061670", "title": "Tumourous deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the wrist. A case report.", "content": "Tumourous deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the wrist. A case report. A 63-year-old man had a tumourous deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the palmar aspect of the wrist. Traumatic micro-fracture or osteoarthritis was thought to have triggered the deposition of these crystals. It should be possible to differentiate the lesion clinically and radiologically from tumoural calcinosis, in which the deposits consist of calcium carbonate and/or calcium phosphate."}
{"id": "2055574", "title": "[Hypersupination dislocation of the distal radio-ulnar joint after distal radius fracture].", "content": "[Hypersupination dislocation of the distal radio-ulnar joint after distal radius fracture]. Following an intraarticular distal radius fracture of the scaphoid, scapholunate dissociation and fracture of the ulnar styloid process without dislocation, the distal radius fracture healed with rotational deformity. In the course of conservative treatment, a dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint in locked hypersupination developed. Due to the locked rotational deformity, standard X-rays were difficult to assess. Only with the help of a CAT-scan, were the authors able to visualize the distal radioulnar joint dislocation and later control the postoperative result."}
{"id": "2055572", "title": "[Computerized tomography after surgical management of scaphoid fractures and pseudarthroses with implants in place. Method and results in 15 cases].", "content": "[Computerized tomography after surgical management of scaphoid fractures and pseudarthroses with implants in place. Method and results in 15 cases]. Fifteen patients having undergone open reduction and internal fixation for scaphoid fractures were later examined by computer tomography. Herbert-screws were used in nine cases and Ender-plates in four. In two cases, Ender-plates replaced a small fragment AO-screw as well as one Herbert-screw. Computer tomography of the wrist is not indicated on a routine basis, but whenever standard X-rays are unable to determine whether surgically treated fractures have healed or nonunion has been established. Patient cooperation is of utmost importance, if artifacts due to patient movement are to be avoided. To minimize implant artifacts, axial and radio-ulnar sections are employed; palmar-dorsal sections are advantageous whenever Ender-plates are involved."}
{"id": "2037637", "title": "Computed tomography of the hand and wrist.", "content": "Computed tomography of the hand and wrist. CT plays a limited but distinct role in the evaluation of the hand and wrist. It is most useful in assessing bone and joint anatomy and has only a secondary role in soft tissue abnormalities. The clearest value of CT is in assessing trauma and post-traumatic complications, such as malunion, nonunion, or avascular necrosis, where careful attention to position and technique can yield important information not otherwise obtainable."}
{"id": "2011836", "title": "[Diagnosis of arthritis with the aid of imaging methods].", "content": "[Diagnosis of arthritis with the aid of imaging methods]. Among imaging techniques plain radiographs still play an outstanding role in the assessment of osteoarthrosis. Main diagnostic features comprise joint space narrowing (often segmental in the initial phase), subchondral sclerosis and cyst formation (both predominantly in the stressed area of the joint), and osteophytes at areas of low stress, often at joint margins. Anatomy and stress characteristics of the joint involved decide upon pattern and extent of the degenerative changes. The most common sites of osteoarthrosis include the interphalangeal joints, often in combination with the first carpometacarpal and trapezio-scaphoid joints, hip, knee, and first metatarsophalangeal joint of the foot. For assessment of these easily accessible joints, conventional radiographic techniques usually provide sufficient information. In special situations where differential diagnostics are important, methods such as computerized tomography or scintigraphy may prove very helpful. In the hands of experienced users ultrasonography is able to depict accompanying soft tissue changes such as rotator cuff ruptures or cysts. Magnetic resonance imaging represents a promising tool for detection of very early osteoarthrosis; small areas of cartilage damage can be assessed adequately. Although this method will certainly give new insight into aspects of early degenerative disease, its use is still confined to research-oriented applications with respect to osteoarthrosis."}
{"id": "1940172", "title": "Computed analyses of the pathomechanics of scaphoid waist nonunions.", "content": "Computed analyses of the pathomechanics of scaphoid waist nonunions. The computed tomography scans of both the injured and the normal wrists of nine patients with a scaphoid nonunion of 5 to 120 months' duration were used to create three-dimensional computer models. When the computer images of the normal and the contralateral fractured scaphoids were superimposed, it was possible to calculate the volume of bone that was lost as a result of the injury and its failure to heal, as well as the angular relationship of the fracture components to one another. The amount of the scaphoid bone that was lost varied from 6% to 15% of bone volume and did not show a linear correlation with the duration of the nonunion. The configuration of the missing bone was consistent and exhibited a prismatic shape whose base is quadrilateral and faces palmarly. The proximal scaphoid fracture component is extended, radially deviated, and supinated in relation to its distal fracture component. The consistent fracture deformity and the configuration of the bony defect in the scaphoid waist nonunions should be helpful in the understanding and treatment of the condition."}
{"id": "1936051", "title": "Registration and display of the combined bone scan and radiograph in the diagnosis and management of wrist injuries.", "content": "Registration and display of the combined bone scan and radiograph in the diagnosis and management of wrist injuries. A system has been developed for the registration and combined display of the X-ray image and isotope bone scan. This system has been evaluated by prospectively studying 23 patients who were referred for suspected injury of the wrist. The registration system has an inherent precision for registration of about 1 mm. When patient positioning errors are included, this increases to about 4 mm. Two observers evaluated the sets of images prior to registration and after registration and combined display. They judged that in 16 out of 17 cases judged abnormal (observer 1) and 12 out of 18 cases judged abnormal (observer 2), the registration technique improved localization of a lesion. One case was rejected as registration was not possible due to incorrect positioning of the hand."}
{"id": "1916662", "title": "Bone loss after liver transplantation.", "content": "Bone loss after liver transplantation. We studied 35 adult patients (mean age = 43 yr) referred for orthotopic liver transplantation. Spinal bone mineral density was measured by quantitative computed tomography scanning before transplantation (n = 35) and at 3 mo (n = 21) and 12 mo (n = 11) after orthotopic liver transplantation. The readings were corrected to age 50 yr, using the regression equations derived from normal control subjects. Quantitative bone histological studies were performed in 17 patients before orthotopic liver transplantation and 3 mo after orthotopic liver transplantation. Before orthotopic liver transplantation, the corrected spinal bone mineral density in men was 108 +/- 20 mg/cm3, less than in male control subjects (129 +/- 22 mg/cm3, p less than 0.005). In women patients the value was 117 +/- 27 mg/cm3, and in female control subjects 126 +/- 19 mg/cm3 (NS). However, women patients with primary biliary cirrhosis had lower spinal bone mineral density (106.5 +/- 14.8) than female control subjects (p less than 0.005). Histologically, the resorbing surface was near the normal mean, whereas the osteoblast surface, tetracycline surface and bone formation rate was lower in men (p less than 0.05) but not women. Spinal bone mineral density decreased by 24% in the first 3 mo after orthotopic liver transplantation with no further decrease at 12 mo. Five patients had vertebral fractures within 6 mo of orthotopic liver transplantation. One patient fractured a wrist and three had osteonecrosis of the hip or knee.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1913380", "title": "The natural history of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "The natural history of suspected scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "1868390", "title": "The natural history of suspected scaphoid fractures.", "content": "The natural history of suspected scaphoid fractures. Clinically suspected scaphoid fractures are common injuries. The authors prospectively followed up, by serial radiography and bone scanning, 23 patients who had a history of trauma to the carpus and associated localized tenderness to the anatomic \"snuff box\": in 15 patients the radiographs and bone scans were negative; in 5 the radiograph was equivocal and the bone scan positive. The authors concluded that patients with clinically suspected scaphoid fractures and negative radiographs can be treated symptomatically without immobilization in a cast. Patients with equivocal radiographs should be assumed to have a fractured scaphoid and treated accordingly."}
{"id": "1861032", "title": "Analysis of scaphoid fracture displacement by three-dimensional computed tomography.", "content": "Analysis of scaphoid fracture displacement by three-dimensional computed tomography. Scaphoid fracture displacement was studied in twenty-five patients using three-dimensional computed tomography. Fracture displacement was more readily detected and distinct in three-dimensional computed tomography images than in plain radiography. Two different types of offset of the distal fragment with respect to the proximal fragment are described on three dimensional computed tomography; volar type and dorsal type. In the volar type, the distal fragment overhung in the volar direction relative to the proximal fragment and was frequently accompanied by humpback deformity and axial rotation. In the dorsal type, the distal fragment slipped dorsal on the proximal fragment and was commonly accompanied by humpback deformity. The volar type had a transverse or vertical fracture line on both the volar and dorsal surfaces of the scaphoid, while the dorsal type had a horizontal fracture line. The volar type was frequently found when the fracture was distal, whereas the dorsal type was noted more frequently for proximally located fracture."}
{"id": "1808682", "title": "[Diagnosis of carpal bone fractures].", "content": "[Diagnosis of carpal bone fractures]. The diagnosis of carpal bone fractures has been facilitated by new radiological projections and by the advent of modern imaging methods. Fractures of the scaphoid bone still account for 75% of carpal fractures with their complications (pseudarthrosis, malunion) and their sequelae of arthrosis. However, the frequency of other fractures appears to be increasing due to a better knowledge of their mechanism and to the possibilities of the new imaging methods."}
{"id": "1806504", "title": "Diagnostic value of ultrasound in scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Diagnostic value of ultrasound in scaphoid fractures. Diagnostic ultrasound was used in 103 patients with a clinically suspected fracture of the scaphoid bone in order to achieve an early diagnosis. There were 48 women and 55 men aged 10-75 years (mean 31.4 years) tested with ultrasound. Of the patients, 72 were tested within 3 days after injury the remainder between 4 and 42 days. Fracture was confirmed radiologically in 27. We found that the ultrasound test, applied with a frequency of 1 MHz and intensity of 0.5 W/cm2 and 2.0 W/cm2 for 30s, had a sensitivity of 37 per cent and a specificity of 61 per cent. We thus conclude that ultrasound is not suitable for early diagnosis of scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "1787907", "title": "A rare combination of fractures of the upper extremities: a diagnostic problem.", "content": "A rare combination of fractures of the upper extremities: a diagnostic problem. The rare case is reported of fractures concurrently of the bilateral proximal radius and the right proximal carpal row. Initial radiographs of the patient showed only fractures in the bilateral proximal radius and the right triquetral bone. In addition, the bone scan showed focal increased uptake in the right scaphoid bone and lunate bone as well, suggesting fractures. Fractures of the entire right proximal row were confirmed by computer tomography. The patient received functional treatment for the elbows and had a scaphoid plaster-of-Paris cast for the wrist. This resulted in a complete recovery after one year."}
{"id": "1784503", "title": "Central pain and thalamic hyperactivity: a single photon emission computerized tomographic study.", "content": "Central pain and thalamic hyperactivity: a single photon emission computerized tomographic study. Five patients with central post-stroke pain (CPSP) accepted to be studied according to the following paradigm: a single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) using [123I]N-isopropyl-iodoamphetamine (IMP) was made in each patient 20 min following i.v. injection of IMP; during this time, the patients were stimulated in order to reproduce their spontaneous pain. Of the five patients, two had CPSP with hyperpathia following a stroke (with a lesion on CT scan involving the thalamo-cortical pathway in one and involving the thalamus in the other); two had CPSP following a stroke in the middle cerebral artery area, without hyperpathia; and the last patient suffered pain from algodystrophia following a fracture of the wrist. In the two cases with hyperpathia, SPECT demonstrated a contralateral relative hyperactivity in a central region corresponding to the thalamic area. This was not observed in the three other patients. In the two patients with hyperpathia, a second SPECT scan with stimulation of the contralateral pain-free arm did not demonstrate any hyperactivity in the thalamic area. These results suggest that a thalamic neuronal hyperactivity may characterize some hyperpathic syndromes and, in accordance with our previous results obtained in the rat, that the loss of inhibition on medial thalamic neurons may be a main feature of hyperpathia following certain cerebral stroke syndromes."}
{"id": "1757132", "title": "Scaphoid fractures and wrist pain--time for new thinking.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures and wrist pain--time for new thinking. As with the practice of all medicine, an early accurate diagnosis is essential. The same applies after injury. The diagnosis should be made at the earliest opportunity--this should be done as soon as an appropriate expert is able to examine the patient, assess adequate radiographs and, where necessary, order special investigations such as a bone scan. By this means, distal radial fractures, injuries of the radioulna joint, dislocated lunates, Bennett's fractures, dorsal capsular wrist sprains, avulsion fractures etc. can be managed accordingly. Those patients in whom clinical examination, plain radiographs and/or bone scans show minor injuries can be advised about pain relief whilst staying active either at work or in the home using a light supportive removable bandage or splint. Where doubt remains and whilst keeping the patient comfortable, a bone scan may be requested. Its availability together with updated clinical and, if necessary, radiological assessment, will define a further group of patients who can be advised definitively either about active treatment or a return to normal activity. Only a few wrists will continue to defy definitive diagnosis requiring the continuance of expert advice and investigation. When a scaphoid fracture is diagnosed, its site, degree of displacement and any associated instability should determine the degree of intervention and the length of time required in plaster. This again gives the patient more information about the long-term future than many have had hitherto. The patient's individual requirements may be taken into account; some are happy to tolerate 2-3 months in plaster whilst others want the early function which an uncomplicated operation might offer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1757005", "title": "[Diagnosis of torsion malposition of the radius and ulna after healed distal fracture].", "content": "[Diagnosis of torsion malposition of the radius and ulna after healed distal fracture]. Assessing radial and ulnar rotational deformities quantitatively by routine diagnosis after healed distal forearm fractures is very difficult. A method to obtain information about direction and graduation of malrotation is described. This method is based on discovering topographic changes of skeletal points by CT. Rotational angles of intact forearm bones are measured on anatomic specimen and in vivo using epiphyseal and diaphyseal axes of the radius and the ulna. Normal rotation of intact forearm bones varies in a specific manner. The radius presents less variations than the ulna. A morphological index of radial and ulnar rotation is not given because of the great individuality of diaphyseal rotation. Both radii of a single individuum show a very small rotational difference. Therefore a verification of malrotation is indicated by comparison to the intact opposite radius. Higher rotational graduations on the left side have to be noted."}
{"id": "1747314", "title": "Bilateral stress fracture of the scaphoid. A case report.", "content": "Bilateral stress fracture of the scaphoid. A case report. Bilateral stress fractures of the scaphoid bones in a gymnast are reported and discussed with special consideration of the possible differential diagnoses; bipartite scaphoid and pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid bone. The relevance of the mechanical factors involved and the abduction and dorsiflexion of the wrist in gymnastics are suggested as likely pathomechanisms."}
{"id": "1745909", "title": "Radiographic evaluation of wrist trauma.", "content": "Radiographic evaluation of wrist trauma."}
{"id": "1718357", "title": "Preiser's disease.", "content": "Preiser's disease. Nine patients with the diagnosis of unilateral Preiser's disease were seen between 1970 and 1987. The mean age of four male and five female patients was 37 years (range, 20 to 70 years). The diagnosis was based on radiographic evidence of sclerosis, fragmentation, erosion, and collapse of the proximal pole of the scaphoid. Onset was usually insidious but two had a preexisting radial hypoplasia, a third had a modest scaphoid malunion, and a fourth had a recent fall. Treatment consisted of scaphoid excision and silicone rubber prosthetic replacement in three, debridement of necrotic bone fragments in one, and different periods of cast support and observation in the remaining five. No relationship to ulnar variance was seen. Mean follow-up was 6.9 years. Of the scaphoid implants, two had subluxated, but only one was painful. In the more conservatively treated group, pain and function were only modestly limiting in four, who returned to their original occupations as did the one treated by curettage of necrotic bone in the proximal pole. One patient (case 4) was severely incapacitated because of associated severe congenital anomalies of the lower extremities. Polyaxial tomography permitted a better assessment of the degree of involvement and carpal alignment. Preiser's disease is a rare affliction of the carpal scaphoid which may involve the entire bone in avascular changes but primarily leads to fragmentation and collapse of the proximal pole. A conservative approach to treatment is favored based on this experience."}
{"id": "1712170", "title": "[Cystic chondromalacia of the auricle. A case report. Review of the literature].", "content": "[Cystic chondromalacia of the auricle. A case report. Review of the literature]. Cystic chondromalacia is a clinical and histopathological entity which can be clearly distinguish from all other cystic lesions of the auricle. We report a case which was clinically asymptomatic and involved the scaphoid fossa of the anterior surface of the pinna. The pathological process consisted of degenerative changes of the auricular cartilage which produced a cavity containing a serous fluid. No etiologic factor was found, in particular no trauma. The posterior wall of the cyst was excised under local anesthesia. This case allowed us to review the clinical, histopathological features and surgical difficulties of this rare lesion."}
{"id": "1682353", "title": "Nutcracker fractures of the cuboid.", "content": "Nutcracker fractures of the cuboid. A case report is presented involving a nutcracker fracture of the cuboid and concomitant fractures of the navicular and calcaneus. A literature review of the mechanism and treatments of the nutcracker fracture is discussed. Also presented are the methods used to radiographically evaluate and surgically correct the compression fracture of the cuboid and its associated fractures."}
{"id": "2405337", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of injuries to bone and articular cartilage. Emphasis on radiographically occult abnormalities.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of injuries to bone and articular cartilage. Emphasis on radiographically occult abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has emerged as the premier noninvasive imaging method for evaluation of the musculoskeletal system. Among the most widely recognized and accepted applications of MRI is that of trauma-related imaging. While the initial emphasis on MRI was directed toward the assessment of soft-tissue structures previously difficult to image (eg, knee menisci and cruciate ligaments), it has become increasingly apparent that MRI is superbly suited to the depiction of a wide spectrum of injuries to bone and articular cartilage. MRI has proved capable of depicting abnormalities ranging from clinically innocuous bone bruises to posttraumatic osteonecrosis. Many of the abnormalities that have been detected by MRI have been radiographically occult and often clinically unsuspected. MRI has become established in the assessment of chondral and osteochondral injuries, insufficiency and stress fractures, occult proximal femoral fractures, tibial plateau fractures, and scaphoid injuries. This review will attempt to present the current state of the art with respect to the application of MRI to the assessment of injuries to bone and articular cartilage. Particular emphasis will be placed on radiographically occult abnormalities."}
{"id": "2392023", "title": "Scaphoid fractures and Kienbock's disease of the lunate: MR imaging with histopathologic correlation.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures and Kienbock's disease of the lunate: MR imaging with histopathologic correlation. Thirteen patients with scaphoid fractures and four patients with Kienbock's disease of the lunate underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prior to surgery. A total of 28 specimens had MR-histologic correlation. Biopsy specimens obtained by curettage provided pathologic correlation. MRI proved accurate in prospective evaluation of bone viability for both scaphoid fractures and Kienbock's disease. Normal marrow signal was shown to correlate with the presence of osteoid and osteocytes on light microscopy and a surface layer of fluorescence reflecting tetracycline uptake in viable bone. Decreased marrow signal corresponded to non-viable trabeculae with scant osteoid, without osteocytes and no tetracycline labeling. By virtue of its accurate identification of avascular necrosis, MRI may prove valuable in predicting prognosis for patients with scaphoid fractures and Kienbock's disease of the lunate."}
{"id": "2380517", "title": "Avascular necrosis after scaphoid fracture: a correlation of magnetic resonance imaging and histology.", "content": "Avascular necrosis after scaphoid fracture: a correlation of magnetic resonance imaging and histology. In this study 12 male patients with fractures of the middle third of the scaphoid had an magnetic resonance imaging study before open reduction and internal fixation in conjunction with bone grafting of the scaphoid. The patients' average age was 27 years (range, 17 to 37 years). At the time of surgery biopsy specimens were obtained from both the proximal and distal poles of the scaphoid. The length of time before surgery ranged from a minimum of 1 1/2 months in recently displaced fractures to a maximum of 10 years in established nonunions. Results of the biopsy showed that six patients had avascular necrosis noted in the proximal pole fragment. In three of these six patients avascular necrosis was confirmed by the absence of tetracycline labeling despite positive uptake noted in biopsy specimens from the bone graft site; the other three patients did not receive tetracycline labeling. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that all six of the patients with biopsy specimens of the proximal poles showing avascular necrosis demonstrated decreased signal intensity in the proximal pole fragment, whereas the plain radiographs demonstrated changes in the proximal pole in only three of the six patients. A decreased signal intensity from the proximal pole of the scaphoid may indicate a poor prognosis inasmuch as only three of the six patients had healing of the fracture even with bone grafting and internal fixation."}
{"id": "2367667", "title": "Dorsal lunate tilt (DISI configuration): sign of scaphoid fracture displacement.", "content": "Dorsal lunate tilt (DISI configuration): sign of scaphoid fracture displacement. Excessive dorsiflexion (dorsal tilting) of the lunate on a lateral wrist radiograph can be an important sign of carpal injury. Lunate dorsiflexion is a well-recognized sign of an intercarpal ligamentous injury pattern known as dorsal intercalated segment instability (DISI). It is less well recognized that excessive dorsal tilting of the lunate (DISI configuration) can also be produced by displacement of a scaphoid waist fracture. Since the management and prognosis of displaced scaphoid fractures may be quite different from those for nondisplaced fractures, radiologists can make an important contribution by recognizing dorsal tilting of the lunate and appreciating that it may be an important, indirect sign of scaphoid fracture displacement, which may not be directly visualized with standard wrist radiography. In this setting, computed tomography or complex motion tomography may be helpful for further evaluation of the scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "2367104", "title": "Imaging the symptomatic wrist.", "content": "Imaging the symptomatic wrist. 1. Imaging studies are useful adjuncts to clinical evaluation. 2. Conventional radiographs remain the keystone of the imaging evaluation of wrist disorders owing to their broad survey capabilities and cost-effectiveness. 3. CT and MRI are excellent to delineate process extent and to improve lesion characterization. 4. MRI and nuclear medicine provide for greater sensitivity for detection and activity of disease, but at a cost of less specificity and greater expense."}
{"id": "2366025", "title": "Evaluation of ischaemic necrosis of carpal bones by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Evaluation of ischaemic necrosis of carpal bones by magnetic resonance imaging. Nine patients with chronic pain in the wrist were examined by M.R.I. to evaluate its accuracy in the detection of ischaemic necrosis of carpal bones. In seven patients, M.R.I. confirmed scintigraphic and radiographic signs of ischaemic necrosis. In two patients with radionuclide accumulations, M.R.I. did not confirm the diagnosis: in one, M.R.I. was totally normal and in the other it showed signs of a healing scaphoid fracture. From this limited experience, M.R.I. seems to be a sensitive imaging modality which is more specific than scintigraphy."}
{"id": "2354388", "title": "Computed tomography of wrist trauma.", "content": "Computed tomography of wrist trauma. We devised a rapid and sensitive computed tomography (CT) method to assess the acutely injured wrist, healing carpal fractures and post-traumatic osteonecrosis, when the plain films offer insufficient information. The wrist is positioned in a simple reverse-L-shaped Perspex immobilizer. With the scaphoid as the center of the arc and the long axis of the distal radius as the reference 0 degrees line, sequential coronal scans of the wrist were done in 10 degrees increments in an arc of 40 degrees to give 0 degrees, 10 degrees, 20 degrees, 30 degrees and 40 degrees scans. The 0 degrees and 10 degrees arc scans were best for evaluating the distal radius and ulna and soft tissues, the 10 degrees and 20 degrees scans for the carpal bones other than the scaphoid, and their relation to each other, the 30 degrees and 40 degrees scans, parallel to the long axis of the scaphoid, for fractures of the scaphoid and the hook of the hamate. In addition the 40 degrees scan offered an excellent carpal tunnel view. In 22 patients examined for wrist trauma CT was found to be more accurate than plain films and plain-film tomography in determining the presence of a fracture (4 scaphoid and 1 distal radius), in assessing the degree of osseous union (12) and in evaluating intercarpal fusion (2). In addition CT detected avascular necrosis of the lunate in two patients and erosions of the scaphoid and distal radius attributed to rheumatoid arthritis in one."}
{"id": "2348928", "title": "Diagnostic problems of scaphoid fractures: the value of radionuclide bone scintigraphy.", "content": "Diagnostic problems of scaphoid fractures: the value of radionuclide bone scintigraphy. The diagnosis fracture of the scaphoid bone based on mere X-ray examination is unreliable. A correct diagnosis of scaphoid fractures is essential for the prevention of avascular necrosis of the proximal fragment and of pseudo-arthrosis. Thirty-three patients with a clinically suspected scaphoid fracture and a normal radiograph were examined. These patients had supplementary 99mTc-MDP scintigraphy. Eight of the 33 patients had normal scans, 12 patients had a scaphoid fracture and 17 had other fractures. Based on our findings, radionuclide bone scintigraphy is useful and accurate for the diagnosis or exclusion of fractures of the scaphoid and other carpal bones."}
{"id": "2315496", "title": "Demonstration of the scapholunate space with radiography.", "content": "Demonstration of the scapholunate space with radiography. The importance of radiographic evaluation of the scapholunate space, which should not be wider than 2 mm, has been well established in cases of wrist injury. Unfortunately, the assessment of this space is not accurately determined with routine posteroanterior (PA) radiographs, because the scaphoid and lunate bones often overlap. Moreover, the exact portion of the scapholunate space that should be measured has never been clearly defined. Nine wrists with a scapholunate space no wider than 2 mm and without chondrocalcinosis were studied by means of plain routine views and special projections, transaxial and coronal computed tomographic scans, and dissection to determine the precise orientation and anatomy of this space. A PA radiograph with 10 degrees of tube angulation from the ulna toward the radius best demonstrated the scapholunate space. This space should be measured at the level of the midportion of the flat lateral facet of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "2269775", "title": "Congenital bipartite scaphoid.", "content": "Congenital bipartite scaphoid. A case of bilateral congenital bipartite scaphoid followed from early ossification of the scaphoid to skeletal maturity is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging was shown to be helpful in differentiating this condition from traumatic pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid. The history of this rare anomaly is discussed."}
{"id": "2268762", "title": "Real-time digital contrast enhancement and magnification in the assessment of scaphoid and other wrist injuries.", "content": "Real-time digital contrast enhancement and magnification in the assessment of scaphoid and other wrist injuries. A study on the value of a commercially available desk-top digital magnifier-contrast enhancer (DETECT System) was made in a series of 550 patients presenting with an acute wrist injury. Four radiologists, of varying experience, independently reviewed the radiographs on a conventional lightbox and later with the digitizer. In the scaphoid series (350 cases), the performance of the two more experienced radiologists was marginally better with the digitizer, whereas the less experienced radiologists performed slightly worse. Overall the digitizer improved the confidence of the radiologists in diagnosing correctly the presence of a scaphoid fracture but, for the less experienced radiologists, this was at the expense of identifying normality. In the wrist series (200 cases), the use of the digitizer resulted in a minor increase in the true positive and decrease in the false negative observations, but this was offset by a concomitant minor increase in the false positive and decrease in the true negative categories. Evaluation of the soft-tissue planes around the wrist joint showed a limited value in the identification of a scaphoid fracture with an overall positive predictive value of 0.26. Correlation of soft-tissue changes and the presence or absence of a scaphoid fracture was slightly worse with the digitizer. Possible causes for the apparently poorer performance of the digitizer are discussed, as well as the relative merits and potential value of the unit."}
{"id": "2228362", "title": "Isolated fractures of the capitate: use of nuclear medicine as an aid to diagnosis.", "content": "Isolated fractures of the capitate: use of nuclear medicine as an aid to diagnosis. Fractures of the capitate are considered to be uncommon injuries of the wrist, however, delay in diagnosis may result in prolonged disability and avascular necrosis. Two cases are reported in which an isolated fracture of the capitate was diagnosed with a 99mTc-MDP nuclear medicine bone scan and confirmed with CT scan or repeated conventional x-rays. These two cases illustrate that an isolated fracture of the capitate should be considered in an individual presenting with persistent wrist pain of traumatic origin, even when conventional x-ray views are negative. The nuclear medicine bone scan can be a useful investigative tool and serve to guide further radiological investigations."}
{"id": "2217754", "title": "[Computed tomography of the wrist].", "content": "[Computed tomography of the wrist]. CT is a diagnostic tool that allows imaging of the wrist, wrist joint and distal radioulnar joint in the axial plane without superimposition. The differentiation of bone, joint space and soft tissue is possible in a single examination. This is helpful in the diagnosis of traumatic, degenerative or malignant lesions of bones together with the soft tissue reactions. Further information can be obtained by means of three-dimensional reconstructions."}
{"id": "2211858", "title": "Fractures and ligamentous injuries of the wrist.", "content": "Fractures and ligamentous injuries of the wrist. Rapid diagnosis, appropriate management, and sport-specific rehabilitation are important in the management of any wrist injury in the athlete. The addition of technetium scans, CT, arthroscopy, and MRI in the evaluation of the athlete's wrist has provided valuable and powerful diagnostic tools. The versatility and relatively low invasiveness of arthroscopic intervention and the subsequent early return to activity make this technique especially attractive in the high-performance athlete. Suspicion of potential injuries, complete knowledge of wrist mechanics and anatomy, and a careful physical examination are still the most important tools in the evaluation of wrist injury. It is important to approach each athlete in a patient-oriented manner, taking into account the fact that many of these injuries have the potential to be career ending. Treatment that will provide the best possible long-term wrist function must be the physician's ultimate goal. In addition, the importance of appropriate and activity-specific rehabilitation cannot be overemphasized."}
{"id": "2105027", "title": "Is MR better than arthrography for evaluating the ligaments of the wrist? In vitro study.", "content": "Is MR better than arthrography for evaluating the ligaments of the wrist? In vitro study. The purpose of this study was to determine the relative merits of MR imaging and three-compartment digital arthrography in the assessment of carpal ligaments in vitro. We performed MR imaging and arthrography in 10 normal wrists of fresh cadavers ranging in age from 48 to 71 years, and compared the appearance of the interosseous ligaments and triangular fibrocartilage complex with findings on anatomic sections of the joints. In six of the specimens, relatively T1-weighted MR images, 800/20 (TR/TE), preceded three-compartment digital arthrography performed with standard contrast material. In the other four specimens, arthrography, using an MR solution of iodinated contrast material mixed with cupric sulfate and gelatin, was performed before MR imaging. This was done to mimic the intraarticular fluid that might be seen in an injured wrist. MR allowed accurate assessment of the triangular fibrocartilage complex and scapholunate ligament in eight of 10 cases. Consistent MR visualization of the lunotriquetral ligament was difficult. Three-compartment digital arthrography allowed accurate assessment of the triangular fibrocartilage complex and scapholunate and lunotriquetral ligaments in all 10 cases. We concluded that MR is useful but inferior to arthrography in the evaluation of interosseous ligaments and the triangular fibrocartilage complex."}
{"id": "1983635", "title": "[Treatment of distal radius fracture--diagnosis and therapy of local concomitant injuries].", "content": "[Treatment of distal radius fracture--diagnosis and therapy of local concomitant injuries]. In a high percentage the accompanying local injuries in Colles' type fractures of the distal radius are related to lesions of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) and the distal radioulnar joint (DRUG). Frequency and importance of these local injuries concerning the long-term result after distal radius fractures are described and diagnostic and therapeutical proceedings are presented."}
{"id": "2780330", "title": "[The effect of inactivity-induced osteoporosis on the scintigraphic image of bone lesions of the wrist].", "content": "[The effect of inactivity-induced osteoporosis on the scintigraphic image of bone lesions of the wrist]. In addition to its established oncological indications the sensitivity of bone scintigraphy is of steadily increasing significance in traumatology. Inactivity-induced osteoporosis plays a major role during the immobilization period in the plaster cast. In the region of the joints remodelling intensity may reach such a high level that the non-injured bone shows a higher rate of accumulation than the fracture. This process already begins between the third and fourth week of immobilization. The highest uptake is found after fracture of the scaphoid bone at the end of twelve weeks of immobilization. Control scintigraphies at intervals of several days are indicated to differentiate between various clinical conditions (pseudoarthrosis, activated osteoarthrosis, algodystrophy in case of doubtful x-ray results)."}
{"id": "2777848", "title": "Fracture of the hook of the hamate.", "content": "Fracture of the hook of the hamate. We removed the fracture fragment from fifty-nine patients who had an isolated fracture of the hook of the hamate. Preoperatively, all had complained of pain and tenderness on the ulnar side of the palm or on the dorsal ulnar aspect of the wrist. Most fractures were thought to have occurred while the patient was swinging a racquet, golf club, or baseball bat. Some fractures were caused by striking the palm on a solid object, by falling on the palm, or by a crush injury to the hand. Most of the fractures were diagnosed conclusively on a carpal tunnel roentgenogram or on a special oblique roentgenogram of the wrist supinated. We now believe that computed axial tomography is the best imaging technique for demonstrating this fracture. Except for two patients who had a crush injury, all of the patients returned to their regular occupational and athletic pursuits. There were no surgical complications."}
{"id": "2767538", "title": "[Indications for computerized tomography of the wrist joint and carpal bones].", "content": "[Indications for computerized tomography of the wrist joint and carpal bones]. Twenty-nine patients with thirty-one fractures of the distal radius and persistent pain or disability had computed tomography of the radio-carpal and distal radioulnar joint. We found incongruity of the distal radio-ulnar joint in six patients. Ten patients had a rotational malalignment in supination. Seven patients suffered from rotational malalignment in pronation. The ability to quantify rotational malalignment and to have images of the degenerative arthritis following these disorders without superimposition aids in selecting surgical treatment."}
{"id": "2763950", "title": "Occult fractures of the carpals and metacarpals: demonstration by CT.", "content": "Occult fractures of the carpals and metacarpals: demonstration by CT. Occult fractures of the carpals and metacarpals occur frequently and are associated with major disability. The cross-sectional display and superior resolution of CT are well suited to the demonstration of these fractures. Sixteen patients with pain and negative conventional radiographs were chosen for further evaluation by CT. Imaging was performed in two planes and showed 21 fractures. The transaxial plane was the most revealing imaging plane. Coronal imaging was equal or superior to the transaxial plane in most fractures of the scaphoid, lunate, capitate, and pisiform bones and of the bases of the metacarpal bones. The direct sagittal plane was the best imaging plane in one patient with fractures of the scaphoid and lunate bones. After discovery of the fracture on CT, surgical removal of the avulsed fracture fragment was recommended in seven patients and fusion was recommended in three. Eight patients had a marked decrease in pain after the surgical procedure. The accuracy of CT for the demonstration of occult fractures may result in earlier recognition of these fractures and a reduction in the associated disability."}
{"id": "2717769", "title": "Direct coronal CT of the scaphoid bone.", "content": "Direct coronal CT of the scaphoid bone. A simple technique is described for the acquisition of coronal computed tomographic images of the wrist without positioning or immobilizing devices. The technique was used in four cases in which the radiographs were equivocal, to assess healing after scaphoid bone fracture or grafting. The greater resolution of the images provided more definitive information about healing."}
{"id": "2712988", "title": "Scaphoid tubercle tenderness: a better indicator of scaphoid fractures?", "content": "Scaphoid tubercle tenderness: a better indicator of scaphoid fractures? Tenderness in the anatomical snuff box (ASB) has long been accepted as an indicator of a possible scaphoid fracture. The longitudinal axis of the scaphoid lies in an anteroposterior plane, perpendicular to the remainder of the carpal bones, in the radially deviated wrist. The scaphoid tubercle can therefore be easily and accurately palpated on the palmar aspect of the radially deviated wrist. This study was devised to determine if tenderness over the scaphoid tubercle (ST) was superior to ASB tenderness in identifying definite fractures. Over a 10-month period 246 patients were seen who were suspected of having a scaphoid injury. Thirty (12%) were eventually proven to have definite fracture. Tenderness in the ASB had a sensitivity rate of 90% (95% confidence limits 80-100%) and specificity of 40% (33-47%) as an indicator of a definite fracture. ST tenderness had a sensitivity of 87% (75-99%) and specificity of 57% (50-64%). There is therefore no significant difference in the sensitivity between ASB and ST tenderness but ST tenderness is significantly more specific. However, the presence of either ASB or ST tenderness should be used in order to identify all fractures. Patients with neither ASB nor ST tenderness require symptomatic treatment only."}
{"id": "2707656", "title": "[Computerized tomography of the hand: examination technic, normal anatomy, indications].", "content": "[Computerized tomography of the hand: examination technic, normal anatomy, indications]. The results of 480 computed tomograms carried out in the hand are presented. The digital slice imaging technique shows following advantages: a) Imaging of the complex carpus without superimposition giving a better understanding of carpal biomechanics. b) Anatomically exact imaging of the soft tissues determined by density analysis. In the following states relevant information can be obtained by CT of the hand: 1. Posttraumatic states of the carpus such as scaphoid non-union, lunato-malacia in stages I and II, complex fracture dislocations, and carpal instabilities; 2. cystic transformation of the bone; 3. non-idiopathic CTS; 4. clinically unequivocal soft-tissue masses. In our institution conventional tomography has been largely replaced by carpal CT within a progressive diagnostic programme. Today CT is the best method for imaging soft-tissue masses of the hand."}
{"id": "2701880", "title": "Fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Fractures of the scaphoid. We may think that we know all we need to know about fractures of the scaphoid. The reverse is true. Most of what we have been taught (and which we therefore believe we know) is unproved and much of it is actually untrue. Many of the key questions about diagnosis and management remain unanswered."}
{"id": "2688677", "title": "CT of the wrist for the evaluation of traumatic injuries.", "content": "CT of the wrist for the evaluation of traumatic injuries. Computed tomography (CT) of the wrist can help evaluate many types of posttraumatic injuries, particularly bony trauma. Most wrist fractures can be diagnosed with routine radiography, but problematic cases and complicated healing fractures can be difficult to evaluate with conventional radiography. CT provides improved contrast resolution and multiplanar imaging. The results of complex healing fractures and fusion procedures can be facilitated with CT. Even in the face of advanced osteoporosis CT can delineate bone edges and detect small areas of bony fusion. The degree of bone graft assimilation can be determined with CT. Unlike conventional radiography, metal fixation pins and cast material do not obviate diagnostic exams with CT. Certain posttraumatic complications such as distal radioulnar joint incongruity and hypertrophy of Lister's tubercle can be detected with axial CT images. Complicated cases of retained foreign bodies can be evaluated with CT. The high-contrast resolution of CT allows precise localization of foreign bodies and can define anatomic relationships to adjacent vital structures such as joints, tendons, and carpal tunnel. Postarthrography CT of the wrist is an investigational tool that permits direct visualization of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC). Complete and partial tears of the TFCC can be evaluated with postarthrography CT. Ulnar capsular tears and disruptions of interosseous ligaments can also be evaluated with this technique. The exact role of postarthrography CT of the wrist, however, is uncertain at this point. Three-dimensional CT is receiving increasing interest and may eventually help the understanding of wrist pathomechanics and kinematics. In summary, CT of the wrist can be instrumental in evaluating complicated posttraumatic injuries of the wrist and has certain advantages over routine radiography."}
{"id": "2687282", "title": "Fractures and non-unions of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "Fractures and non-unions of the carpal scaphoid."}
{"id": "2672081", "title": "Diagnostic imaging of upper extremity trauma.", "content": "Diagnostic imaging of upper extremity trauma. The radiologic evaluation of upper extremity trauma relies primarily on standard as well as optional radiographic projections. Certain injuries are more fully evaluated with fluoroscopy, arthrography, ultrasound, computed tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging. The imaging approach to upper extremity trauma is presented, with emphasis on subtle or commonly overlooked lesions. The indications for evaluation by fluoroscopy, arthrography, and advanced imaging modalities are discussed."}
{"id": "2600698", "title": "Occult scaphoid fracture: a diagnostic enigma.", "content": "Occult scaphoid fracture: a diagnostic enigma. In a prospective study, 38 patients with so-called \"wrist sprains\" and a clinical nonradiological diagnosis of scaphoid fracture were immobilized in a plaster cast for 2 weeks. At 2 weeks, six patients were found to have a complete fracture of the scaphoid through the waist. In view of this high incidence (15.8%) of occult scaphoid fracture, it is once again suggested that all cases of wrist sprains where scaphoid fracture is suspected be immobilized for a 2-week period."}
{"id": "2584501", "title": "Forty degree angled coronal CT scanning of scaphoid fractures through plaster and fiberglass casts.", "content": "Forty degree angled coronal CT scanning of scaphoid fractures through plaster and fiberglass casts. A method for obtaining coronal CT scans angled 40 degrees to the longitudinal axis of the wrist, parallel to the long axis of the scaphoid, is described. Its potential for evaluating scaphoid fractures is assessed in 10 patients with healing or clinically suspected fractures. Overlapping 3 mm thick angled coronal CT scans were obtained for each patient both in and out of cast. The CT images were compared to plain films and tomography. Comparisons were also made of CT images obtained through fiberglass and plaster casts. All fractures apparent by plain films and tomography were apparent by CT; one case suspected of fracture on initial plain films showed no evidence of fracture on CT and subsequent clinical course and plain films. Osseous union of healing fractures was more reliably assessed on CT than on plain films and plain film tomography. There was no degradation of CT images by either fiberglass or plaster casts; fiberglass casts allowed easy planning of tomographic slices from scout films. We conclude that direct 40 degree angled coronal CT examination of the scaphoid is a quick reliable method to detect scaphoid fractures and to assess their healing without the need of cast removal."}
{"id": "3390770", "title": "New clinical test for fracture of the scaphoid.", "content": "New clinical test for fracture of the scaphoid. The authors noted that in patients with scaphoid fractures pronation of the affected wrist followed by ulnar deviation produces pain in the anatomic snuff box that is not present in those without a scaphoid fracture. They therefore evaluated this test prospectively in 73 patients. The test gave a 52% positive predictive value and a 100% negative predictive value. They recommend that the test may be used with confidence in the emergency department to exclude a scaphoid fracture in patients with clinical features suggesting scaphoid injury but a normal x-ray film. Use of this test would reduce the number of patients whose wrists are needlessly immobilized in a scaphoid cast."}
{"id": "3383159", "title": "Three-dimensional surface reconstruction of the carpal bones from CT scans: transaxial versus coronal technique.", "content": "Three-dimensional surface reconstruction of the carpal bones from CT scans: transaxial versus coronal technique. Computer methods for reconstruction of three-dimensional (3-D) images from standard CT scans have been developed. The process does not require special computer knowledge and can be performed with a unmodified CT scanner. 3-D images are especially valuable for conveying information to nonradiologist physicians, who are unfamiliar with the numerous slice-format images produced in a standard CT examination. The utility of these methods for clarification of areas of complex skeletal anatomy has been previously demonstrated in the literature. We performed 3-D imaging on a normal isolated cadaver hand and on a patient with scaphoid fracture. In both cases the 3-D images obtained had excellent osseous anatomical detail. A method of acquisition of high quality wrist CT scans, suitable for 3-D processing, is suggested."}
{"id": "3354113", "title": "[Healing time for fractures of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Healing time for fractures of the scaphoid bone]."}
{"id": "3260727", "title": "Spontaneous osteonecrosis of the tarsal navicular in adults: imaging findings.", "content": "Spontaneous osteonecrosis of the tarsal navicular in adults: imaging findings. We encountered five otherwise healthy adults with alterations of the tarsal navicular bone compatible with spontaneous osteonecrosis. Four women had bilateral involvement and one man had unilateral involvement. The patients were 23-71 years old. The disorder was initially described by Mueller and Weiss and should not be confused with Koehler disease (osteochondrosis of the tarsal navicular in children). This group of patients was compared with five other patients (29-74 years old) with similar radiographic and clinical changes in whom an underlying disease (rheumatoid arthritis, renal failure, trauma, and lupus erythematosus) associated with osteonecrosis was known. Routine radiography in both groups defined characteristic abnormalities of the navicular bone (decreased size, a comma-shaped configuration, increased radiodensity, fragmentation, and medial or medial and dorsal osseous protrusion). MR in three patients confirmed alterations consistent with osteonecrosis. Three of the patients without underlying disease had bilateral involvement on plain films, with flat feet and hindfoot valgus deformity, leading to local pain and deformity. In a fourth patient, bilateral distribution was documented by MR as marrow alterations. Although no certain pathogenic explanation for spontaneous osteonecrosis of the tarsal navicular is known, trauma and chronic stress changes caused by physiologic pressure on the medial longitudinal arch in hindfoot valgus and increased tension forces of the plantar aponeurosis during weight-bearing (in pes planus) may be important. Discrimination of primary from secondary osteonecrosis of the tarsal navicular bone is not possible by radiologic means alone, although bilateral distribution, particularly in women, favors the diagnosis of spontaneous disease."}
{"id": "3257298", "title": "Fractures of the scaphoid bone. How to handle this common wrist injury.", "content": "Fractures of the scaphoid bone. How to handle this common wrist injury. A combination of forces makes the scaphoid bone susceptible to fracture. The common mechanism of trauma is a force applied to the palmar aspect of the wrist while it is in extreme dorsiflexion. Because early fracture diagnosis by x-ray study is difficult, all patients with a suspicious wrist injury and tenderness in the scaphoid region should be treated as if they have a fracture until radiographs at two and four weeks are normal. Treatment usually consists of immobilization using a long or short plaster arm cast. Various treatment methods, including electrical stimulation, are used when nonunion occurs. It is important to remember that patients are mainly concerned with results, not means, as long as such means are fast, safe, and minimally disabling."}
{"id": "3253834", "title": "[Fractures and pseudarthroses of the carpal scaphoid. Type II, III and IV fractures of the median section. Diagnosis, therapeutic indications and assessment of the results].", "content": "[Fractures and pseudarthroses of the carpal scaphoid. Type II, III and IV fractures of the median section. Diagnosis, therapeutic indications and assessment of the results]."}
{"id": "3189662", "title": "Delayed unions and nonunions of stress fractures in athletes.", "content": "Delayed unions and nonunions of stress fractures in athletes. From 1971 to 1985, 369 athletes presented to us with stress fractures. Of these patients, 10% (37) were treated for development of delayed unions or nonunions. Twenty-seven of the patients were male and 10 were female. Their mean age was 23.1 years (range, 17 to 39). About half of the athletes were involved in endurance sports. The diagnostic criteria for a delayed union or nonunion were clinical and radiological evidence. There was a diagnostic delay of about 3.5 months in the series. Plain radiographs, tomography, and isotope scans were used in the diagnosis. Special radiographic views were also used. In 15 cases (10 hallux sesamoid bone fractures, 1 midtibial shaft fracture, 1 metatarsal V base fracture, 1 tarsal navicular fracture, 1 olecranon fracture, and 1 proximal tibial shaft fracture) nonoperative treatment was used. Operative treatment was used 22 times (5 sesamoid fractures, 5 midtibial fractures, 5 metatarsal V base fractures, 3 tarsal navicular fractures, 3 olecranon fractures, and 1 proximal tibial shaft fracture). Results were good or excellent in 32 cases (86.5%), moderate in 4 cases, and poor in 1 case."}
{"id": "3169970", "title": "99Tcm-MDP bone scanning of injuries of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "99Tcm-MDP bone scanning of injuries of the carpal scaphoid. Clinical injuries of the carpal scaphoid are frequently seen at accident and emergency departments. Some exhibit delayed radiographic visualization of a fracture. The radioisotope bone scan is a sensitive test and increased uptake is observed in healing fractures. Twenty-three patients with an initial diagnosis of clinical fractures of the scaphoid were studied clinically, radiologically and independently by 99Tcm-MDP isotope scans. Three-quarters of the patients required only 1 month's management. Their corresponding bone scans were normal or not suggestive of a fracture. The remaining 25 per cent, who clinically required a more prolonged treatment (greater than or equal to 5 weeks' immobilization), were noted independently to have positive scans whether a fracture was observed or not. It is concluded that there is a stronger correlation between clinical examination and a bone scan than with a standard radiographic examination. It is proposed that patients still tender at 3 weeks should have a carpal isotope bone scan to identify if there is an important wrist injury and appropriate treatment commenced."}
{"id": "3133034", "title": "Clinical carpal scaphoid injuries.", "content": "Clinical carpal scaphoid injuries."}
{"id": "3132266", "title": "Clinical carpal scaphoid injuries.", "content": "Clinical carpal scaphoid injuries."}
{"id": "3044380", "title": "Ultrasound assessment of the suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Ultrasound assessment of the suspected scaphoid fracture. A prospective study of 111 patients thought to have sustained a recent scaphoid fracture on clinical grounds but who were radiologically negative was undertaken over a period of 7 months. All such patients were subjected to ultrasound scanning within a week of their injury under double blind conditions. All patients were re-X-rayed 2-3 weeks after their injury. The authors' results suggest that ultrasonic diagnosis of the possibly fractured scaphoid is unreliable."}
{"id": "2964829", "title": "Skeletal scintigraphy of the wrist in suggested scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Skeletal scintigraphy of the wrist in suggested scaphoid fracture. Skeletal scintigraphy was performed in 187 patients with clinical suspicion of a scaphoid fracture but with normal radiographic findings. In 85 patients focally moderately (12 patients) or markedly to intensely (73 patients) increased radionuclide uptake was seen, over either the distal radius or carpal bones. A fracture corresponding to markedly increased uptake was eventually verified in 15 out of 26 patients in the distal radius, in 21 out of 28 in the scaphoid but in only 6 out of 18 in other carpal bones. One fracture of the body and one of the hook of the hamate were found, one fracture of the capitate and three of the triquetrum. Not a single fracture was verified in 10 patients with markedly, often intensely, increased activity over the trapezium/trapezoid. It is concluded that scintigraphy is of value in carpal trauma not only to exclude scaphoid fracture but also to direct the attention to the possibility of other carpal fractures, otherwise usually missed."}
{"id": "2832895", "title": "[Radiologic diagnosis following compound fracture of the distal radius with special reference to computed tomography].", "content": "[Radiologic diagnosis following compound fracture of the distal radius with special reference to computed tomography]. After complicated distal radius fractures with persistent symptoms, a variety of radiological methods may be indicated, including plain films, magnification views, examination under stress and arthrography. CT accurately differentiates abnormalities of the distal radio-ulnar joint and aids in deciding on surgical treatment. Demonstration of degenerative changes and of subluxations is much more satisfactory in the third plane, since there is no superimposition."}
{"id": "3823428", "title": "Wrist: coronal and transaxial CT scanning.", "content": "Wrist: coronal and transaxial CT scanning. Computed tomography (CT) of the wrist can be useful in selected clinical applications and is generally performed in the transaxial orientation. Coronal and transaxial CT scanning of the wrist were directly compared in three patients and in a normal, isolated cadaveric hand. Twenty other patients with wrist problems who underwent only transaxial or coronal CT examinations were also considered to assess the clinical indications of both techniques. A simple Lucite holder was designed and tested to simplify patient positioning with the coronal CT technique. In most clinical situations, coronal images were superior to transaxial images because the former were more detailed and easier to interpret. In some specific cases, however, especially fracture of the hamate hook and distal radioulnar subluxation, transaxial CT scanning was superior."}
{"id": "3818807", "title": "Fractures of the carpus, excluding the scaphoid.", "content": "Fractures of the carpus, excluding the scaphoid. Carpal bone fractures comprise an important group of injuries that present difficulties in both diagnosis and treatment. These fractures may be missed for the following reasons: physician's low index of suspicion, the carpal bones' irregular contours and degree of overlap on radiographs making the fractures difficult to visualize, and the common occurrence of concomitant fractures of neighboring metacarpals, distal radius, or scaphoid, which misdirects the examiner. A high index of suspicion with careful clinical examination and elicitation of point tenderness is key to making the correct diagnosis (Fig. 14). Swelling, loss of motion, deformity, and crepitus are often minimal and are not reliable in distinguishing carpal fractures. Specific radiographic projections, tomograms, computerized tomographic scans, or bone scans are often required and should be considered in any wrist injury where the diagnosis is in question. A greater awareness of the fracture types, methods of diagnosis, and choices of treatment is essential for optimal management of these injuries."}
{"id": "3694674", "title": "Radiological seminar CCXLVII: imaging of carpal navicular fractures.", "content": "Radiological seminar CCXLVII: imaging of carpal navicular fractures."}
{"id": "3693834", "title": "The genesis of Kienb\u00f6ck's disease: evaluation of a case by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "The genesis of Kienb\u00f6ck's disease: evaluation of a case by magnetic resonance imaging. We describe a patient in whom, despite normal initial radiographs, tomograms, bone scan, and magnetic resonance imaging, Kienb\u00f6ck's disease developed without the patient suffering an intercurrent injury. This case suggests that Kienb\u00f6ck's disease may not always develop acutely after a single injury but may have a more gradual onset."}
{"id": "3671709", "title": "Unique musculoskeletal trauma.", "content": "Unique musculoskeletal trauma. Pelvic and lower extremity insufficiency fracture in the osteoporotic individual, an approach to posttraumatic wrist instabilities, and certain upper and lower extremity pediatric fractures are discussed. The case material concentrates upon the clinical/radiographic recognition of subtle trauma and the multimodality approach to these unique traumatic musculoskeletal conditions. The impact that computed tomography has had on some of these traumatic conditions also is presented."}
{"id": "3623270", "title": "[Tumors and tumor-like diseases of the carpal bones].", "content": "[Tumors and tumor-like diseases of the carpal bones]. This presentation concerns the findings in 105 tumors or tumor-like lesions in the bones of the carpus. These tumors generally produce complaints which are uncharacteristic and they are quite difficult to recognize on X-ray. Due to this difficulty, there may be many different therapies before the correct final diagnosis is confirmed. These tumors are usually found in the scaphoid, capitate, lunate, or hamate. Of the 105 tumors, 45.7% were osteoid osteoma, which has an incidence of only 11.33% of all bone tumors in the body as a whole. Of the remaining tumors, 15.24% were diagnoses to be intraosseous ganglia (= tumorlike lesions). Lesser percentages were giant-cell tumors, osteochondromas, chondromas. One intraosseous lipoma was found and this had never before been reported. The majority of the patients were between twenty and thirty years of age. With surgical removal, complaints are generally reduced. Dramatic relief from pain is reported by patients when an osteoid osteoma is removed. The most important deduction from these findings is that tumors in the carpus are not as rare as once assumed. The possibility of bone tumors should be considered in patients with intractable pain in the carpus."}
{"id": "3620053", "title": "Liquid crystal thermography in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Liquid crystal thermography in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "3603778", "title": "[Diagnosis of scaphoid bone fractures. An evaluation of zonography and technetium scintigraphy].", "content": "[Diagnosis of scaphoid bone fractures. An evaluation of zonography and technetium scintigraphy]."}
{"id": "3600866", "title": "Recurrent wrist \"sprain\" from an unrecognized scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Recurrent wrist \"sprain\" from an unrecognized scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "3553387", "title": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of scaphoid fractures. A prospective study of the possibility of confirming clinically suspected scaphoid fractures was carried out over one year. Analysis of the results suggest that ultrasound scanning of suspect scaphoid fractures is a reliable method of assessing this condition. It has one weakness in that the diagnosis is based on subjective sensation and this may at times be faulty. Our results, however, suggest that once practice in the technique has been achieved, then mistakes are rarely made."}
{"id": "3498327", "title": "High-resolution CT of the wrist: initial experience with scaphoid disorders and surgical fusions.", "content": "High-resolution CT of the wrist: initial experience with scaphoid disorders and surgical fusions. We performed high-resolution CT scans on 30 wrists in 27 patients with either previous surgical intercarpal fusion or known or suspected scaphoid abnormalities. Most examinations used the same protocol: contiguous 1.5-mm axial sections parallel to the long axis of the body of the scaphoid, small reconstruction circle, and bone reconstruction algorithm. Fifteen patients were evaluated for union of previous surgical carpal fusions; eight patients were evaluated for healing of scaphoid fractures; and the other four patients had miscellaneous disorders, including a midcarpal dislocation with a scaphoid fracture. High-resolution CT clearly showed whether the carpal fusions were united. In addition, metallic fixation devices were easy to locate and did not significantly degrade image quality. Osseous union of healing scaphoid fractures was reliably assessed. We conclude that high-resolution CT of the wrist is a useful method for evaluating surgical carpal fusions and various disorders of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "3495968", "title": "CT for determining the results of treatment of fractures of the wrist.", "content": "CT for determining the results of treatment of fractures of the wrist. Eighteen CT examinations of the wrist were performed in 13 patients to evaluate the results of treatment for carpal fractures. In four cases with metal objects and in seven with cast materials, there was no difficulty achieving adequate CT studies. In 13 cases CT was found to be helpful in determining bony union in the presence of advanced osteoporosis. In six cases CT was excellent in evaluating bone-graft incorporation. CT affords improved detection of fractures perpendicular to the plane of the scan and also shows small areas of bone disruption, even with osteoporosis. Axial CT images can evaluate Lister's tubercle, a bony prominence on the dorsum of the distal radius, for hypertrophy, which can occur secondary to traumatic and degenerative changes. A hypertrophied tubercle can impinge on the extensor pollicis longus tendon and cause atrophy and disruption. The high cost of CT is offset by the possibility of reducing the patient's period of immobilization and, thereby, the length of time the patient is unable to participate in normal activities. In addition, since CT is often definitive, the number of supplemental or follow-up radiologic procedures or clinical appointments should be reduced. We conclude that CT is useful in evaluating the results of treatment of wrist injuries."}
{"id": "3423837", "title": "Case report 453: Bilateral scaphoid-radial encroachment as part of disruption of the scapholunate ligament with secondary degenerative arthritis.", "content": "Case report 453: Bilateral scaphoid-radial encroachment as part of disruption of the scapholunate ligament with secondary degenerative arthritis."}
{"id": "2891450", "title": "Overuse injuries in sport: the foot.", "content": "Overuse injuries in sport: the foot. The authors discuss the clinical characteristics and treatment of such overuse injuries of the foot as plantar fasciitis, Haglund's syndrome, Jones' fracture, and tarsal navicular stress fractures. A consideration of orthotic devices is also provided."}
{"id": "3960756", "title": "Wrist injuries and instability.", "content": "Wrist injuries and instability."}
{"id": "3955937", "title": "The unreduced carpal dislocation. A method of treatment.", "content": "The unreduced carpal dislocation. A method of treatment. Unreduced lunate, perilunate, and transscaphoid perilunate dislocations present a difficult and challenging surgical problem. The authors feel that all efforts should be made to obtain a reduction of the old dislocation. They support a combined dorsal and palmar approach, open reduction, and internal fixation of scaphoid with a Herbert screw to obtain midcarpal stability. A carpal tunnel decompression should be performed if symptoms suggest median nerve entrapment. When the dislocation is unable to be reduced, the authors favor limited wrist arthrodesis or a proximal row carpectomy in the absence of significant arthritis."}
{"id": "3801112", "title": "Bone scintigraphy in the management of X-ray-negative potential scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Bone scintigraphy in the management of X-ray-negative potential scaphoid fractures. One hundred and eleven patients with signs and symptoms of carpal scaphoid injury, but with no fracture visible on X-ray, underwent bone scintigraphy of the wrists. The first 42 patients were re-X-rayed 10 days after injury: bone scanning had identified all fractures confirmed on this X-ray; there were no false negative bone scans. Sixty-seven patients (60%) did not have increased focal uptake over the scaphoid or distal radius, and were mobilised immediately. None of these had a fracture at follow up. Twenty-nine patients with increased uptake over the scaphoid area (26%) remained in plaster of Paris for 6 weeks. All of these had clinical signs of a scaphoid injury. Bone scanning is a practical investigation for all X-ray-negative potential scaphoid injuries, and is acceptable to patient and clinician. In the presence of a normal scan, the practice of re-X-raying patients 10 days after injury may be abandoned."}
{"id": "3768974", "title": "Fractures and dislocations of the carpal bones.", "content": "Fractures and dislocations of the carpal bones. The most common wrist fractures in athletes are fractures of the scaphoid and fractures of the hook of the hamate. Accurate diagnosis and conservative treatment are extremely important. A physician should not compromise principles of treatment for a rapid return of the athlete to competition, because all too often this will jeopardize eventual recovery and his or her future career. It is far better to be conservative, to insist upon complete recovery before permitting competition, especially in high-school and college students, and to be more concerned with the athlete's potential achievements than immediate accomplishments. These axioms are especially applicable when treating young individuals with suspected or proven wrist injuries."}
{"id": "3764432", "title": "[Bilateral bipartite scaphoid bone. A case report].", "content": "[Bilateral bipartite scaphoid bone. A case report]."}
{"id": "3751832", "title": "Evaluation of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "Evaluation of the carpal scaphoid. Fracture of the carpal scaphoid usually results from a fall on an outstretched dorsiflexed wrist. Snuffbox tenderness is an important clue. Because the fracture line may not be visible on the initial roentgenograms, follow-up films are often required. Direct palpation of the distal pole of the scaphoid can enhance the evaluation of wrist pain."}
{"id": "3737140", "title": "Injuries to the distal radioulnar joint.", "content": "Injuries to the distal radioulnar joint. Disorders of the distal radioulnar joint can be divided into those secondary to ligamentous injuries, fractures, and arthritis changes. Further classification of the first two categories relates to acute versus chronic problems. Acute radioulnar joint disruption can, for the most part, be diagnosed on the basis of early physical examination, radiographic evaluation, and a high index of suspicion. Early recognition and the institution of satisfactory treatment are the hallmarks of a successful result. Those injuries seen after 8 weeks can be termed chronic problems, and further diagnostic evaluation beyond physical examination and routine radiographs includes wrist arthrography, arthroscopy, tomograms, and CT scans. These disorders are certainly much more difficult to treat; however, a systematic assessment with a full knowledge of the anatomy and biomechanics is helpful in preventing arthritis as the late sequela of distal radioulnar joint abnormality. Surgical treatment may be necessary in many of these situations but must be tempered to the needs and demands of the individual patient."}
{"id": "3734063", "title": "Three-dimensional reformation of skeletal abnormalities using computed tomography.", "content": "Three-dimensional reformation of skeletal abnormalities using computed tomography. A new technique for evaluation of skeletal pathology is described. The use of three-dimensional reformations based on conventional computed tomographic imaging is a technique that has been used by craniofacial surgeons since 1982 and more recently by orthopedic surgeons at the Adelaide (Australia) Children's Hospital for evaluation of pediatric skeletal pathology. Four cases are presented that demonstrate our early experience with the technique. Three-dimensional reformation is an effective method of translating conventional computed tomographic scans into a readily understood three-dimensional image. We believe that the method will be of increasing value in the evaluation of pediatric skeletal pathology."}
{"id": "3726128", "title": "The wrist: a preliminary report on high-resolution MR imaging.", "content": "The wrist: a preliminary report on high-resolution MR imaging. Excellent spatial resolution is required to demonstrate the complex region of the wrist, with its diverse structures comprising bone, cartilage, and ligaments. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was done with a Magnetom imaging system operating at 1.0 T. Use of a flat surface coil enabled excellent spatial resolution and a section thickness of 4 mm. Twenty-nine patients with navicular nonunion or pseudarthrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, recent fractures, soft-tissue alterations, and bone tumors were examined. All patients had undergone radiography and bone scintigraphy. In this limited sampling, MR was found to detect and characterize marrow and articular alterations more accurately, and earlier, than either of those modalities."}
{"id": "3714271", "title": "[Fractures and dislocation fractures of the wrist joint].", "content": "[Fractures and dislocation fractures of the wrist joint]. Most carpal fractures are based on the same injury mechanism. In most cases the injury is caused by a fall on the dorsiflexed hand, which is raised as a protective measure, and less frequently by a fall on the clenched fist. The latter leads to passive palmar flexion, pronation and radial inclination of the hand; in the former, the hand is passively superextended by the impact, supinated, and brought into ulnar inclination. The instability caused by injury to various articular structures has four developmental stages. The bones or syndesmoses that are involved depend on the stage and quantitative relationship between the three above-mentioned moments of force. If the lateral ligament of the wrist is slack, scaphoid fractures occur; in the last stage of superextension, fractures of the capitate bone occur. With increasing ulnar inclination, perilunar dislocations or fracture-dislocations and triquetrum fractures occur in the third stage and dislocations of the semilunar bone in the fourth stage. In addition, compression and avulsion of the 1st, 4th or 5th metacarpal bones cause fractures of the trapezium and the hamate bone. To avoid unpleasant late sequels, scaphoid fractures with diastasis due to soft tissue interposition or non-reducible dislocated scaphoid fractures must be treated surgically. Vertical oblique fractures and scaphoid fractures with small proximal fragments are relatively good indications for operation. Perilunar instability and dislocations, particularly De Quervain's fracture-dislocations, must be treated operatively because reduction of the scaphoid bone requires a different approach than correcting alignment in the carpus and because soft tissue interpositions are always present, even though they may not be evident in the X-ray pictures. Fracture-dislocations in the distal carpal row also require operation, preferably percutaneous internal fixation using K-wire and fluoroscopy. Immobilization is accomplished by a below-elbow cast with a dorsal plaster splint up to the interdigital webs and from the palmar to the proximal crease. The thumb is only embedded in trapezium fractures; fractures requiring fist or above-elbow casts are indications for operation."}
{"id": "3714269", "title": "[Radiology of the carpus].", "content": "[Radiology of the carpus]. Accurate Diagnosis of bone and soft-tissue lesions in the carpal area is possible by different radiological techniques. A thorough knowledge of the semiology and the limits of these techniques is important. The use of radiology, arthrography, scintigraphy, sonography and CAT Scan in the carpal pathology is described by the authors."}
{"id": "3502957", "title": "[Possibilities of scintigraphy in the early diagnosis of fracture of the scaphoid bone in the hand].", "content": "[Possibilities of scintigraphy in the early diagnosis of fracture of the scaphoid bone in the hand]."}
{"id": "3085566", "title": "Should perimenopausal women be screened for osteoporosis?", "content": "Should perimenopausal women be screened for osteoporosis? The increasing availability of noninvasive methods for measuring bone mass raises the issue of whether perimenopausal women should routinely have such measurements to identify those at risk for osteoporotic fractures of the hip, wrist, and spine. Although the mortality and morbidity caused by hip fractures would warrant routine screening, measurement of bone mass has uncertain value in assessing the risk for hip fracture. Wrist fractures generally cause only transient disability, and measurement of bone mass may not reliably predict risk. Measurements of bone density of the spine might be better able to assess a woman's risk for vertebral fractures, but the value of screening depends on whether the findings would affect a woman's decision about using estrogen therapy after menopause. Serial measurements of bone mass to estimate a woman's rate of bone loss are relatively imprecise, increase the cost of screening, and have at best a limited role in screening women to assess risk for osteoporotic fractures."}
{"id": "2423943", "title": "[Pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid].", "content": "[Pseudarthrosis of the scaphoid]. For the treatment of scaphoid non-unions, innumerable curative and palliative operations have been recommended. Of the curative operations, the various methods of bone grafting give the best results, whereas screw fixation is not satisfactory. Bone pegs with a cortical graft are no longer used because of technical difficulties. Corticocancellous grafts (Matti-Russe) yield bony union in almost 90% of cases. The combination of corticocancellous grafts with plate stabilization gives the highest rate of bony union (99%). A cure should therefore always be attempted in all non-union cases, with the exception of cases already involving severe, generalized osteoarthritis or extensive necrosis of the scaphoid. Of the different palliative methods, the early results of prosthetic partial or total replacement of the scaphoid are satisfactory. Late results are less satisfactory, with a high rate of complications and carpal collapse. With severe osteoarthrosis, proximal carpectomy, especially the transscaphoideo-lunate resection, gives good results. Intercarpal arthrodeses have been disappointing. Radiocarpal arthrodesis results in a pain-free, strong wrist; however, there is complete loss of motion, whereas denervation gives satisfactory results in 57% and preserved mobility of the wrist."}
{"id": "4091605", "title": "Distal radioulnar involvement in trauma of the wrist.", "content": "Distal radioulnar involvement in trauma of the wrist. The distal radioulnar joint is the weakest point of the rotational column of the wrist. This joint is a functional part of the radiocarpal joint, united to it by an elastic tightening system, and perfectly controlled by the ulnaris (especially the extensor carpi) tendons. Our anatomic study allowed to define the mechanisms of the lesions and the methods for their correction. The key to success seems to be a functionally dynamic extensor carpi ulnaris and its dorsal position in supination. Our clinical study shows that all injuries to the distal radioulnar joint associated with trauma of the wrist or of the forearm are a factor of severity and they may be responsible for the high rate of complications. Therefore, in Galeazzi's fracture-dislocation, a specific method of stabilization may need to be associated with the radius osteosynthesis. In the absence of degenerative changes, chronic instability of the distal radioulnar joint can benefit from ligament stabilization. Results so far have been very encouraging, as far as young patients are concerned. Complex injuries remain a major obstacle, in which ligamentous and bone lesions must be distinguished by confronting clinical observation with paraclinical investigations. Computerized tomography seems to be of limited value, although this method of investigation is still in its prospective stages. Concerning management, shortening of the ulna with dorsal repositioning of the extensor carpi ulnaris allows to decompress the carpo-ulnar compartment, to stretch the tendinous and ligamentous structures, and, if need, to restore radioulnar congruity. Better knowledge of this pathology will allow to categorize radioulnar tears associated with wrist injuries. Under emergency conditions, surgical or non operative management must be adapted, allowing healing to occur with perfect restoration of the distal epiphysis of the radius. By doing so good functional results may be guaranteed."}
{"id": "4090953", "title": "Stress fracture of the navicular bone. Nine cases in athletes.", "content": "Stress fracture of the navicular bone. Nine cases in athletes. Nine cases of stress fractures of the tarsal navicular bone were treated in athletes. The diagnosis was made with radiographs and bone scan within 6 months. Only two patients were treated surgically. The only poor result was seen in a patient in whom the fracture was only explored."}
{"id": "4075727", "title": "Normal values for trabecular and cortical bone in the radius measured by computed tomography.", "content": "Normal values for trabecular and cortical bone in the radius measured by computed tomography. Quantities related to the amount of trabecular bone in the distal radius and cortical bone in the radius mid-shaft have been measured in 262 normal adults of both sexes aged 21-89 years by computed tomography (CT). A special-purpose CT system (ISOTOM) which incorporated a source of 125I (29 keV) was used to make the measurements. The relationships between these quantities and age, weight, height and surface area have been evaluated, and the results have been used to draw conclusions on the significance of values measured in female patients with osteoporosis, Colles' fracture of the wrist and generalised osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "4012718", "title": "[Bone scintigraphy in fractures of the scaphoid].", "content": "[Bone scintigraphy in fractures of the scaphoid]."}
{"id": "3998606", "title": "Attritional flexor tendon rupture due to a scaphoid non union imitating an anterior interosseous nerve syndrome: a case report.", "content": "Attritional flexor tendon rupture due to a scaphoid non union imitating an anterior interosseous nerve syndrome: a case report. A case is presented of acute loss of function of flexor pollicis longus and profundus tendon to the index finger. Although the aetiology was obscure, the acute onset suggested a mechanical cause rather than a nerve compression disorder such as anterior interosseous nerve palsy. X-rays showed an ununited scaphoid fracture related to an injury many years previously. Surgical exploration revealed attritional rupture of flexor pollicis longus and partial division of profundus tendon to index finger by a spicule of ununited scaphoid which had eroded through the volar capsule. Removal of the spicule and tenodesis of flexor pollicis longus gave a good long term result."}
{"id": "3833952", "title": "The sore wrist without a fracture.", "content": "The sore wrist without a fracture. The possible causes of wrist pain in a patient with normal roentgenograms are many, and the above discussion of differential diagnosis is by no means intended to be all inclusive. Rather, my intent has been to provide a checklist of some of the more likely causes as well as a systematic approach to the identification of the cause. Many of the tests described are somewhat costly (Table 31-3), and they should not be ordered indiscriminately. Rather, the need for each test is determined by a reasonable presumptive diagnosis, depending on the history, clinical examination, and routine roentgenograms (see Table 31-1). Finally, I must say that even an exhaustive work-up may not be fruitful, and occasionally the precise cause for the patient's pain is never clearly identified. Our knowledge of the wrist is incomplete, and our diagnostic tools are not infallible, but we must continue to try to sort out these difficult wrist problems. The ultimate solutions to many of these enigmas will be dependent on our ability to correlate specific signs and symptoms with appropriate diagnostic modalities and observations at the time of operation."}
{"id": "6747427", "title": "Bone scanning of fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Bone scanning of fractures of the scaphoid. The value of isotope scanning in patients with clinical signs of fracture of the carpal scaphoid bone and negative or non-diagnostic initial radiographs was examined. 30 patients were examined using both radiography and isotope scanning. A normal scan excludes a fracture. Increased activity localized to the scaphoid bone indicates a fracture. 9 patients had fracture of the scaphoid evident on bone scans within 2 weeks of the injury. It took 2-6 weeks before these fractures showed up on radiographs."}
{"id": "6747238", "title": "Scaphoid fractures in children.", "content": "Scaphoid fractures in children."}
{"id": "6744737", "title": "Roentgenographic diagnosis of the painful wrist.", "content": "Roentgenographic diagnosis of the painful wrist. The painful wrist as a result of an injury to the carpal bones, ligaments, or joint capsule often presents a diagnostic challenge to the physician. In those cases where a thorough clinical examination does not explain the cause of the patient's symptomatology, a systematic roentgenographic evaluation of the painful wrist may result in early diagnosis and appropriate definitive treatment of the underlying disorder. This paper proposes an approach that makes use of the various available roentgenographic modalities."}
{"id": "6544813", "title": "Three-phase bone studies in hemiplegia with reflex sympathetic dystrophy and the effect of disuse.", "content": "Three-phase bone studies in hemiplegia with reflex sympathetic dystrophy and the effect of disuse. Eighty-five patients with cerebral vascular accidents were assessed with three-phase bone scintigraphy of the hands and with whole-body delayed bone imaging. Nine patients (10%) had normal three-phase bone images. Fifty-five patients (65%) showed decreased blood flow and blood-pool images of the hands and wrists with normal delayed bone scintigrams, indicating the effect of paralysis or disuse. Twenty-one patients (25%) had diffuse increased uptake with periarticular accentuation, felt to be bone-scintigraphic evidence of reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the hands and wrists; in two patients this occurred before its clinical appearance. Thirteen of the 21 reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndromes (RDS)-involved limbs (62%) had increased blood flow, whereas 8 (38%) had decreased flow. Gross limb blood flow appears to be related to the degree of muscle activity, but flow may be altered by the presence of sympathetic changes. A possible dissociation between whole-limb flow and bone blood flow in paralyzed limbs involved with RDS is discussed. The elbow was involved in only one case, and a true \"shoulder-hand\" distribution was seen in only 11 of 21 cases (52%). Five patients (6%) had leg involvement on whole-body imaging. Traumatic synovitis of the wrist, and trauma to subluxed shoulders, could be recognized on the delayed study."}
{"id": "6516816", "title": "[Evolution and treatment of tarsal scaphoid fractures].", "content": "[Evolution and treatment of tarsal scaphoid fractures]."}
{"id": "6879077", "title": "[Fractures of the tarsal scaphoid].", "content": "[Fractures of the tarsal scaphoid]."}
{"id": "6858656", "title": "Regional scintimetry in scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Regional scintimetry in scaphoid fractures. A quantitative scintigraphic method was introduced to examine the proximal, middle and distal third of the carpal scaphoid bone. 99mTc-Sn-pyrophosphate scintimetry was obtained by the use of a gamma camera equipped with a pinhole collimator. Of six patients in whom a unilateral fresh fracture of the scaphoid was clinically suspected, radiology showed a fracture of the scaphoid in four and no fractures in two. The method may be suitable in early diagnosis and further localization of clinically suspected fractures with initially non-diagnostic radiographs."}
{"id": "6844833", "title": "[Fractures of the scaphoid].", "content": "[Fractures of the scaphoid]."}
{"id": "6668167", "title": "Irreducible trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocation.", "content": "Irreducible trans-scaphoid perilunate dislocation."}
{"id": "6612886", "title": "[Bone scintigraphy in suspected fracture of the scaphoid bone].", "content": "[Bone scintigraphy in suspected fracture of the scaphoid bone]."}
{"id": "6576759", "title": "The role of bone scans in the assessment of prognosis of scaphoid fractures.", "content": "The role of bone scans in the assessment of prognosis of scaphoid fractures. Fifty patients with radiographic evidence of an acute scaphoid fracture were studied prospectively. Technetium bone scans were performed on all patients soon after injury in an attempt to detect fractures at risk of non-union or avascular necrosis. In three patients the scan showed a focal area of decreased radionuclide concentration in the region of the proximal pole of scaphoid implying avascularity, and each developed the radiographic signs of avascular necrosis. Two of these patients, each with a displaced fracture, developed non-union. Acute fractures of the scaphoid with evidence of avascularity on bone scan are at high risk of developing non-union."}
{"id": "6300958", "title": "Hand and wrist arthropathies of hemochromatosis and calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease: distinct radiographic features.", "content": "Hand and wrist arthropathies of hemochromatosis and calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease: distinct radiographic features. Radiographic features of hand and wrist involvement in 26 patients with hemochromatosis and in 26 patients with idiopathic calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition disease were compared. Two radiologists independently examined the radiographs without knowledge of the specific group to which the patient belonged. The results of this study clearly establish that structural joint diseases in the two disorders are not identical. Characteristic findings allow the radiologist to favor one diagnosis over the other. These radiographic differences indicate that the arthropathy of hemochromatosis is related to factors additional to the presence of CPPD crystals, specifically, the more prevalent narrowing of the metacarpophalangeal joint spaces, including those in the fourth and fifth digits, peculiar hook-like osteophytes on the radial aspect of the metacarpal heads, and less prevalent separation of the scaphoid and the lunate."}
{"id": "6224230", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures: radiographic evaluation.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures: radiographic evaluation. Tarsal navicular stress fractures are a potential source of disabling foot pain in physically active individuals. The diagnosis of tarsal navicular stress fracture requires a high index of clinical and radiographic suspicion because the fracture is only rarely evident on routine radiographs or standard tomograms. The radiographic diagnosis of a tarsal navicular stress fracture may require anatomic anteroposterior tomograms or a radionuclide bone scan with plantar views. Radiographic examinations of 23 fractures in 21 patients are evaluated."}
{"id": "6221504", "title": "Bone scintigraphy in the evaluation of fracture of the carpal scaphoid bone.", "content": "Bone scintigraphy in the evaluation of fracture of the carpal scaphoid bone. The purpose of the present prospective study was to assess the value of 99m-Tc-MDP wrist scintigraphy performed as a routine examination in excluding or detecting carpal scaphoid bone fracture. The following conclusions are drawn: 99m-Tc-MDP wrist scintigraphy is of high sensitivity, but low specificity in the detection of scaphoid bone fractures. The scintigraphy is expedient to exclude scaphoid bone fracture, if performed after secondary clinical and radiographic assessment, and guided by negative scintigrams a reduction of clinical examinations, radiographies and superfluous casting days is achieved."}
{"id": "9382634", "title": "[Fractures of the scaphoid].", "content": "[Fractures of the scaphoid]. Scapho\u00efd fractures are the most common carpal injury. The diagnosis is often difficult and the treatment often controversial. Late complications are frequent and include nonunion, avascular necrosis and arthrosis. Carpal pathomechanics, the scaphoid's blood supply and fracture healing are basic concepts leading to a better understanding of the injury. This paper discusses the scapho\u00efd in relation to the pathomechanics of the wrist, the relationship of the blood supply of the scapho\u00efd to the injury and the diagnosis, classification and treatment of these fractures."}
{"id": "7182293", "title": "[Value of bone scintigraphy in the recognition of scaphoid bone fracture difficult to detect roentgenologically].", "content": "[Value of bone scintigraphy in the recognition of scaphoid bone fracture difficult to detect roentgenologically]. Fractures result in increased metabolism of the bone and increased uptake of certain radioisotopes as demonstrated by bone scanning. By comparison, X-rays reveal a fracture only by a disturbance in skeletal structure. In this study, scaphoid fractures which were difficult to detect initially on X-rays were demonstrated by bone scan eight days later. The value of this diagnostic technique was demonstrated in several cases."}
{"id": "7141682", "title": "Ultrasonic assessment of fractures and its use in the diagnosis of the suspected scaphoid fracture.", "content": "Ultrasonic assessment of fractures and its use in the diagnosis of the suspected scaphoid fracture."}
{"id": "7129827", "title": "Radiography and scintigraphy in the diagnosis of carpal scaphoid fractures.", "content": "Radiography and scintigraphy in the diagnosis of carpal scaphoid fractures."}
{"id": "7085706", "title": "A clinical sign in suspected fractures of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "A clinical sign in suspected fractures of the carpal scaphoid."}
{"id": "7067295", "title": "Giant cell tumor associated with trauma.", "content": "Giant cell tumor associated with trauma. Presented is a case report of a 19-year-old man who developed a giant cell tumor in the distal ulna following trauma to the carpus. Roentgenograms and bone scan revealed a fracture of the scaphoid and no other bony abnormalities. On year later, after the scaphoid fracture had healed, the same investigations demonstrated a giant cell tumor of the distal ulna. Circumstantial evidence suggests a possible role for trauma in the pathogenesis of giant cell tumor."}
{"id": "7061014", "title": "The diagnostic value of displacement of the fat stripe in fracture of the scaphoid bone.", "content": "The diagnostic value of displacement of the fat stripe in fracture of the scaphoid bone. Soft tissue abnormalities on radiological examination can be useful in evaluating injury to various regions. In a retrospective study of X-ray pictures of 125 patients with injury to the wrist, it was possible to demonstrate an abnormal scaphoid fat stripe (SFS) in seventy-three out of seventy-eight cases with fracture of the scaphoid bone, compared to ten out of forty-seven cases without fracture."}
{"id": "6123618", "title": "[The symptoms, forms and secondary lesions of scaphoid pseudarthrosis (author's transl)].", "content": "[The symptoms, forms and secondary lesions of scaphoid pseudarthrosis (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7296203", "title": "Isotope bone imaging in suspected scaphoid trauma.", "content": "Isotope bone imaging in suspected scaphoid trauma. The unreliability of radiological examination in excluding or confirming a suspected scaphoid fracture after carpal trauma is a well-recognised diagnostic problem. This paper explores the role of isotope bone imaging (IBI) in the early identification of carpal bone injury. Abnormal generalized uptake of activity may be seen within the carpus, possibly as a consequence of diffuse soft tissue injury, particularly if imaging is performed within 48 hours of trauma. A focal area of increased uptake related to one carpal bone is suggestive of fracture though the part which ligamentous injury, localized periosteal reaction or incomplete cortical infarction may play in the production of such radionuclide appearances is uncertain. Ninety-nine patients with suspected recent scaphoid fracture but no demonstrable abnormality on radiological examination were subjected to IBI, using 555 MBq (15 mCi) of 99Tcm methylene diphosphonate. Abnormal focal increased uptake (AFIU) was found in 47 patients, this being localized to the scaphoid bone in 26. Of these 47 cases, 19 (42%) showed subsequent radiological evidence of fracture. The results of IBI, in our experience, can only be reliably interpreted if imaging is performed at least 48 hours after injury, though in cases of fracture AFIU may persist for several years. Using this technique, the possibility of fracture can be confidently excluded in that group of patients who show no AFIU. In selected cases of carpal trauma, IBI provides a satisfactory alternative means of identifying the presence and site of localized injury within the carpus and may be used to confidently exclude those patients with non-osseous symptomatology."}
{"id": "7258472", "title": "Stress fracture of the scaphoid waist. A case report.", "content": "Stress fracture of the scaphoid waist. A case report."}
{"id": "7205032", "title": "Fractures of the scaphoid: important but easily missed injuries.", "content": "Fractures of the scaphoid: important but easily missed injuries."}
{"id": "7044578", "title": "[Current considerations on the fracture of the carpal scaphoid].", "content": "[Current considerations on the fracture of the carpal scaphoid]."}
{"id": "6779572", "title": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures in runners.", "content": "Tarsal navicular stress fractures in runners. The number of participants in running programs at all levels has increased in recent years. As a consequence, practitioners are more frequently dealing with diagnoses in symptomatic runners. Detection of tarsal navicular stress fractures in long distance runners, including the diagnostic value of radionuclide bone scanning, is discussed."}
{"id": "6265653", "title": "Bone scanning in the detection of occult fractures.", "content": "Bone scanning in the detection of occult fractures. The potential role of bone scanning in the early detection of occult fractures following acute trauma was investigated. Technetium 99m pyrophosphate bone scans were obtained in patients with major clinical findings (e.g., pain, swelling, tenderness) and negative or equivocal roentgenograms following trauma. Bone scanning facilitated the prompt diagnosis of occult fractures in the hip, knee, wrist, ribs and costochondral junctions, sternum, vertebrae, sacrum, and coccyx. Several illustrative cases are presented. Roentgenographic confirmation occurred following a delay of days to weeks and, in some instances, the roentgenographic findings were subtle and could be easily overlooked. This study demonstrates bone scanning to be invaluable and definitive in the prompt detection of occult fractures."}
{"id": "6115987", "title": "[Recent data in the diagnosis of scaphoid non-union (author's transl)].", "content": "[Recent data in the diagnosis of scaphoid non-union (author's transl)]. An analysis of the problems of the scaphoid non-union diagnostics is given here, based on their experiences with more than 400 operations. Bennet's x-rays are always mandatory, and if problems arise, microfocal x-rays and tomography should be done. They draw the attention to certain x-rays signs described by them. Intraosseous venography has been introduced to help the diagnosis. The distinctive signs between bipartite scaphoid and scaphoid non-union are given too."}
{"id": "7448487", "title": "The early diagnosis of fractures of the carpal scaphoid bone.", "content": "The early diagnosis of fractures of the carpal scaphoid bone."}
{"id": "7211295", "title": "Fracture of the carpal scaphoid in children. A clinical and roentgenological study of 108 cases.", "content": "Fracture of the carpal scaphoid in children. A clinical and roentgenological study of 108 cases. A series of 108 carpal scaphoid fractures in children was analysed with respect to the site, type and treatment of the fracture. The patients were followed until radiological fusion occurred. All fractures united and healed completely with conservative treatment. Ninety-four fractures, 41 of which were avulsions, were located in the distal third of the scaphoid. There were 13 waist fractures, and one avulsion fracture was located in the proximal pole of the scaphoid. The great number of avulsion fractures and the location of the fractures in the distal third of the scaphoid is very typical in children. In three neglected cases marked bone resorption was seen on the fracture surface 3 weeks after the injury. Because non-union is possible especially in neglected cases of waist fractures, control radiographs should be taken 1 or 2 weeks after the injury if the fracture is not visible on the primary radiographs but is suspected clinically. Immobilization with an adequate plaster cast is mandatory in all transverse fractures of the carpal scaphoid in children."}
{"id": "7209415", "title": "Carpal bone cysts: a clinical and radiographic study.", "content": "Carpal bone cysts: a clinical and radiographic study. In order to analyse and correlate the clinical and radiographic features of intracarpal bone cysts a review of 80 cysts in 77 patients is presented. Some cysts were found to develop very slowly from an area of trabecular fading to a well-defined cavity, bordered by a zone of radiopacity. Pain was constantly correlated to cysts with marginal sclerosis and at operation these cysts were found to be made up of fibrous tissue with mucoid changes. Most cysts were located in the scaphoid and lunate which are known to have vulnerable vascular supplies. These bones are also exposed to heavy load during power grip. It is, therefore, plausible that these cysts are caused by intramedullary vascular disturbances, followed by bone resorption and fibroblastic proliferation, and that pain is elicited by increasing pressure inside the cyst."}
{"id": "532594", "title": "Scanning and radiology of the carpal scaphoid bone.", "content": "Scanning and radiology of the carpal scaphoid bone. The value of isotope scanning in patients with suspected fracture of the scaphoid bone of the wrist was examined. For this purpose comparable examinations were made of 50 patients using both radiography and isotope scanning. With a normal scan, the suspicion of fracture or other bone diseases can be excluded. Increased focal activity corresponding to the region of the scaphoid bone indicates the possibility of a fracture, even if a fracture cannot be seen in the initial X-rays."}
{"id": "512312", "title": "Bone scanning in the assessment of fractures of the scaphoid.", "content": "Bone scanning in the assessment of fractures of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "457743", "title": "Carpal involvement in inflammatory (erosive) osteoarthritis.", "content": "Carpal involvement in inflammatory (erosive) osteoarthritis. Inflammatory or erosive osteoarthritis, in addition to the classical digital distribution, may involve the carpus. Characteristic carpal changes are restricted to the radial aspect of the wrist and consist of narrowing, eburnation, osteophytosis, and mild subluxation of the first carpometacarpal and trapezio-scaphoid joints. Radiographic findings and differential diagnosis are discussed."}
{"id": "152945", "title": "[Hemimelica epiphysialis dysplasia (author's transl)].", "content": "[Hemimelica epiphysialis dysplasia (author's transl)]. Hemimelica Epiphysialis Dysplasia is a rare osteochondrodystrophy producing cartilaginous epiphysial hypertrophy with hemimelic topography involving preferentialy the lower limb. Lesions are generally medialy situated (medial condyle of the femur, medial malleolus talus, tarsal scaphoid and first metatarsal bone). 8 cases of patients are discussed with a follow up of 4 years. The evolution is to a massive ossification of the hypertrophic cartilaginous areas. The issue is a fast arthrosic degeneration of the involved joints (mainly the ankle, more rarely the knee). The surgical procedures are often unsuccessful."}
{"id": "1132172", "title": "Fluoride-18 scintigraphy in avascular necrotic disorders of bone.", "content": "Fluoride-18 scintigraphy in avascular necrotic disorders of bone. Fluoride-18 scintigraphy is a simple, safe method for evaluating perfusion to bone, and obviates objections to earlier techniques. The scintillation camera with positron detection represents a unique instrumentation system because of its tomographic effect, relative insensitivity to vascular radioactivity in the surrounding skeleton, and excellent spatial resolution despite low counting efficiency. In 75 patients with avascular disorders about the hip, knee, elbow, foot and hand, the impressions obtained from fluoride-18 scintigraphy were correlated with clinical findings and roentgenograms and when possible confirmed by tetracycline labeling and histological examination. Fluoride-18 scintigraphy was useful: in determining the vascularity of the femoral head following femoral neck fractures; in determining results of treatment; and in diagnosing early the various avascular necrotic disorders of the bone."}
{"id": "4822277", "title": "[Fractures of the scaphoid in children].", "content": "[Fractures of the scaphoid in children]."}
{"id": "5806818", "title": "[On the surgical treatment of the scaphoid bone pseudarthrosis].", "content": "[On the surgical treatment of the scaphoid bone pseudarthrosis]."}
{"id": "5392051", "title": "[An unusually large external scaphoid bone].", "content": "[An unusually large external scaphoid bone]."}
{"id": "5374338", "title": "Isolated dislocation of the carpal scaphoid.", "content": "Isolated dislocation of the carpal scaphoid."}
{"id": "5660652", "title": "Rotational subluxation of the scaphoid.", "content": "Rotational subluxation of the scaphoid."}
{"id": "5967084", "title": "[Bipartite carpal scaphoid].", "content": "[Bipartite carpal scaphoid]."}
{"id": "14837318", "title": "[The pathogenesis, clinical aspects and differential diagnosis of fracture, strain injuries, and congenital bipartition of the carpal scaphoid].", "content": "[The pathogenesis, clinical aspects and differential diagnosis of fracture, strain injuries, and congenital bipartition of the carpal scaphoid]."}
