{"id": "23399676", "title": "[Epilepsy with higher brain dysfunction].", "content": "[Epilepsy with higher brain dysfunction]. Acquired higher brain dysfunction is for the most part due to cerebral vascular disease, but epilepsy may also be a cause. In this study with five patients, we discuss the advantages of anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) for persistent higher brain dysfunction. The patients showed chronic amnesia or acute aphasia, with associated symptoms like personality change. All five cases affected automatism or convulsive attack, though only after the emergence of higher brain dysfunction and administration of AEDs. There were underlying diseases like cerebral arteriovenous malformation in four cases, but the other patient had none. Electroencephalogram and single photon emission computed tomography revealed one case of aphasia epilepsy with higher brain dysfunction. These results suggest the potential therapeutic efficacy of AEDs for persistent higher brain dysfunction, and we must differentiate epilepsy with higher brain dysfunction from dementia or cerebral vascular disease."}
{"id": "23382946", "title": "Pale body-like inclusion formation and neurodegeneration following depletion of 26S proteasomes in mouse brain neurones are independent of \u03b1-synuclein.", "content": "Pale body-like inclusion formation and neurodegeneration following depletion of 26S proteasomes in mouse brain neurones are independent of \u03b1-synuclein. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive degeneration of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) dopaminergic neurones and the formation of Lewy bodies (LB) in a proportion of the remaining neurones. \u03b1-synuclein is the main component of LB, but the pathological mechanisms that lead to neurodegeneration associated with LB formation remain unclear. Three pivotal elements have emerged in the development of PD: \u03b1-synuclein, mitochondria and protein degradation systems. We previously reported a unique model, created by conditional genetic depletion of 26S proteasomes in the SNpc of mice, which mechanistically links these three elements with the neuropathology of PD: progressive neurodegeneration and intraneuronal inclusion formation. Using this model, we tested the hypothesis that \u03b1-synuclein was essential for the formation of inclusions and neurodegeneration caused by 26S proteasomal depletion. We found that both of these processes were independent of \u03b1-synuclein. This provides an important insight into the relationship between the proteasome, \u03b1-synuclein, inclusion formation and neurodegeneration. We also show that the autophagy-lysosomal pathway is not activated in 26S proteasome-depleted neurones. This leads us to suggest that the paranuclear accumulation of mitochondria in inclusions in our model may reflect a role for the ubiquitin proteasome system in mitochondrial homeostasis and that neurodegeneration may be mediated through mitochondrial factors linked to inclusion biogenesis."}
{"id": "23357822", "title": "Regions of interest-based discriminant analysis of DaTSCAN SPECT and FDG-PET for the classification of dementia.", "content": "Regions of interest-based discriminant analysis of DaTSCAN SPECT and FDG-PET for the classification of dementia. Neuroimaging is increasingly used to support the clinical diagnosis of patients with cognitive impairment. Dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging, such as DaTSCAN SPECT, tests the integrity of the nigrostriatal pathway, whereas FDG-PET identifies typical patterns of cortical and subcortical hypometabolism. The aim of this study was to assess the relative contribution of DAT and regional glucose metabolism imaging to the differential diagnosis. Twenty-seven subjects were investigated for neurodegenerative dementia associated with parkinsonism of variable severity by FDG-PET and DaTSCAN SPECT. They were grouped according to the clinically established diagnosis, including probable Alzheimer disease (5 subjects), corticobasal degeneration (6 subjects), Lewy body dementia (8 subjects), frontotemporal dementia (4 subjects), and Parkinson disease with dementia (4 subjects). Normalized FDG uptake and DAT uptake ratios were obtained by the BRASS software. We used a discriminant analysis with a stepwise method and a leave-one-out cross-validation. With the use of regional values of normalized FDG uptake, 85.2% and 55.6% of the patients were correctly classified by the discriminant analysis and the cross-validation, respectively. When DAT alone was considered, the results were 59.3% and 51.9%, whereas the combination of both DAT and normalized FDG uptake yielded 100% and 88.9% of accurate classifications. This automated analysis approach shows that the information provided by normalized FDG uptake and DAT is not redundant for the differential diagnosis of dementia and that taking into account both normalized FDG uptake and DAT uptake allows a better classification of individual patients. These results further support the usefulness of both modalities in the clinical workup of dementia."}
{"id": "23334141", "title": "Detection of gray matter damage using brain MRI and SPECT in carbon monoxide intoxication: a comparison study with neuropsychological correlation.", "content": "Detection of gray matter damage using brain MRI and SPECT in carbon monoxide intoxication: a comparison study with neuropsychological correlation. While lesion patterns in white matter have been extensively reported in the literature on carbon monoxide (CO) intoxication, reports on the effects on gray matter damage are less common. The aim of this study was to investigate regional damage patterns focusing on gray matter using (99m)Tc ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with clinical correlation. Thirty CO intoxication patients and 15 age-matched controls were enrolled for standard neuropsychological tests. Six regions of interest (ROI) were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively in both SPECT and MRI. The patients were further grouped according to clinical dementia rating score. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive ratios related to dementia from both imaging modalities were further examined. In SPECT qualitative analysis, basal ganglia (n = 16) were the most common regions showing lower perfusion patterns. The basal ganglion and temporal, frontal, and parietal regions of the patients with dementia showed significantly lower perfusion patterns. MRI had a higher sensitivity while SPECT had a higher specificity and positive and negative predictive ratios in correlation with dementia among the ROI. The perfusion indices of the frontal, temporal, basal ganglion, and thalamus were inversely correlated with clinical severity (all P < 0.05). Our findings suggest that a multiparametric neuroimaging approach may provide more information in revealing the anatomical and neurobehavioral results in patients after CO intoxication. The atrophy pattern seen in MRI may explain in part the possible mechanism of the hypoperfusion state seen in SPECT."}
{"id": "23300102", "title": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome]. Recently, several attempts have been made to characterize the clinical symptoms and brain atrophy patterns in pathology-proven corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS) with known histopathology. CBS is a term which was proposed to characterize the constellation of clinical features initially considered the defining characteristics of CBD. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analyses of MRI revealed that frontal lobe involvement is characteristic of CBD. The pathologic substrates for clinical CBS were found to be CBD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) with TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP) inclusions. CBS was associated with perirolandic atrophy, irrespective of underlying pathology. In CBS due to FTLD, atrophy extended into the prefrontal cortex, striatum, and brainstem, whereas in CBS due to AD, atrophy extended into the temporoparietal cortex and precuneus. No functional imaging studies in pathology-proven CBD or CBS with known histopathology have yet been published. PET and SPECT studies have demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow in the fronto-parietal cortex, particularly contralateral to the dominant symptoms in CBS patients. A PET study showed decreased acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the fronto-parietal cortex, as well as a correlation between cortical AChE activity and mini-mental state examination score in CBS patients, suggesting that cholinergic stimulant therapy may be effective for dementia in CBS. Additionally, [18F] 6-fluorodopa PET and dopamine transporter SPECT studies have demonstrated nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction in CBS. Antemortem prediction of CBD will remain challenging until sensitive, specific biomarkers are identified."}
{"id": "23254635", "title": "Low-abundant cerebrospinal fluid proteome alterations in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Low-abundant cerebrospinal fluid proteome alterations in dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases and shares multiple clinical and neuropathological parallels with Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). A variety of clinical signs are suggestive for the diagnosis, and imaging (\u03b2CIT SPECT) contributes substantially to the diagnosis. The study reported here was performed in search for a biomarker in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of these patients. We applied 2D fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to analyze the CSF proteome pattern of DLB patients after depleting twelve high-abundant proteins. The densitometric analysis of 2D gels showed the up- or down-regulation of 44 protein spots. Subsequently, 23 different proteins were identified. The majority is involved in acute phase and immune response. Many of these proteins were previously reported before as being associated with AD or PD, which strongly suggests a molecular cross-talk and may explain clinical and pathological overlap of these disease entities. Among the identified proteins are two highly upregulated proteins-inter alpha trypsin inhibitor heavy chain (ITIH4) and calsyntenin 1-that may have the potential to serve as molecular biomarkers specific for DLB. The identification of DLB-associated proteome changes will help to further understand pathological processes occurring in DLB and may provide future prospects to diagnostic and therapeutic options."}
{"id": "23160999", "title": "European multicentre database of healthy controls for [123I]FP-CIT SPECT (ENC-DAT): age-related effects, gender differences and evaluation of different methods of analysis.", "content": "European multicentre database of healthy controls for [123I]FP-CIT SPECT (ENC-DAT): age-related effects, gender differences and evaluation of different methods of analysis. Dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with [(123)I]FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) is an established diagnostic tool in parkinsonism and dementia. Although qualitative assessment criteria are available, DAT quantification is important for research and for completion of a diagnostic evaluation. One critical aspect of quantification is the availability of normative data, considering possible age and gender effects on DAT availability. The aim of the European Normal Control Database of DaTSCAN (ENC-DAT) study was to generate a large database of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans in healthy controls. SPECT data from 139 healthy controls (74 men, 65 women; age range 20-83 years, mean 53 years) acquired in 13 different centres were included. Images were reconstructed using the ordered-subset expectation-maximization algorithm without correction (NOACSC), with attenuation correction (AC), and with both attenuation and scatter correction using the triple-energy window method (ACSC). Region-of-interest analysis was performed using the BRASS software (caudate and putamen), and the Southampton method (striatum). The outcome measure was the specific binding ratio (SBR). A significant effect of age on SBR was found for all data. Gender had a significant effect on SBR in the caudate and putamen for the NOACSC and AC data, and only in the left caudate for the ACSC data (BRASS method). Significant effects of age and gender on striatal SBR were observed for all data analysed with the Southampton method. Overall, there was a significant age-related decline in SBR of between 4 % and 6.7 % per decade. This study provides a large database of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans in healthy controls across a wide age range and with balanced gender representation. Higher DAT availability was found in women than in men. An average age-related decline in DAT availability of 5.5 % per decade was found for both genders, in agreement with previous reports. The data collected in this study may serve as a reference database for nuclear medicine centres and for clinical trials using [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT as the imaging marker."}
{"id": "22644539", "title": "A possible pathophysiological role of tyrosine hydroxylase in Parkinson's disease suggested by postmortem brain biochemistry: a contribution for the special 70th birthday symposium in honor of Prof. Peter Riederer.", "content": "A possible pathophysiological role of tyrosine hydroxylase in Parkinson's disease suggested by postmortem brain biochemistry: a contribution for the special 70th birthday symposium in honor of Prof. Peter Riederer. Postmortem brain biochemistry has revealed that the main symptom of movement disorder in Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by a deficiency in dopamine (DA) at the nerve terminals of degenerating nigro-striatal DA neurons in the striatum. Since tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme for the biosynthesis of DA, TH may play an important role in the disease process of PD. DA regulated by TH activity is thought to interact with \u03b1-synuclein protein, which results in intracellular aggregates called Lewy bodies and causes apoptotic cell death during the aging process. Human TH has several isoforms produced by alternative mRNA splicing, which may affect activation by phosphorylation of serine residues in the N-terminus of TH. The activity and protein level of TH are decreased to cause DA deficiency in the striatum in PD. However, the homo-specific activity (activity/enzyme protein) of TH is increased. This increase in TH homo-specific activity suggests activation by increased phosphorylation at the N-terminus of the TH protein for a compensatory increase in DA synthesis. We recently found that phosphorylation of the N-terminal portion of TH triggers proteasomal degradation of the enzyme to increase TH turnover. We propose a hypothesis that this compensatory activation of TH by phosphorylation in the remaining DA neurons may contribute to a further decrease in TH protein and activity in DA neurons in PD, causing a vicious circle of decreasing TH activity, protein level and DA contents. Furthermore, increased TH homo-specific activity leading to an increase in DA may cause toxic reactive oxygen species in the neurons to promote neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "22354157", "title": "An FP-CIT PET comparison of the differences in dopaminergic neuronal loss between idiopathic Parkinson disease with dementia and without dementia.", "content": "An FP-CIT PET comparison of the differences in dopaminergic neuronal loss between idiopathic Parkinson disease with dementia and without dementia. Previous studies have demonstrated a decreased density of dopamine transporters (DAT) in basal ganglia in patients with idiopathic Parkinson disease (IPD) using I-n-fluoropropyl-2b-carbomethoxy-3b-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane (FP-CIT), and the reductions in striatal DAT levels were inversely correlated with the severity of motor dysfunction in IPD. However, there has been no study on the correlation of DAT levels between IPD patients with and without cognitive dysfunction. Thus, we evaluated the differences in regional DAT density in the brain of patients with IPD without dementia and those with dementia using FP-CIT positron emission tomography. We recruited 24 consecutive patients with IPD, including 7 with IPD without dementia and 17 with IPD with dementia, and 18 healthy controls. FP-CIT positron emission tomography scans were acquired 90 and 210 minutes after the FP-CIT injection. The DAT density did not differ in the caudate nucleus or the putamen between patients with IPD without dementia and those with dementia. However, the DAT density between the 2 groups with IPD demonstrated a significantly decreased density compared with that of healthy controls in the putamen. We cautiously suggest that there is no relationship between DAT density and cognitive severity because there were no significant differences in the DAT density between IPD with dementia and those without dementia."}
{"id": "15649484", "title": "Cholinergic nicotinic receptor involvement in movement disorders associated with Lewy body diseases. An autoradiography study using [(125)I]alpha-conotoxinMII in the striatum and thalamus.", "content": "Cholinergic nicotinic receptor involvement in movement disorders associated with Lewy body diseases. An autoradiography study using [(125)I]alpha-conotoxinMII in the striatum and thalamus. The presence of alpha6 subunit containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons has been demonstrated in rodents and monkeys. [(125)I]alpha-conotoxinMII is a radioligand that binds to alpha6, and also alpha3 subunits of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). In the present study, we have compared the distribution of [(125)I]alpha-conotoxinMII binding in post mortem human tissue from four groups of patients: individuals with dementia with Lewy bodies displaying extra-pyramidal features (DLB + EPF), DLB without extra-pyramidal features (DLB - EPF) Parkinson's disease without dementia (PD) and age-matched controls. Reduced binding was observed in the putamen and caudate in PD and both DLB groups. In DLB patients, the decline was greater in DLB + EPF compared to DLB - EPF group. The declines in nicotinic receptor binding in the striatum were in part paralleled by reductions in the striatal dopamine transporter. In the thalamus, [(125)I]alpha-conotoxinMII binding was significantly reduced in the centromedian nucleus in both DLB groups, and also in the parafascicular nucleus in the DLB - EPF group. In DLB + EPF and PD patients, there was decreased binding in the ventral lateral nucleus. This study demonstrates alterations of alpha6 and/or alpha3 nAChRs binding in DLB and PD, which are likely to relate to extra-pyramidal symptoms."}
{"id": "17611066", "title": "[Neuroimaging in dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in dementia]. Imaging is a part of the work-up for all types of dementia. X-ray computed tomography (CT) is a first-line examination to rule out causes of surgical, and thus reversible, dementia (for example, subdural hematoma or normal pressure hydrocephalus). MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is preferred for work-ups of dementia. In the neurodegenerative dementias, the topography of the atrophy provides information about the specific type: atrophy of the medial temporal lobe is predominant in Alzheimer disease, while atrophy of the frontal and anterior temporal lobes is seen in frontotemporal dementia, with less medial temporal atrophy than in Alzheimer disease for frontotemporal dementia; vascular dementia is marked by infarction, lacuna, and signal abnormalities in the white matter and sometimes microbleeding. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) are used in clinically atypical forms. Study of the dopamine transporter (DATscan) is used to distinguish Lewy body dementia from Alzheimer disease. Numerous studies are underway to identifying specific imaging markers for different types of dementia, including cerebral volumetric measurements, diffusion imaging, spectroscopy, very-high-field MRI scans of senile plaques, and PET markers of senile plaques."}
{"id": "20832974", "title": "[Perfusion brain SPECT and Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[Perfusion brain SPECT and Alzheimer disease]. Alzheimer Disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of degenerative dementia. There is an asymptomatic phase of the disease. Brain single photon computed tomography (SPECT) is a simple way to investigate the cerebral blood flow. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by hypoperfusion in the medial temporal, associative posterior parietal cortex and frontal cortex. Brain SPECT could also have an interest in the early detection of amnesic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients with a high risk of conversion to AD. Indeed, the hypoperfusion of the associative parietal cortex in MCI patients is considered predictive of a rapid conversion to AD. Different scintigraphic patterns of neurodegenerative dementias could be used for their differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "10506862", "title": "[\"Boxer's dementia\" without motor signs].", "content": "[\"Boxer's dementia\" without motor signs]. The neurological complications related to boxing include dementia. Boxer's dementia is generally associated with severe motor impairment. A former professional boxer presented dementia with no motor signs. The diagnostic discussion was based on clinical observations, and neuropsychological and supplementary explorations, and eliminated all other etiological hypotheses. This case draws attention to the possibility of cognitive disorders without motor impairment in the neurological complications of boxing."}
{"id": "21376506", "title": "[Brain SPECT in Lewy body dementia].", "content": "[Brain SPECT in Lewy body dementia]. Dementia of Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second cause of degenerative dementia. There is many clinical presentation of the disease. Brain single photon computed tomography (SPECT) is a simple way to investigate routinely the cerebral blood flow. On cerebral perfusion SPECT, DLB is accompanied by diffuse cortical hypoperfusion predominantly at the posterior cortex and may affect the associative and primary visual areas in relation to neuronal loss or dysfunction. DLB patients have striatal hypofixation on cerebral neurotranmission SPECT-DaTSCAN(\u00ae), related with dopaminergic loss. Brain SPECT is useful in the differential diagnosis between DLB and other dementia."}
{"id": "17555915", "title": "[Frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Frontotemporal dementia]. Frontotemporal dementia usually begins before the age of 65 years. It is manifested by behavioral and language disorders. The lesions observed in frontotemporal dementia affect the frontal and temporal lobes bilaterally. One third of patients have a psychiatric diagnosis at the onset of disease. The genetic component is important: 30-50% of patients have a family history of this disease. Cholinergic effects are not associated with frontotemporal dementia and therefore anticholinesterase treatment is not indicated."}
{"id": "10719444", "title": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis manifesting as cognitive disorders. Value of brain perfusion scintigraphic tomography in intensive care].", "content": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis manifesting as cognitive disorders. Value of brain perfusion scintigraphic tomography in intensive care]. Cognitive disorders have been described in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but usually after the diagnosis has ben established. A 57-year-old man was intubated for acute respiratory distress subsequent to pneumonia and diaphragm palsy. He had a 2-year history of drug-resistant depression and deterioration of cognitive functions. A pyramidal syndrome associated with biopsy-proven chronic neurogenic atrophy led to the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The electromyogram did not contribute to diagnosis. Brain MRI only evidenced moderate bilateral frontal-temporal atrophy. Brain SPECT demonstrated major perfusion defects in the frontal lobes. This patient had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontal-temporal dementia with an unusually late onset clinical presentation: cognitive disorder was the inaugural sign. Brain SPECT and muscle biopsy enabled us to identify the cortical and peripheral motor neurone involvement in this uncooperative intensive care patient totally dependent on mechanical ventilation."}
{"id": "23406746", "title": "Chronic impairment of the vagus nerve function leads to inhibition of dopamine but not serotonin neurons in rat brain structures.", "content": "Chronic impairment of the vagus nerve function leads to inhibition of dopamine but not serotonin neurons in rat brain structures. Recent clinical studies have shown that the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve is one of the brain areas that are the earliest affected by \u03b1-synuclein and Lewy body pathology in Parkinson's disease. This observation raises the question: how the vagus nerve dysfunction affects the dopamine system in the brain? The rats underwent surgical implantation of the microchip (MC) in the abdominal region of the vagus. In this study, we examined the effect of chronic, unilateral electrical stimulation of the left nerve vagus, of two different types: low-frequency (MCL) and physiological stimulation (MCPh) on the dopamine and serotonin metabolism determined by high-pressure chromatography with electrochemical detection in rat brain structures. MCL electrical stimulation of the left nerve vagus in contrast to MCPh stimulation, produced a significant inhibition of dopamine system in rat brain structures. Ex vivo biochemical experiments clearly suggest that MCL opposite to MCPh impaired the function of dopamine system similarly to vagotomy. We suggest a close relationship between the peripheral vagus nerve impairment and the inhibition of dopamine system in the brain structures. This is the first report of such relationship which may suggest that mental changes (pro-depressive) could occur in the first stage of Parkinson's disease far ahead of motor impairment."}
{"id": "23402681", "title": "Relapsing-remitting behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia in a bipolar patient.", "content": "Relapsing-remitting behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia in a bipolar patient. We report the case of a bipolar I patient who was diagnosed with frontotemporal dementia at the age of 54 during a manic episode. Her neurological state improved when this episode ended. Each subsequent thymic relapse was associated with cognitive de\ufb01cits which subsided when the patient became euthymic, even though SPECT continued to show the same frontal hypoperfusion. We here discuss the hypothesis that the cognitive reserve of this patient, a former journalist, may, except during her mood episodes, have provided her with suf\ufb01cient resources to meet her life demands despite her underlying neurological disorder."}
{"id": "23402204", "title": "[Normal database (NDB) of 123I-IMP brain perfusion SPECT examination is affected by statistical image analysis in the presence or absence of scatter correction and attenuation correction].", "content": "[Normal database (NDB) of 123I-IMP brain perfusion SPECT examination is affected by statistical image analysis in the presence or absence of scatter correction and attenuation correction]. The purpose of our study is the establishment of normal database (NDB) from persons (aged 50-80 years) for 3D-SSP analysis of 123I-IMP brain perfusion SPECT image, and we analyzed whether the presence or absence of image correction methods, scatter correction (SC) and attenuation correction (AC), affects the created NDB and 3D-SSP analysis. We created NDB from 63 healthy volunteers (32 males and 31 females, aged 50-80 years), and calculated the coefficient of variation for each pixel from the mean value and standard deviation. Next, we compared the visual assessments of the standard deviation images by each image correction method, and the coefficient of variation of SEE analysis in each part of the brain. Furthermore, we examined frontotemporal dementia and healthy volunteers by 3D-SSP analysis, and evaluated the differences of Z-score in the presence or absence of image correction methods. In NDB, the coefficient of variation was the minimum when SC and AC were not applied and the maximum in periventricular and cerebellum when SC and AC were applied. In Z-score image of 3D-SSP analysis, Z-score of the low value was the maximum when SC and AC were not applied. It was shown that the results from NDB coefficient of variation and 3D-SSP analysis were affected by the differences of image correction methods. It is important to understand the feature of imaging reconstruction conditions in your own facilities, and evaluate 3D-SSP analysis."}
{"id": "23210167", "title": "[The application of nuclear medicine imaging in neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry].", "content": "[The application of nuclear medicine imaging in neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry]. Analysis of use of nuclear medicine imaging (positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography) in diagnosis, differential diagnosis and evaluation of treatment efficacy of central nervous system diseases is presented in this review. The possibility of radionuclide imaging techniques in different variants of dementia, Parkinson's disease, brain tumors is demonstrated on the basis of personal authors experience and recent literature data. Results of PET application in evaluating of the effecacy of stereotactic interventions in patients with anxiety obsessive disorders are also described in the review."}
{"id": "23209065", "title": "[Depression and dementia: perspectives from clinical studies].", "content": "[Depression and dementia: perspectives from clinical studies]. In this review, we present an overview of clinical studies that addressed the relationship between depression and dementia or cognitive decline. Cross-sectional studies and meta-analyses have repeatedly shown an association between late-life depression (LLD) and dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia; however, the findings of cohort studies have been inconsistent. Furthermore, studies on the association between depression with a younger age of onset and dementia have yielded inconsistent results. Regarding cognitive decline associated with LLD, several studies have reported an association between LLD and mild cognitive impairment, suggesting that depression itself can cause persistent cognitive impairment. Other studies have compared the cognitive profile between LLD and depression with a younger age of onset, but their results have been inconclusive, especially regarding the association between memory impairment and the age of onset of depression. LLD is associated with vascular change and white matter degeneration of the brain, as shown by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Recently, several studies reported an association between gray matter change and LLD. Studies currently in progress employ functional brain imaging methods such as single-photon emission computed tomography, functional MRI, and positron emission tomography. Clinically, it is important to understand how subtypes of depression can be defined in terms of risk of developing dementia, and to devise effective treatments. One paper explored the possibility of detecting depression associated with AD by measuring the blood A\u03b240/A\u03b242 levels, and other studies have suggested that symptoms of apathy and loss of interest are associated with conversion of depression to AD. Unfortunately, current antidepressants may have limited efficacy on depression with dementia; therefore, further investigation for devising methods of predicting conversion of depression to dementia and subsequent treatment is required."}
{"id": "23196944", "title": "Complex visual manifestations of posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Complex visual manifestations of posterior cortical atrophy. We describe 5 patients with complex visual disturbances in the absence of ocular pathology who were ultimately diagnosed with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). The presence of visual cortical symptoms, neuroimaging findings and clinical evolution led to the diagnosis 1-5 years after the onset of visual symptoms. Age of onset ranged from 50-66 years. In 3 cases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated predominantly right posterior cortical atrophy. The other 2 patients had nonspecific MRI findings but the diagnosis was established given the findings on clinical examination and positron emission tomography (PET). All progressed to global dementia and an autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease in one patient. The possibility of PCA should be considered when a patient presents with complex visual symptoms in the absence of ocular pathology. Early neurological assessment may avoid diagnostic delay."}
{"id": "23196618", "title": "[Consideration of the pathogenesis of CARASIL].", "content": "[Consideration of the pathogenesis of CARASIL]. Cerebral small-vessel disease, a common disorder in the aged, causes dementia and disability of motor function. The molecular pathology of the disorder remains to be elucidated. Missense and nonsense mutations in the high-temperature requirement A serine peptidase 1 (HTRA1) gene cause cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CARASIL), a hereditary cerebral small-vessel disease. HTRA1 represses transforming growth factor-\u03b2 (TGF-\u03b2) signaling by its protease activity. CARASIL-associated mutant HTRA1s have decreased protease activity and fail to repress the TGF-\u03b2 signaling, raising the possibility that chronic upregulation in the signaling pathways are involved in the pathogenesis of CARASIL. Here we show that increased expression of LAP and ED-A fibronectin are limited to affected small arteries in patients with CARASIL. We also demonstrate that HTRA1 cleaves the pro-domain of proTGF-\u03b21 in the endoplasmic reticulum proceeding with processing by furin in trans Golgi network and reduces the amount of secreted TGF-\u03b21 and CARASIL-associated mutant HTRA1s cannot. These results indicate that HtrA1 suppresses TGF-\u03b2 signaling by aberrant processing of proTGF-\u03b2 and the dysregulation of the signaling caused by mutated HTRA1s is involved in the pathogensis of CARASIL."}
{"id": "23195421", "title": "Neuropathology in transplants in Parkinson's disease: implications for disease pathogenesis and the future of cell therapy.", "content": "Neuropathology in transplants in Parkinson's disease: implications for disease pathogenesis and the future of cell therapy. Neural transplantation is over a century old, but the modern era encompasses only the last 30-40 years. For most of this time period, research has focused on reversing disability engendered by neurologic disease and brain damage. Only recently was it recognized that the underlying neurological disease itself might negatively impact the grafted neurons. We have found that a subset of neurons within embryonic neural grafts that survive more than 10 years in Parkinson patients display Lewy bodies, a classical feature of Parkinson's disease neuropathology. Additionally, the grafted cells placed in the Parkinson's disease brain eventually downregulate the expression of dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase in a manner similar to what is seen in the substantia nigra dopamine neurons that are degenerating due to the disease. We discuss these findings in terms of how they might improve our understanding of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis and the effects they may have on the future of neural cell replacement strategies."}
{"id": "23185535", "title": "Evaluation of TorsinA as a target for Parkinson disease therapy in mouse models.", "content": "Evaluation of TorsinA as a target for Parkinson disease therapy in mouse models. Parkinson disease (PD) is a common and disabling disorder. No current therapy can slow or reverse disease progression. An important aspect of research in this field is target validation, a systematic approach to evaluating the likelihood that modification of a certain molecule, mechanism or biological pathway may be useful for the development of pharmacological or molecular treatments for the disease. TorsinA, a member of the AAA+ family of chaperone proteins, has been proposed as a potential target of neuroprotective therapy. TorsinA is found in Lewy bodies in human PD, and can suppress toxicity in cellular and invertebrate models of PD. Here, we evaluated the neuroprotective properties of torsinA in mouse models of PD based on intoxication with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) as well as recombinant adeno associated virus (rAAV) induced overexpression of alpha-synuclein (\u03b1-syn). Using either transgenic mice with overexpression of human torsinA (hWT mice) or mice in which torsinA expression was induced using an rAAV vector, we found no evidence for protection against acute MPTP intoxication. Similarly, genetic deletion of the endogenous mouse gene for torsinA (Dyt1) using an rAAV delivered Cre recombinase did not enhance the vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons to MPTP. Overexpression of \u03b1-syn using rAAV in the mouse substantia nigra lead to a loss of TH positive neurons six months after administration, and no difference in the degree of loss was observed between transgenic animals expressing forms of torsinA and wild type controls. Collectively, we did not observe evidence for a protective effect of torsinA in the mouse models we examined. Each of these models has limitations, and there is no single model with established predictive value with respect to the human disease. Nevertheless, these data do seem to support the view that torsinA is unlikely to be successfully translated as a target of therapy for human PD."}
{"id": "23161999", "title": "Pathological \u03b1-synuclein transmission initiates Parkinson-like neurodegeneration in nontransgenic mice.", "content": "Pathological \u03b1-synuclein transmission initiates Parkinson-like neurodegeneration in nontransgenic mice. Parkinson's disease is characterized by abundant \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn) neuronal inclusions, known as Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, and the massive loss of midbrain dopamine neurons. However, a cause-and-effect relationship between Lewy inclusion formation and neurodegeneration remains unclear. Here, we found that in wild-type nontransgenic mice, a single intrastriatal inoculation of synthetic \u03b1-Syn fibrils led to the cell-to-cell transmission of pathologic \u03b1-Syn and Parkinson's-like Lewy pathology in anatomically interconnected regions. Lewy pathology accumulation resulted in progressive loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, but not in the adjacent ventral tegmental area, and was accompanied by reduced dopamine levels culminating in motor deficits. This recapitulation of a neurodegenerative cascade thus establishes a mechanistic link between transmission of pathologic \u03b1-Syn and the cardinal features of Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "23142262", "title": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. The aim of this study was to review, summarize and analyze recent findings relevant to the contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provide accurate demonstration of the location and rate of progression of atrophic changes affecting the brain in AD and the different types of vascular lesions observed in mixed dementias and in pure VaD. Quantification of cortical thickness allows early diagnosis and rate of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. White matter involvement can also be quantified with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional methods including fMRI, functional connectivity, and MR spectroscopy (MRS). Isotope-based techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) allow measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism using (18)F-2-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Cerebral blood flow can be measured using PET with H(2)(15)O or with\u00a0single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) with technetium ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) or, more recently, arterial spin label (ASL) imaging. There are isotope markers for amyloid-beta ((11)O-PIB, (18)F-florbetapir), tau ((18)FDDNP) and activated microglia ((11)C-PK11195). Neuroimaging markers are particularly useful at the early symptomatic and preclinical asymptomatic phases of AD, as well as serving as endpoints in clinical trials."}
{"id": "23115214", "title": "Hippocampal perfusion predicts impending neurodegeneration in REM sleep behavior disorder.", "content": "Hippocampal perfusion predicts impending neurodegeneration in REM sleep behavior disorder. Patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (IRBD) are at risk for developing Parkinson disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We aimed to identify functional brain imaging patterns predicting the emergence of PD and DLB in patients with IRBD, using SPECT with (99m)Tc-ethylene cysteinate dimer (ECD). Twenty patients with IRBD were scanned at baseline during wakefulness using (99m)Tc-ECD SPECT. After a follow-up of 3 years on average, patients were divided into 2 groups according to whether or not they developed defined neurodegenerative disease (PD, DLB). SPECT data analysis comparing regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) between groups assessed whether specific brain perfusion patterns were associated with subsequent clinical evolution. Regression analysis between rCBF and clinical markers of neurodegeneration (motor, color vision, olfaction) looked for neural structures involved in this process. Of the 20 patients with IRBD recruited for this study, 10 converted to PD or DLB during the follow-up. rCBF at baseline was increased in the hippocampus of patients who would later convert compared with those who would not (p < 0.05 corrected). Hippocampal perfusion was correlated with motor and color vision scores across all IRBD patients. (99m)Tc-ECD SPECT identifies patients with IRBD at risk for conversion to other neurodegenerative disorders such as PD or DLB; disease progression in IRBD is predicted by abnormal perfusion in the hippocampus at baseline. Perfusion within this structure is correlated with clinical markers of neurodegeneration, further suggesting its involvement in the development of presumed synucleinopathies."}
{"id": "23037962", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementias.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementias. To critically review data on the use of neuroimaging tools in the clinical diagnostic investigation of dementias. For many years, the use of neuroimaging tools in the evaluation of dementias has been restricted to excluding neurosurgical lesions that may account for the cognitive decline. However, modern neuroimaging extends beyond this traditional role of excluding other conditions and has a key role in the clinical investigation of Alzheimer's disease and of other degenerative cortical dementias. MRI, PET with fluorodeoxyglucose, and single-photon emission computed tomography are topographic markers of neural damage and enable the identification of specific lesional patterns that characterize Alzheimer's disease and other cortical dementias. More recently, PET amyloid markers have enabled the in-vivo assessment of amyloid load, a key feature in the physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease. The combined use of neuroimaging examinations with clinical, neuropsychological, and cerebrospinal fluid markers can improve the specificity of the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, even at early stages of the disease. In the following years, progress in research will provide standardized and validated imaging markers of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, which may increase their application in clinical settings."}
{"id": "23034259", "title": "Association analysis of dopaminergic gene variants (Comt, Drd4 And Dat1) with Alzheimer s disease.", "content": "Association analysis of dopaminergic gene variants (Comt, Drd4 And Dat1) with Alzheimer s disease. Defects in dopaminergic transmission play important roles in the disturbance of synaptic plasticity and even in advanced cognitive behavior. However, the relationship between genes involved in the regulation of dopamine levels and predisposition for Alzheimer s disease (AD) remains unclear. The potential association of dopamine-modulating gene polymorphisms with AD was evaluated. We performed a case-control study with 120 patients and 86 healthy controls. Two catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs2020917 and rs4646312), two dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) SNPs (rs3758653 and rs916455), and four dopamine transporter (DAT1) SNPs (rs2937639, rs6347, rs12516948 and rs11133762) were investigated. The T allele at the DRD4 SNP (rs3758653) was found to be significantly associated with AD. Our results also showed that haplotype frequencies, observed from the analyzed SNPs, were distributed significantly differently in AD patients vs control subjects. Moreover, a strong association was observed between the A allele at rs6347 of DAT1 and moderate stage of dementia. These observations suggest that genetic variations in the dopamine-modulating genes, COMT, DRD4 and DAT1, may contribute to AD pathogenesis in the Taiwanese population."}
{"id": "23026363", "title": "Neuronuclear imaging in the evaluation of dementia and mild decline in cognition.", "content": "Neuronuclear imaging in the evaluation of dementia and mild decline in cognition. Recently, the National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association identified specific structural and functional neuroimaging findings as valuable markers of biological processes occurring in the human brain, especially processes that herald impending dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its prodromal form. In particular, the imaging modalities of magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography (PET) were singled out, along with certain biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid, to serve this purpose. We review the clinical tests available for neuropsychologic evaluation and in cases when the differential diagnosis for the causes of cognitive impairment is difficult to make, we consider biomarkers, beginning with cerebrospinal fluid, for assessment of cognitive decline. For more direct information on dementia-related pathologic changes in brain tissue, structural features observed in magnetic resonance imaging scans are regarded. We next discuss the use of single-photon emission computed tomography for evaluating functional changes. Then, pertinent to the recent National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association's consensus statement on the diagnosis of prodromal AD, we focus on assessing the cerebral metabolic changes associated with neurodegenerative diseases that are identified with fluorodeoxyglucose PET, as well as consider the most appropriate roles for amyloid imaging based on recent studies examining the use of PET with tracers having higher retention in brain tissue-harboring plaques composed of insoluble beta-amyloid. We also consider the leading causes for the current underuse of neuronuclear imaging in evaluating patients with cognitive problems, along with strategies for combating them. Finally, we suggest an overall diagnostic algorithm to guide optimal use of all the neuroimaging tools in assessing patients with cognitive decline."}
{"id": "23018627", "title": "Perfusion SPECT studies with mapping of Brodmann areas in differentiating Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal degeneration syndromes.", "content": "Perfusion SPECT studies with mapping of Brodmann areas in differentiating Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal degeneration syndromes. The aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies with mapping of Brodmann areas (BAs) in the differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal degeneration (FTLD) syndromes. Thirty-nine patients with AD and 73 patients with FTLD syndromes [behavioural variant FTLD (bvFTLD); language variant FTLD (lvFTLD), including semantic dementia (SD) and progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA); and corticobasal degeneration (CBD)/progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) syndromes] underwent brain perfusion SPECT. The NeuroGam software was used for the semiquantitative evaluation of perfusion in BAs of the left (L) and right (R) hemispheres. Compared with those in AD patients, BAs with statistically significant hypoperfusion were found in the prefrontal, orbitofrontal and cingulated cortices and Broca's areas of FTLD and bvFTLD patients; in the temporal and prefrontal cortices and Broca's areas of lvFTLD patients; in the left temporal gyrus of SD patients; in premotor and supplementary motor, prefrontal, orbitofrontal, temporal and anterior cingulated cortices and Broca's areas of PNFA patients; and in the prefrontal, temporal, posterior cingulated and primary and secondary visual cortices of CBD/PSP patients. BA 46R could differentiate AD patients from FTLD and bvFTLD patients; 21L and 25L were found to be independent predictors for lvFTLD in comparison with AD, and 25R, 21L and 23R could differentiate AD patients from PNFA, SD and CBD/PSP patients, respectively. Brain perfusion SPECT with BA mapping in AD and FTLD patients could improve the definition of brain areas that are specifically implicated in these disorders, resulting in a more accurate differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "22989905", "title": "[A 68 year-old man presenting ideomotor apraxia and incomplete Gerstmann syndrome with multiple cystic lesions in the left hemisphere].", "content": "[A 68 year-old man presenting ideomotor apraxia and incomplete Gerstmann syndrome with multiple cystic lesions in the left hemisphere]. A 68-year-old man was referred to our hospital with tension-type headaches and a 1-year history of dementia. On neurologic examination, he had ideomotor apraxia and incomplete Gerstmann syndrome that was characterized by acalculia, agraphia, and finger agnosia. On imaging, multiple cystic lesions reported as \"unusually dilated perivascular spaces\" were observed along the medullary arteries in the left hemisphere; some of them had adjacent hyperintense areas in fluid attenuated inversion recovery images. We assumed that the multiple cystic lesions caused his higher cerebral dysfunction, because ideomotor apraxia and Gerstmann syndrome are usually indicative of a left parietal lobe lesion. MR spectroscopy in the lesion site revealed increased lactate. On MR angiography, the left middle cerebral artery and the left posterior cerebral artery were poorly visualized without localized stenosis. Technetium-99 bicisate single-photon emission computed tomography showed severely decreased cerebral blood flow in the left hemisphere. Electroencephalography showed slow waves in the left hemisphere."}
{"id": "22980226", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow differences in patients with mild cognitive impairment between those who did and did not develop Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow differences in patients with mild cognitive impairment between those who did and did not develop Alzheimer's disease. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a heterogeneous condition associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias. This study aimed to identify areas of initial hypoperfusion in MCI conversion to AD using technetium (Tc-99m) hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (TC-99m HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to compare baseline cerebral hypoperfusion in converted MCI and non-converted MCI patients and normal controls. Forty-nine MCI patients were recruited for brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), detailed neuropsychological testing, Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT, and 1- to 2-year periodic follow-up to monitor progression to dementia status. We processed SPECT images with Statistical Parametric Mapping 8 (SPM8) software and performed voxel-based statistical parametric mapping analysis. Thirty-nine of 49 MCI patients were included in our analysis. Nine patients were diagnosed with conversion to AD, on average 19.0\u00b16.6 months after initial assessment. Compared with normal controls, converted MCI patients demonstrated perfusion deficits in both parahippocampal gyri and right precuneus, and non-converted MCI patients demonstrated hypoperfusion in the left parahippocampal gyrus. Compared with non-converted MCI patients, converted MCI patients demonstrated significant hypoperfusion in both cingulate gyri and right precuneus. Our study suggests that using brain SPECT to identify initial hypoperfusion in patients with MCI may be helpful for predicting MCI patients likely to develop AD."}
{"id": "22967747", "title": "Regional differences in cortical benzodiazepine receptors of Alzheimer, vascular, and mixed dementia patients.", "content": "Regional differences in cortical benzodiazepine receptors of Alzheimer, vascular, and mixed dementia patients. We examined regional benzodiazepine receptors (rBZR) using single photon emission CT (SPECT) in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), and mixed AD/VaD dementia (MD) and compared the changes in the availability of rBZR with those of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). A total of 7 patients with AD, 6 with MD, and 9 with VaD underwent SPECT studies with N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I] iodoamphetamine and (123)I-iomazenil to measure rCBF and rBZR. The ratios of rCBF and rBZR uptake in brain subregions to the average global activity were compared among these diseases. In addition, we acquired z-score maps using 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projections of SPECT data. Compared with AD, VaD and MD showed rCBF and rBZR reduction predominantly in the frontal lobe, but rBZR images revealed more extensive and severe defects than rCBF images. In contrast, AD showed rCBF and rBZR reduction predominantly in the parietotemporal lobe compared with VaD and MD, but rCBF images revealed more extensive defects than rBZR images. rCBF imaging can detect parietotemporal abnormalities in AD, while rBZR imaging may enable the demonstration of underlying pathophysiological differences in the frontal lobe between VaD, MD and AD, reflecting neuronal integrity in the cerebral cortex."}
{"id": "22961551", "title": "Neuropathological correlates of dopaminergic imaging in Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementias.", "content": "Neuropathological correlates of dopaminergic imaging in Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementias. Investigation of dopaminergic transporter loss in vivo using (123)I-N-fluoropropyl-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane single photon emission computed tomography has been widely used as a diagnostic aid in Lewy body disease. However, it is not clear whether the pathological basis for the imaging changes observed reflects loss of dopaminergic transporter expressing neurons because of cell death or dysfunctional neurons due to possible nigral and/or striatal neurodegenerative pathology. We aimed to investigate the influence of nigral neuronal loss as well as nigral (\u03b1-synuclein, tau) and striatal (\u03b1-synuclein, tau, amyloid \u03b2) pathology on striatal uptake in a cohort of autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer's disease (n = 4), dementia with Lewy bodies (n = 7) and Parkinson's disease dementia (n = 12) cases. Subjects underwent ante-mortem dopaminergic scanning and post-mortem assessments (mean interval 3.7 years). Striatal binding (caudate, anterior and posterior putamen) was estimated using region of interest procedures while quantitative neuropathological measurements of \u03b1-synuclein, tau and amyloid \u03b2 were carried out. Similarly, nigral neuronal density was assessed quantitatively. Stepwise linear regression was performed to identify significant pathological predictors of striatal binding. In all striatal regions, image uptake was associated with nigral dopaminergic neuronal density (P \u2264 0.04) but not \u03b1-synuclein (P \u2265 0.46), tau (P \u2265 0.18) or amyloid \u03b2 (P \u2265 0.22) burden. The results suggest that reduced uptake in vivo may be influenced considerably by neuronal loss rather than the presence of pathological lesions, in particular those related to Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementias. However, dysfunctional nigral neurons may have an additional effect on striatal uptake in vivo but their respective role remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "22941841", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of mixed dementia].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of mixed dementia]. Vascular dementia (VaD)--secondary to cerebrovascular disease (CVD)--has been traditionally distinguished from Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is a purely neurodegenerative form of dementia. However, CVDs such as lacunes and white matter lesions are common in patients with AD, whereas certain pathological changes of AD, including senile plaques and tangles, are observed in elderly patients with VaD. These findings indicate that mixed vascular-degenerative dementia (MD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. In the treatment and prevention of dementia, the accurate diagnosis of each individual type of dementia is vital. However, recognizing the distinction between these diseases can be difficult in clinical practice. This article provides an overview of MD, including the incidence, diagnosis, and treatment. In particular, we emphasize that functional brain imaging, including perfusion single photon emission computed tomography and benzodiazepine receptor binding measurement, in combination with morphological imaging (such as magnetic resonance imaging) is useful for distinguishing AD, VaD and MD. In addition to antiplatelet medications, cholinesterase inhibitors and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid antagonists may be effective in treating MD. Moreover the vascular risk factors also should be treated appropriately. The article describes the need for further studies to develop a better understanding of MD."}
{"id": "22939818", "title": "Cognitive disconnective syndrome by single strategic strokes in vascular dementia.", "content": "Cognitive disconnective syndrome by single strategic strokes in vascular dementia. Strategic regions correspond to associative, limbic and paralimbic structures and related circuits, that underpin cognitive/behavioral functions. Strokes in these eloquent sites produce pictures of vascular dementia with syndromic features due to specific site lesion and/or interruption of their interconnections. This study aims at analysing subcortical strategic strokes that express similar cognitive/behavioral elements, by sharing common pathways. Patients (n=6) who attended in specialized ambulatory, were submitted to neuropsychological and neuroimaging assessments through MRI (GE Signa Horizon 1.5T) and brain SPECT (Millennium MG, ECD [TC-99m]). Stroke locations and respective main symptoms were: 1. anteromedian thalamus [L]: anterograde and retrograde amnesia (ARA), expression aphasia (EA), executive dysfunction (ED), apathy, and depression; 2. anterior thalamus [R]: ARA, inattention, apathy, and aggressiveness; 3. dorsomedian thalamus [L]: inattention, ED, anosognosia, and aggressiveness; 4. central paramedian thalamus [R]: EA, visual perception deficits (VPD), ED, infantility, and personality disorder; 5. caudate nucleus (ventral-head) [L]: VPD, ED, delirium, visual hallucinations, and personality disorder; and 6. anterior capsule [L]: VPD, ED, apathy, and depression. Vascular strategic syndromes connote the predominantly impaired cognitive/behavioral symptom of each site. Temporal and frontal disconnection symptoms were produced by disrupted MTT/hippocampal and IML/amygdala circuits expressing amnesic syndrome associated with heterogeneous dysexecutive syndrome, in all the cases, by disrupting frontal-basal ganglia-thalamus-cortical net, in three different levels of their pathway."}
{"id": "22931754", "title": "Genetic animal models for evaluating the role of autophagy in etiopathogenesis of Parkinson disease.", "content": "Genetic animal models for evaluating the role of autophagy in etiopathogenesis of Parkinson disease. Parkinson disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder and is characterized pathologically by the formation of ubiquitin and SNCA/\u03b1-synuclein-containing inclusions (Lewy bodies), dystrophic midbrain dopaminergic (DAergic) terminals, and degeneration of midbrain DAergic neurons. The vast majority of PD occurs sporadically, while approximately 5% of all PD cases are inherited. Genetic mutations of a few genes have been identified as causes of familiar PD, i.e., mutations in SNCA, PARK2/parkin, UCHL1, PARK7/DJ1, PINK1 and LRRK2, leading to DAergic cell death, but variable pathological changes. The evidence supports the hypothesis that several pathogenic mechanisms are likely involved at initial stages of the disease, and eventually they merge to cause parkinsonism. The current challenge facing PD research is to unravel the components in these pathways that contribute to the pathogenesis of PD. Accumulating evidence has implicated dysfunctional autophagy, a regulated lysosomal pathway with a capacity for clearing protein aggregates and cellular organelles, as one of the pathogenic systems contributing to the development of idiopathic PD."}
{"id": "22929226", "title": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging.", "content": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging. As the world population ages, the incidence of dementing illnesses will dramatically increase. The number of people afflicted with dementia is expected to quadruple in the next 50 years. Since the neuropathology of the dementias precedes clinical symptoms often by several years, earlier detection and intervention could be key steps to mitigating the progression and burden of these diseases. This review will explore methods of evaluating, differentiating, and diagnosing the multiple forms of dementia. Particular emphasis will be placed on the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment-the precursor to dementia. Anatomical imaging; cerebrospinal fluid markers; functional neuroimaging, such as positron emission tomography and single photon emission tomography; and molecular imaging, such as amyloid marker imaging, will be assessed in terms of sensitivity and specificity. Cost will also be a consideration, as the growing population afflicted with dementia represents an increasingly large financial encumbrance to the healthcare systems of every nation. In the face of expensive new markers and limited availability of cyclotrons, single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) provides relatively high sensitivity and specificity at a comparatively low overall cost."}
{"id": "22922592", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of statistical pattern recognition of electroencephalogram registration in evaluation of cognitive impairment and dementia.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of statistical pattern recognition of electroencephalogram registration in evaluation of cognitive impairment and dementia. There is still a need for simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive methods to diagnose the causes of cognitive impairment and dementia. In this study, contemporary statistical methods were used to classify the clinical cases of cognitive impairment based on electroencephalograms (EEG). An EEG database was established from seven different groups of subjects with cognitive impairment and dementia as well as healthy controls. A classifier was created for each possible pair of groups using statistical pattern recognition (SPR). A good-to-excellent separation was found when differentiating cases of degenerative disorders from controls, vascular disorders, and depression but this was less so when the likelihood of comorbidity was high. Using EEG with SPR seems to be a reliable method for diagnosing the causes of cognitive impairment and dementia, but comorbidity must be taken into account."}
{"id": "22915704", "title": "[Operative neurosurgery: Personal view and historical backgrounds. (10) Microneurosurgery and PET scan: clinical experience of a neurosurgeon].", "content": "[Operative neurosurgery: Personal view and historical backgrounds. (10) Microneurosurgery and PET scan: clinical experience of a neurosurgeon]. During the author's clinical activity at three institutes : Kyoto University Hospital (Kyoto 1965-1969, 1977-1985), National Cardiovascular Center NCVC (Osaka 1986-1992) and Zurich University Hospital (Zurich 1970-1976, 1993-2007), He has experienced (underlined periods) working with PET scan and SPECT in relation to microsurgical treatment. The following describes how and for what the author has been engaged in this regard. 1. As preparation for the work with PET, SPECT with a rotating gamma camera was used to know blood distribution with the use of Kr-81m infusion from a selectively located catheter in the ICA, ECA or VA, e.g. to know the flow distribution of a newly constructed EC-IC bypass, which was quite separated from and not mixed up with that of already functioning inherent collaterals (Fig. 1). 2. With the use of inhalation PET scan (15O labelled CO2 and O2 inhalation and 15O CO inhalation) basic knowledge of hemodynamics of MMD was acquired (Fig. 2) 3. With the use of H215 O-PET scan with DiamoxR loading, indication for and effectiveness of EC-IC bypass surgery for occlusive cerebrovascular disease (atherosclerosis (anterior circulation (Fig. 5), posterior circulation (Fig. 6, 7)), MMD (Fig. 9), congenital disease (Fig. 8) have been settled or demonstrated. 4. In epileptic seizures, interictally or intraictally, the active locus has been identified by the use of FDG-PET, flumazenil-PET, H 2 15 O or 13 NH 3-PET respectively (Fig. 12). In this relation, selective Wada test with the use of Tc-99 m-ECD selective infusion together with Amytal R through a catheter inserted selectively into the anterior choroidal artery is an important preoperative test for the SAHE (Fig. 13). 5. FDG-PET and/or tyrosine PET supply important clues concerning appropriate surgical treatment strategy, and also for intractable glioblastoma or high grade glioma, so that in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy one may expect more excellent long term outcome with good quality of life (Fig. 16, 17). Furthermore, there must be cases with dementia in which some revascularization procedure might be of help, for which FDG-and H 2 15O-PET could be helpful for differential diagnosis and indication of surgery (Fig. 18)."}
{"id": "22914831", "title": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism.", "content": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. Imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with PET and striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptors (D2R) with SPECT improves the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. We prospectively investigated 1) the diagnostic merits of these approaches in differentiating between Lewy body diseases (LBD; majority Parkinson disease [PD]) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APS); 2) the diagnostic value of [\u00b9\u2078F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET to differentiate among APS subgroups. Ninety-five of 107 consecutive patients with clinically suspected APS referred for imaging were recruited. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET scans were analyzed by visual assessment (including individual voxel-based statistical maps). Based on a priori defined disease-specific patterns, patients with putative APS were differentiated from LBD (first level) and allocated to the subgroups multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), or corticobasal degeneration (CBD) (second level). [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I] iodobenzamide (IBZM)-SPECT datasets were subjected to an observer-independent regions-of-interest analysis to assess striatal D2R availability. Movement disorder specialists made final clinical diagnoses after a median follow-up time of 12 months. Seventy-eight patients with clinically verified APS (n = 44) or LBD (n = 34) were included in the statistical analysis. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for discrimination between APS and LBD was significantly larger for [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET (0.94) than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT (0.74; p = 0.0006). Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for diagnosing APS was 86%/91%, respectively. Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET in identifying APS subgroups was 77%/97% for MSA, 74%/95% for PSP, and 75%/92% for CBD. The diagnostic accuracy of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for discriminating LBD from APS is considerably higher than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET reliably differentiates APS subgroups."}
{"id": "22902293", "title": "Neuroanatomical correlates of behavioural phenotypes in behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Neuroanatomical correlates of behavioural phenotypes in behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia. Behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) frequently presents complex behavioural changes, that rarely occur in isolation. Targeting behavioural phenotypes instead of single behavioural symptoms may potentially provide a disease model in which to investigate brain substrates of behavioural abnormalities. To identify behavioural phenotypes and to assess the associated brain correlates in a cohort of patients with bvFTD. Two hundred and seven consecutive individuals fulfilling clinical criteria for bvFTD were enrolled. Each participant's caregiver completed frontal behavioural inventory on 24 key behavioural disturbances. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) models were applied, and behavioural phenotypes identified. For each phenotype, a score was derived based on the \"best\" CFA model (Bifactor CFA). One hundred two participants underwent SPECT scan. A regression analysis between scores for each factor and regional cerebral blood flow was carried out (P<0.001). One \"general\" behavioural phenotype and four factors were identified, that were termed \"disinhibited\", \"apathetic\", \"aggressive\", and \"language\" phenotypes. The most robust brain correlate was identified for \"disinhibited\" phenotype, in the region of the anterior cingulated and anterior temporal cortex, bilaterally, and for apathetic phenotype in the left dorsolateral frontal cortex. As expected, language phenotype correlated with greater hypoperfusion in the left frontotemporal lobes. No significant correlation between aggressive phenotype and regional cerebral blood flow was found. Moreover, the \"general\" behavioural severity was associated with greater damage in the right frontal lobe. Behavioural phenotypes are associated with specific brain damage in bvFTD, involving distinct cerebral networks."}
{"id": "22901967", "title": "Prevalence of Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome with dementia in a memory clinic.", "content": "Prevalence of Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome with dementia in a memory clinic. Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome (SS) is an autoimmune disorder involving the exocrine glands, which affects 1.9-3.0% of the elderly population. Approximately 20% of all patients with SS have CNS involvement, including dementia, as a result of angiitis. The aim of the study was to clarify the prevalence and impact of SS among patients in a memory clinic. This study prospectively recruited patients with cognitive dysfunction in a memory clinic from 2007 to 2010. In addition to the examinations for dementia, the patients' levels of anti-SSA and SSB antibodies were measured. Schirmer's test and/or a lip biopsy were added if required. SS was diagnosed based on the American European consensus criteria. Out of 276 cases who completed the examinations, 265 (97/168 males/females, mean age: 77.9, median MMSE score: 23) did not demonstrated cognitive decline. Sixteen (6.3%) and seven (2.7%) patients were positive for anti-SS-A and SS-B antibodies, respectively. Twenty patients (7.5%) were diagnosed with primary SS (mean age: 77.2 years old, median MMSE: 21). Seven of these patients had previously been diagnosed with MCI (VCIND: 5, aMCI: 2), and 13 had been diagnosed with dementia. All had asymmetrical focal hypoperfusion on SPECT, and eighteen had subcortical lesions on MRI. Twelve were treated for dementia (median time: 2.1 years), and their MMSE significantly improved (median MMSE: 26, p=0.0019), while the non-SS subjects' MMSE declined (n=126, median: 22). The patients with SS accounted for 7.5% of those with a cognitive decline as determined at a memory clinic, and are characterized by subcortical white matter lesions and asymmetric hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "22895156", "title": "In ovo electroporation in chick midbrain for studying gene function in dopaminergic neuron development.", "content": "In ovo electroporation in chick midbrain for studying gene function in dopaminergic neuron development. Dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral midbrain control movement, emotional behavior, and reward mechanisms. The dysfunction of ventral midbrain dopaminergic neurons is implicated in Parkinson's disease, Schizophrenia, depression, and dementia. Thus, studying the regulation of midbrain dopaminergic neuron differentiation could not only provide important insight into mechanisms regulating midbrain development and neural progenitor fate specification, but also help develop new therapeutic strategies for treating a variety of human neurological disorders. Dopaminergic neurons differentiate from neural progenitors lining the ventricular zone of embryonic ventral midbrain. The development of neural progenitors is controlled by gene expression programs. Here we report techniques utilizing electroporation to express genes specifically in the midbrain of Hamburger Hamilton (HH) stage 11 (thirteen somites, 42 hours) chick embryos. The external development of chick embryos allows for convenient experimental manipulations at specific embryonic stages, with the effects determined at later developmental time points. Chick embryonic neural tubes earlier than HH stage 13 (nineteen somites, 48 hours) consist of multipotent neural progenitors that are capable of differentiating into distinct cell types of the nervous system. The pCAG vector, which contains both a CMV promoter and a chick \u03b2-actin enhancer, allows for robust expression of Flag or other epitope-tagged constructs in embryonic chick neural tubes. In this report, we emphasize special measures to achieve regionally restricted gene expression in embryonic midbrain dopaminergic neuron progenitors, including how to inject DNA constructs specifically into the embryonic midbrain region and how to pinpoint electroporation with small custom-made electrodes. Analyzing chick midbrain at later stages provides an excellent in vivo system for plasmid vector-mediated gain-of-function and loss-of-function studies of midbrain development. Modification of the experimental system may extend the assay to other parts of the nervous system for performing fate mapping analysis and for investigating the regulation of gene expression."}
{"id": "22885599", "title": "Lysosomal dysfunction in Parkinson disease: ATP13A2 gets into the groove.", "content": "Lysosomal dysfunction in Parkinson disease: ATP13A2 gets into the groove. Mutations in ATP13A2 (PARK9) cause an autosomal recessive form of early-onset parkinsonism with pyramidal degeneration and dementia called Kufor-Rakeb Syndrome (KRS). The ATP13A2 gene encodes a transmembrane lysosomal P5-type ATPase (ATP13A2) whose physiological function in mammalian cells, and hence its potential role in Parkinson disease (PD), remains elusive. In this context, we have recently shown that KRS-linked mutations in ATP13A2 leads to several lysosomal alterations in ATP13A2 KRS patient-derived fibroblasts, including impaired lysosomal acidification, decreased proteolytic processing of lysosomal enzymes, reduced degradation of lysosomal substrates and diminished lysosomal-mediated clearance of autophagosomes (AP). Similar alterations are observed in stable ATP13A2-knockdown dopaminergic cell lines, which are associated with cell death. Restoration of ATP13A2 levels in ATP13A2-mutant/depleted cells is able to restore lysosomal function and attenuate cell death. Relevant to PD, we have determined that ATP13A2 levels are decreased in dopaminergic nigral neurons from sporadic PD patients. Interestingly in these patients, the main signal of ATP13A2 is detected in the Lewy bodies. Our results unravel an instrumental role of ATP13A2 in lysosomal function and in cell viability. Altogether, our results validate ATP13A2 as a likely therapeutic target against PD degeneration."}
{"id": "22879086", "title": "A potential protective effect in multilingual patients with semantic dementia: two case reports of patients speaking Taiwanese and Japanese.", "content": "A potential protective effect in multilingual patients with semantic dementia: two case reports of patients speaking Taiwanese and Japanese. Several reports have suggested that multilingualism has a protective effect against semantic dementia. Here, we provide further evidence for this effect. The patient was a 75-year-old right-handed Taiwanese woman who had retired after working as a tailor. She was able to speak Taiwanese, Japanese and Mandarin Chinese fluently until 5 years ago. She gradually developed symptoms of profound anomia and difficulty with word-finding. Her mother tongue was Taiwanese and she had learned Japanese as her first symbolized language. She had used Mandarin Chinese for most of her life, but depended on Japanese to read and write (such as reading a newspaper and keeping accounts). However, she could now speak only very simple Taiwanese and Japanese, and could recognize only simple Japanese characters. SECOND: The patient was a 62-year-old right-handed man who had worked as an ironworker. He could speak Taiwanese and Mandarin Chinese fluently until 5 years ago. His mother tongue was Taiwanese. After 5 years of language deterioration, he was unable to communicate with his family members or recognize any characters, including numbers. SPECT RESULTS: Brain perfusion ECD SPECT (Tc-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography) showed less perfusion in the multilingual patient (Case #1) than in the bilingual patient (Case #2). Neuropsychological tests also demonstrated a slower rate of degeneration in the multilingual patient. We speculate that reading and writing in Japanese had a greater impact on the semantic system in Case #1. Thus, this patient showed relatively less degeneration or functional inactivity, as shown by perfusion in the frontal lobe, and this might be due to the persistent activation involved in multilingualism."}
{"id": "22869921", "title": "Differentiation of frontotemporal dementia from dementia with Lewy bodies using FP-CIT SPECT.", "content": "Differentiation of frontotemporal dementia from dementia with Lewy bodies using FP-CIT SPECT. There is increasing evidence that imaging with [123I]FP-CIT SPECT is helpful in differentiating dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) but it is not known how well the scan performs in differentiating DLB from frontotemporal dementia (FTD). We compared the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) binding in FTD (n=12), DLB (n=10) and AD (n=9) by visually rating the caudate and putamen on [123I]FP-CIT SPECT scans. The majority (9/10) of DLB cases had an abnormal scan and a significant reduction of uptake of DAT binding in the putamen and the caudate. A third (4/12) of the FTD cases also had an abnormal scan and a significant reduction in uptake in the putamen and the caudate. In contrast, only one out of nine AD cases had an abnormal scan. Significant differences were found when comparisons were made between the groups for visual analysis of the entire scan (p=0.001) and the four regions of interest (p=0.001 - 0.013). In contrast to the AD group (specificity of scan 89%), the specificity of [123I]FP-CIT SPECT scans was reduced in the FTD group to 67%. Three quarters of the study population had at least one extrapyramidal motor sign (EPMS), with bradykinesia being the most common EPMS in both FTD (83%) and DLB (70%). This study highlights to clinicians that a positive (abnormal) [123I]FP-CIT SPECT scan, even in a patient with an EPMS, does not exclude the diagnosis of FTD and emphasises the importance of a comprehensive clinical evaluation and a detailed cognitive assessment."}
{"id": "22869920", "title": "Biomarkers for dementia diagnosis: differentiating DLB and FTD may be difficult.", "content": "Biomarkers for dementia diagnosis: differentiating DLB and FTD may be difficult."}
{"id": "22868886", "title": "[An autopsied case of corticobasal degeneration with onset of nonfluent aphasia revealing symmetrical cerebral involvement].", "content": "[An autopsied case of corticobasal degeneration with onset of nonfluent aphasia revealing symmetrical cerebral involvement]. Herein we describe a patient with established corticobasal degeneration with onset of nonfluent aphasia and showing symmetrical cerebral involvement. A 64-year-old man with a speech disorder for 2 years visited our hospital. He had nonfluent aphasia (reduced spontaneous speech, loss of intonation, anomia, repetition disorder, and difficulty in speaking short sentences). He also showed right-sided motor neglect, hypertonus of the left lower limb, a mask-like facial expression, and difficulty in closing his eyes. He was restless and walked around even during examination, suggesting frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) revealed symmetrical reduction of cerebral blood flow in the bilateral fronto-temporo-parietal lobes. His neurological condition deteriorated gradually and a year later he could not speak comprehensive sentences. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head at age 70 showed symmetrical atrophy of the bilateral fronto-temporal lobes. He died of respiratory failure after clinical problems lasting ten years. On pathological examination, the fixed brain weighed 1,010 g and showed bilateral symmetrical atrophy of the frontal lobes. Histopathological examination revealed neuronal loss and gliosis in the frontal lobes, especially in the frontal convexity, superior frontal gyrus and precentral gyrus. Gallyas-Braak silver staining showed astrocytic plaques, argyrophilic threads and coiled bodies mainly in the frontal lobes. The substantia nigra showed severe neuronal loss on both sides and presence of free melanin. Pathological diagnosis was corticobasal degeneration (CBD). We believe that the patient had nonfluent aphasia and FTD reflected in bilateral degeneration of the frontal lobes. Some cases of CBD may present with symmetrical degeneration of the brain, even though left-hemisphere symptoms such as aphasia reveal themselves at an early stage."}
{"id": "22849990", "title": "[Remission of lymphomatosis cerebri induced by corticosteroid and high-doses intravenous methotrexate].", "content": "[Remission of lymphomatosis cerebri induced by corticosteroid and high-doses intravenous methotrexate]. Lymphomatosis cerebri (LC) is a rare form of primary central nervous system lymphoma characterized by subacute progressive dementia and unsteady gait. MRI study of LC typically reveals diffuse leukoencephalopathy without contrast enhancement. The clinical presentation and MRI features of LC can resemble infectious, inflammatory, toxic or vascular leukoencephalopathy. Hence diagnosis of LC is easily mistaken for other, more common diseases. In this report, we present a case of a 55-year-old man presenting with subacute progressive dementia and ataxic gait. Brain MRI showed diffuse hyperintense lesions in the cerebral white matter of both hemispheres, left amygdala, brainstem and cerebellar peduncles on FLAIR image. No contrast-enhanced lesion was observed. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed elevated levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor and \u03b22-microglobulin. Based on MRI findings and 123I-IMP SPECT, stereotactic biopsy targeting white matter of the left medial temporal lobe was performed (day 0). On the day after the brain biopsy, corticosteroid therapy was initiated and improved the patient's cognitive function and gait disturbance. Pathological diagnosis of large B-cell lymphoma was obtained on day 9. High-dose intravenous methotrexate chemotherapy was started on day 14 and led to complete remission by day 52. This case highlighted the importance of brain biopsy for diagnosis of LC. This report raises a possibility that timely and proper treatment leads to a favorable outcome of LC that has been regarded as an intractable disease with poor prognosis."}
{"id": "22817828", "title": "Effect of a phytopharmaceutical medicine, Ginko biloba extract 761, in an animal model of Parkinson's disease: therapeutic perspectives.", "content": "Effect of a phytopharmaceutical medicine, Ginko biloba extract 761, in an animal model of Parkinson's disease: therapeutic perspectives. Ginkgo Biloba extract 761 (EGb 761) is a patented and well-defined mixture of active compounds extracted from Ginkgo biloba leaves. This extract contains two main groups of active compounds, flavonoids (24%) and terpenoids (6%). EGb 761 is used clinically to treat dementia and vaso-occlusive and cochleovestibular disorders. This extract has neuroprotective effects, exerted probably by means of its antioxidant function. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects 2% of the population older than 60 y. It produces a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons and depletion of dopamine (DA), leading to movement impairment. The production of reactive oxygen species, which act as mediators of oxidative damage, is linked to PD. This disease is routinely treated with the DA precursor, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine. However, this produces severe side effects, and its neurotoxic properties can be due to a free radical production. Thus, administration of antioxidant drugs might be used to prevent neuronal death produced by oxidative mechanisms. The use of synthetic antioxidants has decreased because of their suspected activity as carcinogenic promoters. We describe the studies related to the antioxidant effect of EGb 761 in an animal model of PD. It has been shown that EGb761 can provide a neuroprotective/neurorecovery effect against the damage to midbrain DA neurons in an animal model of PD. EGb 761 also has been found to lessen the impairment of locomotion, correlating with an increase of DA and other morphologic and biochemical parameters related to its antioxidant effect in an animal model of PD. These studies suggest it as an alternative in the future treatment of PD."}
{"id": "22807188", "title": "C9ORF72 expansion in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal dementia also causes parkinsonism.", "content": "C9ORF72 expansion in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal dementia also causes parkinsonism."}
{"id": "22797130", "title": "Nature versus nurture in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: the interaction of genetic background and education on brain damage.", "content": "Nature versus nurture in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: the interaction of genetic background and education on brain damage. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with a strong genetic background. It has been reported that modifiable factors, i.e. education (E), might act as proxies for reserve capacity. To evaluate the impact of genetic background (positive family history, FH) on reserve mechanisms, by measuring regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) correlates in FTLD patients. 145 FTLD patients were recruited and underwent clinical, neuropsychological, behavioral assessment, and SPECT study. The main effect of E and FH on rCBF was evaluated. To test the potential interaction between the E and rCBF in FTLD patients with or without positive FH, a difference of slope analysis in the two groups was calculated. All the analyses were controlled for disease severity (Clinical Dementia Rating Scale, FTD-CDR). A main effect of education (E+ < E-) in frontal regions was reported, and high genetic loading (FH+ < FH-) was associated with a greater bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion. Evaluating the relationship between E and rCBF, a greater hypoperfusion of cingulate region in FH+ as compared to FH- was observed. Reserve mechanisms are available also in presence of an unfavorable genetic status. However, these compensatory mechanisms are modulated by the interaction with genetic factors."}
{"id": "22791632", "title": "Brain perfusion anomalies in rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Brain perfusion anomalies in rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder with mild cognitive impairment. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder is an important risk factor for Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Approximately 50% of patients with REM sleep behavior disorder have mild cognitive impairment. Our objective was to investigate brain perfusion changes associated with mild cognitive impairment in REM sleep behavior disorder. Twenty patients with REM sleep behavior disorder, including 10 patients with mild cognitive impairment and 10 patients without mild cognitive impairment, and 20 healthy controls underwent a complete neuropsychological assessment and single-photon emission computerized tomography using (99mc) Tc-Ethylene Cysteinate Dimer. Compared with controls, both REM sleep behavior disorder groups had hypoperfusion in the frontal regions. In addition, patients with REM sleep behavior disorder and mild cognitive impairment showed cortical hypoperfusion in the occipital, temporal, and parietal regions compared with controls and patients with REM sleep behavior disorder without mild cognitive impairment. Both REM sleep behavior disorder groups had hyperperfusion in the right hippocampus and parahippocampal gyri. However, patients with REM sleep behavior disorder and mild cognitive impairment showed more pronounced anomalies in the right hippocampus and had increased perfusion in the putamen and the left paracentral gyrus. This study showed specific patterns of posterior cortical hypoperfusion and hyperperfusion in some brain areas in patients with REM sleep behavior disorder and mild cognitive impairment, similar to those found in Parkinson's disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. This suggests the presence of an identifiable neuroimaging marker of synucleinopathy in REM sleep behavior disorder with mild cognitive impairment. \u00a9 2012 Movement Disorder Society."}
{"id": "22785390", "title": "Analysis of regional cerebral blood flow data to discriminate among Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and elderly controls: a multi-block barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) methodology.", "content": "Analysis of regional cerebral blood flow data to discriminate among Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and elderly controls: a multi-block barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) methodology. We present a generalization of mean-centered partial least squares correlation called multiblock barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) that integrates multiple regions of interest (ROIs) to analyze functional brain images of cerebral blood flow or metabolism obtained with SPECT or PET. To illustrate MUBADA we analyzed data from 104 participants comprising Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients, and elderly normal controls. Brain images were analyzed via 28 ROIs (59,845 voxels) selected for clinical relevance. This is a discriminant analysis (DA) question with several blocks (one per ROI) and with more variables than observations, a configuration that precludes using DA. MUBADA revealed two factors explaining 74% and 26% of the total variance: Factor 1 isolated FTD, and Factor 2 isolated AD. A random effects model correctly classified 64% (chance = 33%) of \"new\" participants (p < 0.0001). MUBADA identified ROIs that best discriminated groups: ROIs separating FTD were bilateral inferior, middle frontal, left inferior, and middle temporal gyri, while ROIs separating AD were bilateral thalamus, inferior parietal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, left precuneus, middle frontal, and middle temporal gyri. MUBADA classified participants at levels comparable to standard methods (i.e., SVM, PCA-LDA, and PLS-DA) but provided information (e.g., discriminative ROIs and voxels) not easily accessible to these methods."}
{"id": "22773150", "title": "Correlation between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in degenerative dementia.", "content": "Correlation between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in degenerative dementia. Chronic low serum vitamin D concentrations are common among the elderly. Recent studies have suggested that its metabolite, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD), might be important for preserving cognitive functions through specific brain protective effects. However, this hypothesis is still under discussion. The aim of this study was to assess the correlation between serum 25-OHD concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia of Lewy bodies (DLB). Radionuclide brain single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) images and 25-OHD dosage in noninstitutionalized patients were obtained within 14 days. SPECT/CT examination was carried out using technetium-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer in 20 consecutive patients (12 AD and eight DLB). Reconstructed images were spatially normalized using Statistical Parametric Mapping version 5 software to a default SPECT template. Voxel-based multiple regression correlation analyses, with age and mini mental state examination scores as confounding factors, were carried out. Findings were considered significant for a threshold P-value less than 0.01 (corrected at cluster level). A positive correlation was found between 25-OHD concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in the left precuneus cortex (Talairach coordinates: -14, -42, 63) in AD patients. No correlation was detected in DLB patients. The results of this study confirm the relationship between 25-OHD concentrations and AD and therefore underline the hypothesis of a potential neuroprotective effect against brain degeneration. These encouraging findings need to be confirmed by larger prospective correlation series."}
{"id": "22771809", "title": "\u03b1-Synuclein modulates neurite outgrowth by interacting with SPTBN1.", "content": "\u03b1-Synuclein modulates neurite outgrowth by interacting with SPTBN1. \u03b1-Synuclein is the major component of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, the pathological hallmarks of surviving neuronal cells in Parkinson's disease patients. However, the physiological role played by \u03b1-synuclein remains unclear. In this study, spectrin beta non-erythrocyte 1 (SPTBN1) interacted with \u03b1-synuclein in phage display assays using a normalized human brain cDNA library. A direct interaction between \u03b1-synuclein and SPTBN1 was confirmed by GST pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays. SPTBN1 and \u03b1-synuclein proteins colocalized in N2a neuronal cells. Transfection of SPTBN1 caused human SH-SY5Y dopaminergic neuron cells to inappropriately induce neurites, which extended from cell bodies. Cotransfection with \u03b1-synuclein reversed SPTBN1-induced excessive neurite branching in SH-SY5Y cells, and only a single neurite extended from each neuron. These results suggest that \u03b1-synuclein modulates neurite outgrowth by interacting with cytoskeletal proteins such as SPTBN1."}
{"id": "22771474", "title": "Methamphetamine binds to \u03b1-synuclein and causes a conformational change which can be detected by nanopore analysis.", "content": "Methamphetamine binds to \u03b1-synuclein and causes a conformational change which can be detected by nanopore analysis. \u03b1-Synuclein is an intrinsically disordered protein of 140 amino acids which is abundant in dopaminergic neurons. Misfolding and aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein leads to the formation of Lewy bodies inside the neurons which is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease and related dementias. Here we show by nanopore analysis that the recreational drug, methamphetamine, binds to the N-terminus of \u03b1-synuclein and causes a conformational change which cannot be detected by circular dichroism spectroscopy. The results suggest a mechanism for the psychoactivity of methamphetamine as well as an increased incidence of Parkinson's disease amongst users of the drug."}
{"id": "22764226", "title": "Acute administration of L-DOPA induces changes in methylation metabolites, reduced protein phosphatase 2A methylation, and hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein in mouse brain.", "content": "Acute administration of L-DOPA induces changes in methylation metabolites, reduced protein phosphatase 2A methylation, and hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein in mouse brain. Folate deficiency and hypomethylation have been implicated in a number of age-related neurodegenerative disorders including dementia and Parkinson's disease (PD). Levodopa (L-dopa) therapy in PD patients has been shown to cause an increase in plasma total homocysteine as well as depleting cellular concentrations of the methyl donor, S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), and increasing the demethylated product S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH). Modulation of the cellular SAM/SAH ratio can influence activity of methyltransferase enzymes, including leucine carboxyl methyltransferase that specifically methylates Ser/Thr protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), a major Tau phosphatase. Here we show in human SH-SY5Y cells, in dopaminergic neurons, and in wild-type mice that l-dopa results in a reduced SAM/SAH ratio that is associated with hypomethylation of PP2A and increased phosphorylation of Tau (p-Tau) at the Alzheimer's disease-like PHF-1 phospho-epitope. The effect of L-dopa on PP2A and p-Tau was exacerbated in cells exposed to folate deficiency. In the folate-deficient mouse model, L-dopa resulted in a marked depletion of SAM and an increase in SAH in various brain regions with parallel downregulation of PP2A methylation and increased Tau phosphorylation. L-Dopa also enhanced demethylated PP2A amounts in the liver. These findings reveal a novel mechanism involving methylation-dependent pathways in L-dopa induces PP2A hypomethylation and increases Tau phosphorylation, which may be potentially detrimental to neuronal cells."}
{"id": "22737239", "title": "Alpha-synuclein cell-to-cell transfer and seeding in grafted dopaminergic neurons in vivo.", "content": "Alpha-synuclein cell-to-cell transfer and seeding in grafted dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Several people with Parkinson's disease have been treated with intrastriatal grafts of fetal dopaminergic neurons. Following autopsy, 10-22 years after surgery, some of the grafted neurons contained Lewy bodies similar to those observed in the host brain. Numerous studies have attempted to explain these findings in cell and animal models. In cell culture, \u03b1-synuclein has been found to transfer from one cell to another, via mechanisms that include exosomal transport and endocytosis, and in certain cases seed aggregation in the recipient cell. In animal models, transfer of \u03b1-synuclein from host brain cells to grafted neurons has been shown, but the reported frequency of the event has been relatively low and little is known about the underlying mechanisms as well as the fate of the transferred \u03b1-synuclein. We now demonstrate frequent transfer of \u03b1-synuclein from a rat brain engineered to overexpress human \u03b1-synuclein to grafted dopaminergic neurons. Further, we show that this model can be used to explore mechanisms underlying cell-to-cell transfer of \u03b1-synuclein. Thus, we present evidence both for the involvement of endocytosis in \u03b1-synuclein uptake in vivo, and for seeding of aggregation of endogenous \u03b1-synuclein in the recipient neuron by the transferred \u03b1-synuclein. Finally, we show that, at least in a subset of the studied cells, the transmitted \u03b1-synuclein is sensitive to proteinase K. Our new model system could be used to test compounds that inhibit cell-to-cell transfer of \u03b1-synuclein and therefore might retard progression of Parkinson neuropathology."}
{"id": "22735249", "title": "A case of strategic-infarct mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "A case of strategic-infarct mild cognitive impairment. Although poststroke dementia has been investigated, patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) after stroke have received less attention, especially if there is cognitive decline in the absence of focal stroke symptoms. We report an 80-year-old female referred to our memory clinic with a 6-month history of amnestic symptoms. Neuropsychological evaluation demonstrated a marked decline in short-term memory, without anosognosia, aphasia, motor deficit, or sensory disturbance. A brain magnetic resonance imaging performed 2 months after the onset of her symptoms revealed a lacunar infarction in the genu of the right internal capsule extended to the anterior thalamus. This lesion had not been present in a previous magnetic resonance imaging obtained 2 months before her amnestic symptoms appeared. The patient reported here demonstrated the evolution of MCI in the setting of a newly emergent lacunar infarction in the genu of the right internal capsule extended to the anterior thalamus. One possible mechanism for amnestic symptoms from a lacunar infarct in this location might be thalamocortical disconnection leading to \"strategic-infarct MCI.\""}
{"id": "22735052", "title": "Amyloid plaque imaging from IMPY/SPECT to AV-45/PET.", "content": "Amyloid plaque imaging from IMPY/SPECT to AV-45/PET. The formation and deposition of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques are the earliest pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Molecular imaging of A\u03b2 plaques could serve as a surrogate marker in early diagnosis and neuropathogenesis studies of AD. Several radionuclide labeled ligands have recently been developed for noninvasive visualization of A\u03b2 plaques in the brains of AD patients using single photon emission computed tomography or positron emission tomography (PET). There has been rapid progress in the field of imaging for plaque pathology. AV-45 was the first plaque imaging agent to enter multi-center, investigational new drug clinical trials in the US, and has now been studied in dozens of trials with more than 1,000 subjects ranging from cognitively normal individuals to those with AD dementia. \"Imaging to autopsy\" phase III studies further confirmed and validated the specific imaging signal correlated to the plaque burden in living subjects. With these promising and confirmed characteristics of AV-45, the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) under common consensus decided on AV-45 as the emerging standard PET imaging agent for evaluating the progression of plaque pathology in patients with AD or mild cognition impairment, and even healthy controls. With the wide availability of AV-45 for plaque imaging, the ultimate goal of the ADNI is global clinical trials for disease detection and progression. This review presents recent experience with A\u03b2-targeting radiotracers at Chang Gung University and Chang Gung Memorial Hospital."}
{"id": "22733085", "title": "Midcingulate involvement in progressive supranuclear palsy and tau positive frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Midcingulate involvement in progressive supranuclear palsy and tau positive frontotemporal dementia. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients often exhibit cognitive decline and behavioural changes during the disease course. In a subset, these symptoms may be the presenting manifestation and can be similar to those in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, correlation studies between quantitative imaging measures and detailed neuropsychological assessment are scarce. The aim of this study was to investigate the functional role of affected brain regions in cognition in PSP compared with controls and subsequently examine these regions in FTD patients with known tau pathology (FTD tau). 21 PSP patients, 27 healthy controls and 11 FTD tau patients were enrolled. All participants underwent neuropsychological testing and technetium-99m-hexamethyl-propylenamine-oxime single photon emission CT. Regression slope analyses were performed in statistical parametric mapping to find significant associations between neuropsychological test results and brain perfusion. PSP patients showed hypoperfusion in the midcingulate cortex (MCC) of which the posterior part correlated with Stroop III and Weigl. In FTD tau patients, MCC involvement was located more anterior and correlated with Stroop III and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test concepts. The degree of hypoperfusion in the anterior cortex and MCC in the disorders differed in the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex only. The posterior part of the MCC is prominently involved in the neurodegenerative process of PSP, and the severity of its hypoperfusion correlated with the extent of executive dysfunction. In FTD tau, this cognitive domain was associated with anterior MCC involvement. The degree of hypoperfusion in these regions did not differ between PSP and FTD tau. These observations provide insight into the role of the cingulate cortex in cognitive dysfunction in these neurodegenerative disorders and warrant further investigations."}
{"id": "22717776", "title": "Sporadic fatal insomnia with clinical, laboratory, and genetic findings.", "content": "Sporadic fatal insomnia with clinical, laboratory, and genetic findings. A 75-year-old man presented with a three-year history of progressively worsening insomnia and dementia. His mother and older sister had similar disorders. On initial examination, he was awake, apathetic, and disoriented but had no focal neurological deficits. Electroencephalography showed diffuse background slowing with neither periodic discharge nor sleeping activity. A single-photon emission CT scan showed significantly reduced cerebral perfusion in bilateral thalami, basal ganglia, and limbic cortices. In the late stage of his illness, he developed sphincter dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed increased T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes and reduced cortisol level. Cerebrospinal fluid 14-3-3 protein was absent. Genetic evaluations failed to show the aspartate to asparagine point mutation at codon 178 but disclosed an asparagine to serine substitution at codon 171 in one allele and a deletion of 24 base pairs in the other allele in the human prion protein gene. These findings led to a diagnosis of sporadic fatal insomnia, which is a recently described prion disease."}
{"id": "22710605", "title": "Picture agnosia as a characteristic of posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Picture agnosia as a characteristic of posterior cortical atrophy. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is a degenerative disease characterized by progressive visual agnosia with posterior cerebral atrophy. We examine the role of the picture naming test and make a number of suggestions with regard to diagnosing PCA as atypical dementia. We investigated 3 cases of early-stage PCA with 7 control cases of Alzheimer disease (AD). The patients and controls underwent a naming test with real objects and colored photographs of familiar objects. We then compared rates of correct answers. Patients with early-stage PCA showed significant inability to recognize photographs compared to real objects (F = 196.284, p = 0.0000) as measured by analysis of variants. This difficulty was also significant to AD controls (F = 58.717, p = 0.0000). Picture agnosia is a characteristic symptom of early-stage PCA, and the picture naming test is useful for the diagnosis of PCA as atypical dementia at an early stage."}
{"id": "22703622", "title": "Neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's disease. MEDLINE, Embase and PsycINFO were searched using the keywords \"imaging\", \"neuroimaging\", \"CT\", \"MRI\", \"PET\", \"SPECT\", \"Alzheimer's\", \"dementia\", \"delusions\" and \"psychosis\" to find studies specifically assessing or reporting on neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's Dementia (AD), separate from hallucinations or psychosis in general in AD. Twenty-five studies were found meeting criteria and are included in this review which reports on structural, regional perfusion, metabolic and receptor binding imaging modalities assessing delusions as a whole, as well as persecutory and misidentification delusional subtypes. The majority of studies implicate right-sided pathology, primarily frontal lobe. Left-frontal predominance and release, secondary to right-sided pathology, may create a hyperinferential state resulting in the formation of delusions. This perturbation and imbalance of normal networks is associated with delusional phenomenology. Temporal lobe structures are also important in misidentification syndromes, which have a different natural history than paranoid delusions. Consistent with the neuropathological and genetic literature, neuroimaging has shown that paranoid versus misidentification delusions are associated with different phenomenology and different neural substrates. Delusional subtype is an important factor in understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of delusions in dementia. We also discuss methodological issues related to neuroimaging of delusions in AD."}
{"id": "22649237", "title": "Disrupted autophagy leads to dopaminergic axon and dendrite degeneration and promotes presynaptic accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein and LRRK2 in the brain.", "content": "Disrupted autophagy leads to dopaminergic axon and dendrite degeneration and promotes presynaptic accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein and LRRK2 in the brain. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by the formation of ubiquitin and \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn)-containing inclusions (Lewy bodies), dystrophic dopamine (DA) terminals, and degeneration of midbrain DA neurons. The precise molecular mechanisms underlying these pathological features remain elusive. Accumulating evidence has implicated dysfunctional autophagy, the cell self-digestion and neuroprotective pathway, as one of the pathogenic systems contributing to the development of idiopathic PD. Here we characterize autophagy-deficient mouse models and provide in vivo evidence for the potential role that impaired autophagy plays in pathogenesis associated with PD. Cell-specific deletion of essential autophagy gene Atg7 in midbrain DA neurons causes delayed neurodegeneration, accompanied by late-onset locomotor deficits. In contrast, Atg7-deficient DA neurons in the midbrain exhibit early dendritic and axonal dystrophy, reduced striatal dopamine content, and the formation of somatic and dendritic ubiquitinated inclusions in DA neurons. Furthermore, whole-brain-specific loss of Atg7 leads to presynaptic accumulation of \u03b1-syn and LRRK2 proteins, which are encoded by two autosomal dominantly inherited PD-related genes. Our results suggest that disrupted autophagy may be associated with enhanced levels of endogenous \u03b1-syn and LRRK2 proteins in vivo. Our findings implicate dysfunctional autophagy as one of the failing cellular mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of idiopathic PD."}
{"id": "22645275", "title": "Identification of novel ATP13A2 interactors and their role in \u03b1-synuclein misfolding and toxicity.", "content": "Identification of novel ATP13A2 interactors and their role in \u03b1-synuclein misfolding and toxicity. Lysosomes are responsible for degradation and recycling of bulky cell material, including accumulated misfolded proteins and dysfunctional organelles. Increasing evidence implicates lysosomal dysfunction in several neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies, which are characterized by the accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) in Lewy bodies. Studies of lysosomal proteins linked to neurodegenerative disorders present an opportunity to uncover specific molecular mechanisms and pathways that contribute to neurodegeneration. Loss-of-function mutations in a lysosomal protein, ATP13A2 (PARK9), cause Kufor-Rakeb syndrome that is characterized by early-onset parkinsonism, pyramidal degeneration and dementia. While loss of ATP13A2 function plays a role in \u03b1-syn misfolding and toxicity, the normal function of ATP13A2 in the brain remains largely unknown. Here, we performed a screen to identify ATP13A2 interacting partners, as a first step toward elucidating its function. Utilizing a split-ubiquitin membrane yeast two-hybrid system that was developed to identify interacting partners of full-length integral membrane proteins, we identified 43 novel interactors that primarily implicate ATP13A2 in cellular processes such as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) translocation, ER-to-Golgi trafficking and vesicular transport and fusion. We showed that a subset of these interactors modified \u03b1-syn aggregation and \u03b1-syn-mediated degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans, further suggesting that ATP13A2 and \u03b1-syn are functionally linked in neurodegeneration. These results implicate ATP13A2 in vesicular trafficking and provide a platform for further studies of ATP13A2 in neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "22641021", "title": "L-DOPA induced-endogenous 6-hydroxydopamine is the cause of aggravated dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease patients.", "content": "L-DOPA induced-endogenous 6-hydroxydopamine is the cause of aggravated dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease patients. Dopamine replacement therapy by 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), which is the gold standard symptomatic treatment for the Parkinson's disease (PD), frequently leads to potential debilitating side-effects such as dyskinesia. One of the most significant molecules reported to be produced endogenously in the brain is 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), contributed solely by unsequestered dopamine in neurons derived from L-DOPA. It is further demonstrated that scavengers of hydroxyl radicals such as melatonin and salicylic acid inhibited its generation. However no reports on the level of 6-OHDA and hydroxyl radicals generated in vivo in human brain is known. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are known to be associated with Lewy body formation, which is directly dependent on the levels of free dopamine. Therefore, it is hypothesized that L-DOPA induced increase in endogenous 6-OHDA levels will have the ability to cause oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunctions that eventually leads to Lewy body formation in dopaminergic neurons resulting in its degeneration. Concomitant use of potent anti-oxidants along with L-DOPA would help in attenuating the neurodegeneration caused by endogenous 6-OHDA and would ultimately delay the progression of PD."}
{"id": "22613760", "title": "Frontal dysfunctions of ALS-PBP patients in relation to their bulbar symptoms and rCBF decline.", "content": "Frontal dysfunctions of ALS-PBP patients in relation to their bulbar symptoms and rCBF decline. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and fatal disease characterized by progressive degeneration of spinal and bulbar motor neurons. However up to 50% ALS patients may also have cognitive dysfunction which has not been fully examined. 35 ALS patients [23 patients presenting with limb-type ALS (ALS-limb) and 12 patients presenting with primary bulbar palsy (PBP)-type ALS (ALS-PBP)] and 5 Spinal and Bulbar Muscular Atrophy (SBMA) patients have participated. To assess cognitive function mini-mental state examination (MMSE), Hasegawa dementia scale-revised (HDS-R), and frontal assessment battery (FAB) were performed. Additionally the time to complete card flipping with a computerized touch panel-type screening test was also examined. To investigate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using a (99m)Tc labeled ethyl cysteinate dimer ((99m)Tc-ECD) were performed. Statistical image analysis was performed using the easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS). HDS-R and FAB scores were significantly lower in the ALS-PBP group than in age- and gender-matched control subjects or ALS-limb groups (p<0.01). The time to complete card flipping was significantly longer in the ALS-PBP group than in the control and ALS-limb groups (p<0.01). Although MMSE, HDS-R and FAB scores and the time to complete card flipping had no correlation with ALS functional rating scale-revised (ALSFRS-R) or Norris-limb scale scores, FAB score (r=0.63, p <0.01) and the time to complete card flipping (r=-0.66, p<0.01) were strongly correlated with Norris-bulbar score. The eZIS showed that rCBF of the frontal lobe was more severely declined in ALS-PBP patients than in ALS-limb patients (p<0.05). These results suggest a selective decline of frontal cerebral functions in the ALS-PBP group in relation to their bulbar symptoms and rCBF decline."}
{"id": "22574684", "title": "Mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone-induced toxicity and its potential mechanisms in Parkinson's disease models.", "content": "Mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone-induced toxicity and its potential mechanisms in Parkinson's disease models. The etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is attributed to both environmental and genetic factors. The development of PD reportedly involves mitochondrial impairment, oxidative stress, \u03b1-synuclein aggregation, dysfunctional protein degradation, glutamate toxicity, calcium overloading, inflammation and loss of neurotrophic factors. Based on a link between mitochondrial dysfunction and pesticide exposure, many laboratories, including ours, have recently developed parkinsonian models by utilization of rotenone, a well-known mitochondrial complex I inhibitor. Rotenone models for PD appear to mimic most clinical features of idiopathic PD and recapitulate the slow and progressive loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons and the Lewy body formation in the nigral-striatal system. Notably, potential human parkinsonian pathogenetic and pathophysiological mechanisms have been revealed through these models. In this review, we summarized various rotenone-based models for PD and discussed the implied etiology of and treatment for PD."}
{"id": "22553499", "title": "Functional neuroimaging in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Functional neuroimaging in Parkinson's disease. The use of functional imaging in neurodegenerative diseases has increased in recent years, with applications in research into the underlying pathophysiology, aiding in diagnosis, or evaluating new treatments. In Parkinson's disease (PD), these imaging methods have expanded our understanding of the disease beyond dopaminergic deficits. Moreover, functional imaging methods have described alterations in functional networks relating not only to the motor symptoms, but also to many nonmotor features of PD, such as cognitive dysfunction. From a clinical viewpoint, functional imaging methods can assist in monitoring disease progression, such as in the context of clinical trials, and holds the potential to aid in early diagnosis of PD and differentiation from other parkinsonian disorders."}
{"id": "22495081", "title": "Brain perfusion SPECT imaging and acetazolamide challenge in vascular cognitive impairment.", "content": "Brain perfusion SPECT imaging and acetazolamide challenge in vascular cognitive impairment. Cerebrovascular disease is recognized as a common cause of cognitive impairment and dementia, alone or coexisting with other neurodegenerative diseases, mostly Alzheimer's disease. Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is a part of the heterogenous disorders group related to cerebral vessel disease. Although age is one of the most important risk factors for VCI, other common cardiovascular risk factors are also involved. By investigating these risk factors, a high proportion of these cognitive disorders can be prevented and/or delayed. Until now, only treatment of midlife arterial hypertension has been recognized as a preventing factor of vascular dementia. Brain MRI is becoming the method of choice to investigate cerebral vascular pathologies. However, this form of morphological imaging remains inadequate and does not provide useful functional information during VCI exploration, despite which functional imaging such as brain perfusion single-photon computed tomography, performed in baseline conditions and/or after an acetazolamide challenge, is underutilized in VCI exploration. The common strategies for VCI screening have not been standardized until now, and therefore further long-term imaging studies are needed to establish early diagnostic protocols. The present review summarizes the potential benefits of brain perfusion single-photon computed tomography imaging and possible scintigraphic quantification of cerebral hemodynamic reserves in investigation of VCI."}
{"id": "22494990", "title": "Progress on stem cell research towards the treatment of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Progress on stem cell research towards the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive accumulation of Lewy body inclusions along with selective destruction of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the nigrostriatal tract of the brain. Genetic studies have revealed much about the pathophysiology of PD, enabling the identification of both biomarkers for diagnosis and genetic targets for therapeutic treatment, which are evolved in tandem with the development of stem cell technologies. The discovery of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells facilitates the derivation of stem cells from adult somatic cells for personalized treatment and thus overcomes not only the limited availability of human embryonic stem cells but also ethical concerns surrounding their use. Non-viral, non-integration, or non-DNA-mediated reprogramming technologies are being developed. Protocols for generating midbrain DA neurons are undergoing constant refinement. The iPS cell-derived DA neurons provide cellular models for investigating disease progression in vitro and for screening molecules of novel therapeutic potential and have beneficial effects on improving the behavior of parkinsonian animals. Further progress in the development of safer non-viral/non-biased reprogramming strategies and the subsequent generation of homogenous midbrain DA neurons shall pave the way for clinical trials. A combined approach of drugs, cell replacement, and gene therapy to stop disease progression and to improve treatment may soon be within our reach."}
{"id": "22460325", "title": "Contribution of single photon emission computed tomography to the differential diagnosis of dementia in a memory clinic.", "content": "Contribution of single photon emission computed tomography to the differential diagnosis of dementia in a memory clinic. To evaluate the contribution of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to the differential diagnosis of dementia, we studied 48 consecutive patients (median age: 63) with a degenerative or vascular dementia, a 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT imaging, and a diagnostic confirmation (autopsy or genetic mutation). The SPECT scans were visually rated by two nuclear medicine physicians (first blinded to the clinical data, then with the data). Comparisons between clinical diagnoses and/or SPECT imaging and neuropathology were performed. At the time of SPECT was performed, the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) sensitivity was 83%, specificity was 76%, and diagnostic accuracy was 79%. The blinded SPECT sensitivity was 57%, specificity 92%, and diagnostic accuracy 75%. The SPECT associated with clinical data sensitivity was 65%, specificity 84%, and accuracy 75%. The clinical diagnosis of frontotemporal-lobar degeneration (FTLD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and corticobasal degeneration syndrome (CBDs) sensitivity was 83%, specificity 87%, and accuracy 85%. The blinded SPECT sensitivity was 50%, specificity 97%, and accuracy 79%. The SPECT associated with clinical data sensitivity was 61%, specificity was 93%, and accuracy 81%. Whenever the blinded SPECT interpretation agreed with the clinical diagnosis of AD and FTLD/PSP/CBDs, the condition was confirmed by neuropathological assessment in all cases. Compared with clinical diagnosis alone, SPECT imaging improved the specificity of the etiological diagnosis in degenerative dementia, although its sensitivity was not as good as that of clinical diagnosis. For AD and FTLD/PSP/CBDs, agreement between the clinical and SPECT-based diagnoses was always confirmed by neuropathological assessment."}
{"id": "22460160", "title": "Cognitive impairment in degenerative parkinsonisms: role of radionuclide brain imaging.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in degenerative parkinsonisms: role of radionuclide brain imaging. Cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes is gaining increased clinical significance. The neurochemical and neuropathological basis in the various parkinsonian forms and even in an individual patient are not fully elucidated yet and could be heterogeneous. Loss of dopaminergic, cholinergic and noradrenergic innervation has been suggested to be the underlying neurochemical deficits for cognitive impairment and dementia in PD, but the onset of cognitive impairment and the progression to dementia may not share the same underlying neurochemical basis. Similarly, pathological evidence is also heterogeneous, ranging from subcortical pathology, limbic or cortical Lewy body type degeneration, and Alzheimer's type pathology that can be found even in the same patient with PD dementia (PDD). Typically, the prototype of early cognitive deficit in PD is a dysexecutive syndrome, but other cognitive domains are more involved when dementia develops, mainly including visuospatial, language and memory dysfunction. Functional radionuclide neuroimaging, by means of single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography, are contributing to characterize the topographic cortical pattern of cognitive impairment, as well as to define the underlying neurochemical deficit. Lastly, the advent of amyloid PET may help clarifying the meaning of amyloid load in diffuse Lewy body disease and PDD. Knowing the neurochemical and pathophysiological substrate of cognitive deficit in patients with PD or other degenerative Parkinsonisms may help the clinician in understanding the clinical condition of an individual patient in order to plan pharmacological and non-pharmacological intervention. The introduction of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for therapy of PDD is an example of information integration between clinical-neuropsychological and pathophysiological-neurochemical aspects obtained also with the key contribution of functional neuroimaging."}
{"id": "22460159", "title": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders.", "content": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) may account for up to 30% of all dementia cases. The symptoms of DLB can be difficult to disentangle from other dementia subtypes, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD and DLB pathologies often overlap within individuals. Like DLB, Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) also shares common features with DLB. Currently, whether an individual is diagnosed with PDD or DLB depends solely on the timing of symptom onset. Early, accurate diagnosis is needed for optimal management and treatment. It is hoped that the development of existing and new Lewy body disorders biomarkers will facilitate more accurate diagnosis. Reduced dopamine transporter levels in DLB as shown with [123I]FP-CIT-SPECT currently appears to be the most reliable and valid biomarker, although other (predominantly imaging-based) methods also appear to have the high sensitivity and specificity required for a good biomarker. This includes (in DLB compared to AD) reduced cardiac 123I-MIBG uptake, occipital hypometabolism on FDG-PET and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on CT/MRI. Perfusion SPECT, cerebrospinal fluid protein levels (amyloid, tau and \u03b1-synuclein), electroencephalography, saccadic eye movement tracking and 11C-PiB amyloid imaging also hold promise as biomarkers in terms of differentiating DLB, AD, PDD and other neurodegenerative disorders, although findings are less consistent. Studies utilising a combination approach in which two or more potential biomarkers are compared seem to provide very good sensitivity and specificity. In general, longitudinal studies, pathological confirmation of diagnosis and the combined approach may hold the most promise for the identification of biomarkers."}
{"id": "22447623", "title": "REM sleep behavior disorder: motor manifestations and pathophysiology.", "content": "REM sleep behavior disorder: motor manifestations and pathophysiology. Patients with REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) enact violent dreams during REM sleep in the absence of normal muscle atonia. This disorder is highly frequent in patients with synucleinopathies (60%-100% of patients) and rare in patients with other neurodegenerative disorders. The disorder is detected by interview plus video and sleep monitoring. Abnormal movements expose the patients and bed partners to a high risk of injury and sleep disruption. The disorder is usually alleviated with melatonin and clonazepam. Limb movements are mainly minor, jerky, fast, pseudohallucinatory, and repeated, with a limp wrist during apparently grasping movements, although body jerks and complex violent (fights) and nonviolent culturally acquired behaviors are also observed. Notably, parkinsonism disappears during RBD-associated complex behaviors in patients with Parkinson's disease and with multiple system atrophy, suggesting that the upper motor stream bypasses the basal ganglia during REM sleep. Longitudinal studies show that idiopathic RBD predisposes patients to later develop Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and, more rarely, multiple system atrophy, with a rate of conversion of 46% within 5 years. During this time window, patients concomitantly develop nonmotor signs (decreased olfaction and color vision, orthostatic hypotension, altered visuospatial abilities, increased harm avoidance) and have abnormal test results (decreased putamen dopamine uptake, slower EEG). Patients with idiopathic RBD have higher and faster risk for conversion to Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies if abnormalities in dopamine transporter imaging, transcranial sonography, olfaction, and color vision are found at baseline. They constitute a highly specific target for testing neuroprotective agents."}
{"id": "22435956", "title": "Prefrontal cortex rTMS enhances action naming in progressive non-fluent aphasia.", "content": "Prefrontal cortex rTMS enhances action naming in progressive non-fluent aphasia. Progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by non-fluent speech with naming impairment and grammatical errors. It has been recently demonstrated that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) improves action naming in healthy subjects and in subjects with Alzheimer's disease. To investigate whether the modulation of DLPFC circuits by rTMS modifies naming performance in patients with PNFA. Ten patients with a diagnosis of PNFA were enrolled. High-frequency rTMS was applied to the left and right DLPFC and the sham (i.e. placebo) condition during object and action naming. A subgroup of patients with semantic dementia was enrolled as a comparison group. A repeated-measure anova with stimulus site (sham, left and right rTMS) showed significant effects. Action-naming performances during stimulation of both the left and right DLPFC were better than during placebo stimulation. No facilitating effect of rTMS to the DLPFC on object naming was observed. In patients with a diagnosis of semantic dementia, no effect of stimulation was reported. Our study demonstrated that rTMS improved action naming in subjects with PNFA, possibly due to the modulation of DLPFC pathways and a facilitation effect on lexical retrieval processes. Future studies on the potential of a rehabilitative protocol using rTMS applied to the DLPFC in this orphan disorder are required."}
{"id": "22416830", "title": "Recurrent delusional ideas due to left caudate head infarction, without dementia.", "content": "Recurrent delusional ideas due to left caudate head infarction, without dementia. Herein we report the case of a 77-year-old, right-handed man, without dementia, who had a cerebral infarction in the left caudate head that manifested recurrent delusional ideas. He experienced three episodes of delusional ideas; the first two occurred after loss of consciousness and the third after delirium at night. MRI findings of left caudate head infarction were the same for all three episodes. An unstable cerebral perfusion may have caused problems in the cerebral network between the caudate head and cerebral cortex. Decreased cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobe was noted particularly in the second and third episodes, supporting the neurological background of disinhibition of emotional behaviour. Antipsychotic drugs and a small dose of risperidone were effective in controlling the patient's delusional ideas."}
{"id": "22416826", "title": "Impaired memory and executive function associated with decreased medial temporal and prefrontal blood flow in Clinical Dementia Rating 0.5 status: the Osaki-Tajiri project.", "content": "Impaired memory and executive function associated with decreased medial temporal and prefrontal blood flow in Clinical Dementia Rating 0.5 status: the Osaki-Tajiri project. The Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) is an assessment of dementia severity based on observations of activities of daily living, and a CDR of 0.5 (CDR 0.5) represents questionable dementia. A combination of the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI) and the Trail Making Test (TMT) scores discriminated CDR 0.5 subjects from healthy participants with a high degree of accuracy. We investigated the neurological background of CDR 0.5 subjects by correlating CASI and TMT scores with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). From a community-based cohort, 22 CDR 0.5 participants were recruited. CASI and TMT scores, rCBF measure using [(123) I]-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine and SPECT were obtained. We evaluated the relationships between the CASI domain scores, between TMT scores and rCBF in a regions-of-interest-based analysis, and voxel-based analysis using Statistical Parametric Mapping 5 software. We found that lower rCBF in the left medial temporal cortex correlated with a decreased CASI domain recent memory score both in the regions-of-interest and statistical parametric mapping analysis. In both the regions-of-interest and statistical parametric mapping analysis, the rCBF in the left prefrontal cortex correlated with CASI domain remote memory and mental manipulation and concentration. Our results indicate that some CDR 0.5 subjects have functional impairments in the medial temporal lobe as well as in the prefrontal cortex, as reflected in the cognitive decline measured by CASI and TMT."}
{"id": "22388932", "title": "Regulation of parkin and PINK1 by neddylation.", "content": "Regulation of parkin and PINK1 by neddylation. Neddylation is a posttranslational modification that plays important roles in regulating protein structure and function by covalently conjugating NEDD8, an ubiquitin-like small molecule, to the substrate. Here, we report that Parkinson's disease (PD)-related parkin and PINK1 are NEDD8 conjugated. Neddylation of parkin and PINK1 results in increased E3 ligase activity of parkin and selective stabilization of the 55 kDa PINK1 fragment. Expression of dAPP-BP1, a NEDD8 activation enzyme subunit, in Drosophila suppresses abnormalities induced by dPINK1 RNAi. PD neurotoxin MPP(+) inhibits neddylation of both parkin and PINK1. NEDD8 immunoreactivity is associated with Lewy bodies in midbrain dopaminergic neurons of PD patients. Together, these results suggest that parkin and PINK1 are regulated by neddylation and that impaired NEDD8 modification of these proteins likely contributes to PD pathogenesis."}
{"id": "22382657", "title": "Molecular approaches to the treatment, prophylaxis, and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: novel PET/SPECT imaging probes for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Molecular approaches to the treatment, prophylaxis, and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: novel PET/SPECT imaging probes for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease of the brain associated with irreversible cognitive decline, memory impairment, and behavioral changes. Postmortem brains of AD patients reveal neuropathologic features, in particular the presence of senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which contain \u03b2-amyloid peptides and highly phosphorylated tau proteins. Currently, AD can only be definitively confirmed by postmortem histopathologic examination of SPs and NFTs in the brain. Therefore, SPs and NFTs in the brain may be useful as biomarkers for the differential diagnosis of AD; the detection of individual SPs and NFTs in vivo by positron-emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) should improve diagnosis and also accelerate discovery of effective therapeutic agents for AD. Many PET/SPECT imaging probes for SPs have already been developed. Several of the PET probes have been shown in clinical trials to be useful for the imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques in living brain tissue. More recently, the development of PET/SPECT probes for in vivo imaging of NFTs is an active area of study in the field of molecular imaging because the appearance of NFT pathology correlates well with clinical severity of dementia. We will review current research on the development of PET/SPECT imaging probes for in vivo detection of SPs and NFTs and their application to diagnosis and therapy of AD."}
{"id": "22366793", "title": "Characterization of frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with the GGGGCC repeat expansion in C9ORF72.", "content": "Characterization of frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with the GGGGCC repeat expansion in C9ORF72. Numerous kindreds with familial frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have been linked to chromosome 9, and an expansion of the GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat in the non-coding region of chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 has recently been identified as the pathogenic mechanism. We describe the key characteristics in the probands and their affected relatives who have been evaluated at Mayo Clinic Rochester or Mayo Clinic Florida in whom the hexanucleotide repeat expansion were found. Forty-three probands and 10 of their affected relatives with DNA available (total 53 subjects) were shown to carry the hexanucleotide repeat expansion. Thirty-six (84%) of the 43 probands had a familial disorder, whereas seven (16%) appeared to be sporadic. Among examined subjects from the 43 families (n = 63), the age of onset ranged from 33 to 72 years (median 52 years) and survival ranged from 1 to 17 years, with the age of onset <40 years in six (10%) and >60 in 19 (30%). Clinical diagnoses among examined subjects included behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia with or without parkinsonism (n = 30), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n = 18), frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with or without parkinsonism (n = 12), and other various syndromes (n = 3). Parkinsonism was present in 35% of examined subjects, all of whom had behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia or frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as the dominant clinical phenotype. No subject with a diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia was identified with this mutation. Incomplete penetrance was suggested in two kindreds, and the youngest generation had significantly earlier age of onset (>10 years) compared with the next oldest generation in 11 kindreds. Neuropsychological testing showed a profile of slowed processing speed, complex attention/executive dysfunction, and impairment in rapid word retrieval. Neuroimaging studies showed bilateral frontal abnormalities most consistently, with more variable degrees of parietal with or without temporal changes; no case had strikingly focal or asymmetric findings. Neuropathological examination of 14 patients revealed a range of transactive response DNA binding protein molecular weight 43 pathology (10 type A and four type B), as well as ubiquitin-positive cerebellar granular neuron inclusions in all but one case. Motor neuron degeneration was detected in nine patients, including five patients without ante-mortem signs of motor neuron disease. While variability exists, most cases with this mutation have a characteristic spectrum of demographic, clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and especially neuropathological findings."}
{"id": "22354229", "title": "[FTDP-17 presenting amnestic MCI as an initial symptom: case report].", "content": "[FTDP-17 presenting amnestic MCI as an initial symptom: case report]. A 46-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for examination of her amnesia. Psychiatric examinations revealed that her recent memory was moderately disturbed despite well-preserved general cognitive function. Brain MRI and I-IMP SPECT (eZIS) revealed mild brain atrophy and hypoperfusion localized to the hippocampus, superior parietal lobule, and posterior cingulate gyrus. She was diagnosed with amnestic MCI at that time. However, five years later, she developed personality changes, parkinsonism and dementia. Investigation of her family medical history revealed that the patient's two sisters are demented and under the medical care. DNA analysis revealed an intronic mutation IVS10 C>T in the MAPT gene. Although her two sisters also have the same mutation, her elder sister has typical FTD without parkinsonism. Approximately 10% of patients with amnestic MCI develop Alzheimer's disease each year. Thus, amnestic MCI has been usually considered to be an early stage of Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly our patient having a MAPT gene mutation started to develop amnestic MCI as an initial symptom. Therefore because of the diversity in early clinical features of FTDP-17, aggressive DNA analysis is necessary for accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "22353375", "title": "Cognitive and affective impairments of a novel SCA/MND crossroad mutation Asidan.", "content": "Cognitive and affective impairments of a novel SCA/MND crossroad mutation Asidan. A variety of hereditary spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) develops a broad spectrum of both ataxia and non-ataxia symptoms. Cognitive and affective changes are one such non-ataxia symptoms, but have been described only in hereditary SCAs with exonic CAG gene expansion. We newly found intronic hexanucleotide GGCCTG gene expansion in NOP56 gene as the causative mutation (=SCA36) in nine unrelated Japanese familial SCA originating from Asida river area in the western part of Japan, thus nicknamed Asidan for this mutation. These patients show unique clinical balance of cerebellar ataxia and motor neuron disease (MND), locating on the crossroad of these two diseases. In the nine families, 14 patients were clinically examined and genetically confirmed to Asidan. In the present study, we examined cognitive and affective analyses on 12 patients (seven men and five women) who agreed to join the examination with average age at onset of 53.1 \u00b1 3.2 years, average duration of 12.1 \u00b1 5.2 years, and current average age at 65.1 \u00b1 6.2 years. The 12 Asidan patients demonstrated a significant decrease in their frontal executive functions measured by frontal assessment battery (FAB) and Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) compared with age- and gender-matched controls, whilst mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and Hasegawa dementia score-revised (HDS-R) were within normal range. The decline of frontal executive function was related to their disease duration and scale for the assessment and rating of ataxias (SARA). They also demonstrated mild depression and apathy. Single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) analysis showed that these Asidan patients showed decline of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in a particular areas of cerebral cortices such as Brodmann areas 24 and 44-46. These data suggest that the patients with Asidan mutation show unique cognitive and affective characteristics different from other hereditary SCAs with exonal CAG expansion or MND."}
{"id": "22245218", "title": "MicroRNAs in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "MicroRNAs in Parkinson's disease. Besides the classic mutations in coding regions of genes, the critical role of gene expression regulators in disease states is increasingly recognized. The network of small non-coding microRNAs is crucial for the normal development and survival of distinct neuronal populations that are vulnerable in various neurodegenerative disorders. In midbrain dopaminergic neurons, which degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD) causing motor signs and symptoms, disruption of this network results in their progressive loss associated with impaired motor activity in Drosophila and mouse models. Studies of families with dominantly inherited PD linked to multiplication of the \u03b1-synuclein gene locus indicate that the amount of this key pathogenic protein in neurons is an important determinant of its tendency to aggregate pathologically and increase neuronal susceptibility. Recent reports demonstrate that the \u03b1-synuclein mRNA is under negative control by at least two microRNAs, miR-7 and miR-153. In addition to studying the regulation of candidate genes by specific microRNA species, different profiling approaches are uncovering variations in the abundance of certain microRNAs that may prove to be relevant to the disease. For example, miR-133b is deficient in the PD midbrain as well as in mouse models, and miR-34b/34c are decreased in several affected brain regions in PD and incidental Lewy body disease. Polymorphisms in the 3'-untranslated region of microRNA target mRNAs, including in the gene encoding \u03b1-synuclein found in Genome Wide Association studies, are another potential reason for variations in the rate of protein production and thus disease risk. And finally, the impact of a disease associated gene product, and in particular LRRK2, on the microRNA network compounds the complexity of the interplay between the microRNA system and pathogenic proteins. The wealth of knowledge accumulating from these studies in a few short years holds considerable promise to harness its potential and translate it into therapeutic strategies for PD."}
{"id": "22205206", "title": "Targeting SKP1, an ubiquitin E3 ligase component found decreased in sporadic Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Targeting SKP1, an ubiquitin E3 ligase component found decreased in sporadic Parkinson's disease. Microarray-derived transcriptomic studies in human substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) samples from sporadic Parkinson's disease (SPD) cases have opened an avenue to concentrate on potential gene intersections or cross-talks along the dopaminergic (DAergic) neurodegenerative cascade in SPD. One emerging gene candidate identified by our group was SKP1A (p19, S-phase kinase-associated protein 1A), found significantly decreased in the SNpc. It is part of the SCF (Skp1, Cullin 1, F-box protein) complex, the largest class of sophisticated ubiquitin-proteasome/E3 ligases, and can directly interact with Fbxo7, a gene defective in PARK15-linked PD. In vitro target validation by viral-mediated RNA interference revealed that the deficiency of Skp1 in a mouse SN-derived DAergic neuronal cell line potentiated the damage caused by exogenous insults implicated in PD pathology and caused the death of neurons undergoing differentiation, which developed Lewy body-like, \u03b1-synuclein-positive inclusions preceding cell death. Furthermore, recent animal studies show that site-directed intranigral stereotaxic injections of lentiviruses targeting SKP1A induce pathological and behavioral deficits in mice, supporting a significant role of Skp1 in SN DAergic neuronal survival in SPD. Thus, strategies aimed at increasing the activity or content of Skp1 may represent a novel therapeutic approach that has the potential to treat PD."}
{"id": "22186024", "title": "PARK9-associated ATP13A2 localizes to intracellular acidic vesicles and regulates cation homeostasis and neuronal integrity.", "content": "PARK9-associated ATP13A2 localizes to intracellular acidic vesicles and regulates cation homeostasis and neuronal integrity. Mutations in the ATP13A2 gene (PARK9, OMIM 610513) cause autosomal recessive, juvenile-onset Kufor-Rakeb syndrome and early-onset parkinsonism. ATP13A2 is an uncharacterized protein belonging to the P(5)-type ATPase subfamily that is predicted to regulate the membrane transport of cations. The physiological function of ATP13A2 in the mammalian brain is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that ATP13A2 is localized to intracellular acidic vesicular compartments in cultured neurons. In the human brain, ATP13A2 is localized to pyramidal neurons within the cerebral cortex and dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. ATP13A2 protein levels are increased in nigral dopaminergic and cortical pyramidal neurons of Parkinson's disease brains compared with normal control brains. ATP13A2 levels are increased in cortical neurons bearing Lewy bodies (LBs) compared with neurons without LBs. Using short hairpin RNA-mediated silencing or overexpression to explore the function of ATP13A2, we find that modulating the expression of ATP13A2 reduces the neurite outgrowth of cultured midbrain dopaminergic neurons. We also find that silencing of ATP13A2 expression in cortical neurons alters the kinetics of intracellular pH in response to cadmium exposure. Furthermore, modulation of ATP13A2 expression leads to reduced intracellular calcium levels in cortical neurons. Finally, we demonstrate that silencing of ATP13A2 expression induces mitochondrial fragmentation in neurons. Oppositely, overexpression of ATP13A2 delays cadmium-induced mitochondrial fragmentation in neurons consistent with a neuroprotective effect. Collectively, this study reveals a number of intriguing neuronal phenotypes due to the loss- or gain-of-function of ATP13A2 that support a role for this protein in regulating intracellular cation homeostasis and neuronal integrity."}
{"id": "22177721", "title": "Centrosomal aggregates and Golgi fragmentation disrupt vesicular trafficking of DAT.", "content": "Centrosomal aggregates and Golgi fragmentation disrupt vesicular trafficking of DAT. Lewy bodies containing the centrosomal protein \u03b3-tubulin and fragmentation of Golgi apparatus (GA) have been described in nigral neurons of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. However, the relevance of these features in PD pathophysiology remains unknown. We analyzed the impact of proteasome inhibition in the formation of \u03b3-tubulin-containing aggregates as well as on GA structure. SH-SY5Y cells were treated with the proteasome inhibitor Z-Leu-Leu-Leu-al (MG132) to induce centrosomal-protein aggregates. Then, microtubules (MTs) and Golgi dynamics, as well as the vesicular transport of dopamine transporter (DAT) were evaluated both in vitro and in living cells. MG132 treatment induced \u03b3-tubulin aggregates which altered microtubule nucleation. MG132-treated cells containing \u03b3-tubulin aggregates showed fragmentation of GA and perturbation of the trans-Golgi network. Under these conditions, the DAT accumulated at the centrosomal-Golgi region indicating that the vesicular transport of DAT was disrupted. Thus, centrosomal aggregates and fragmentation of GA are 2 closely related processes that could result in the disruption of the vesicular transport of DAT toward the plasma membrane in a model of dopaminergic neuronal degeneration."}
{"id": "22169201", "title": "Loss of dopaminoreceptive neuron causes L-dopa resistant parkinsonism in tauopathy.", "content": "Loss of dopaminoreceptive neuron causes L-dopa resistant parkinsonism in tauopathy. Frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) is a family of inherited dementias caused by tauopathy. A mutation in exon 10 of the tau gene, N279K, causes a particular kindred of FTDP-17, which is predominant for parkinsonism. The disease initially presents as L-dopa resistant parkinsonism which then rapidly progresses. The final pathological features reveal disappearing dopamine (DA) neurons, but the causes remain poorly understood. We previously established a transgenic mouse with human N279K mutant tau as a model for FTDP-17, which showed cognitive dysfunctions caused by the mutant. Here we analyze L-dopa resistant parkinsonism by several behavioral tests, and focus on the distributions and accumulations of the mutant tau in the DA system by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. Interestingly, dopaminoreceptive (DAr) neurons in the striatum showed neurofibrils degeneration and apoptosis through caspase-3 activation by mutant tau accumulation. The DAr neuron loss in the caudoputamen, the target of the nigrostriatal system occurred before DA neuron loss in young symptomatic mice. Residual DA neurons in the mouse functioned in DA transportation, whereas dysregulation of intracellular DA compartmentalization implied an excess level of DA caused by DAr neuron loss. In the final stages, both DAr and DA neurons decreased equally, unlike Parkinson's disease. Therefore, DAr neurons were fundamentally vulnerable to the mutation indicating a critical role for the L-dopa resistant parkinsonism in tauopathy."}
{"id": "22167382", "title": "Aggregation of \u03b1Synuclein promotes progressive in vivo neurotoxicity in adult rat dopaminergic neurons.", "content": "Aggregation of \u03b1Synuclein promotes progressive in vivo neurotoxicity in adult rat dopaminergic neurons. Fibrillar \u03b1Synuclein is the major constituent of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, the protein deposits characteristic for Parkinson's disease (PD). Multiplications of the \u03b1Synuclein gene, as well as point mutations cause familial PD. However, the exact role of \u03b1Synuclein in neurodegeneration remains uncertain. Recent research in invertebrates has suggested that oligomeric rather than fibrillizing \u03b1Synuclein mediates neurotoxicity. To investigate the impact of \u03b1Synuclein aggregation on the progression of neurodegeneration, we expressed variants with different fibrillation propensities in the rat substantia nigra (SN) by means of recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors. The formation of proteinase K-resistant \u03b1Synuclein aggregates was correlated to the loss of nigral dopaminergic (DA) neurons and striatal fibers. Expression of two prefibrillar, structure-based design mutants of \u03b1Synuclein (i.e., A56P and A30P/A56P/A76P) resulted in less aggregate formation in nigral DA neurons as compared to human wild-type (WT) or the inherited A30P mutation. However, only the \u03b1Synuclein variants capable of forming fibrils (WT/A30P), but not the oligomeric \u03b1Synuclein species induced a sustained progressive loss of adult nigral DA neurons. These results demonstrate that divergent modes of \u03b1Synuclein neurotoxicity exist in invertebrate and mammalian DA neurons in vivo and suggest that fibrillation of \u03b1Synuclein promotes the progressive degeneration of nigral DA neurons as found in PD patients."}
{"id": "22166451", "title": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease.", "content": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease. The objective of this paper is to compare and contrast the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging findings in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) versus Lewy body disease (LBD) pathology. MCI refers to a clinical syndrome with impairment in one or more cognitive domains, with essentially normal performance of activities of daily living. Patients with the amnesic subtype of MCI often develop the dementia syndrome and neuroimaging findings characteristic of AD [e.g., hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), temporoparietal and posterior cingulate hypometabolism on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), positive uptake on amyloid PET, normal striatonigral uptake on dopamine transporter scanning (DAT), etc.]. In contrast, the MCI syndrome associated with LBD pathology regardless of the coexisting presence or absence of parkinsonism is usually characterized by impairment in the executive and/or visuospatial domains, and the cognitive features are often preceded by REM sleep behavior disorder by many years. There is minimal hippocampal atrophy on MRI, minimal if any cortical uptake on amyloid-PET, and one would predict that hypometabolism would be maximal in the occipital cortex on FDG-PET and uptake would be decreased on DAT. The early data suggests that differentiating underlying AD vs LBD in the MCI phase will be feasible."}
{"id": "22166447", "title": "Parkinson's disease: diagnosis.", "content": "Parkinson's disease: diagnosis. In established PD the Queen Square Brain Bank criteria applied by experts show 90% sensitivity and specificity for the presence of midbrain Lewy bodies. However, in early disease clinical diagnosis is less straightforward. PD diagnosis made in the community by non-experts is associated with a 25% error rate. Nigral abnormalities can now be detected in vivo with 7 tesla MRI and diffusion tensor MRI. Magnetisation transfer can demonstrate melanin loss in the substantia nigra. Transcranial sonography (TCS) detects midbrain hyperechogenicity in both sporadic and genetic PD. PET and SPECT ligands can demonstrate the presence of dopamine terminal dysfunction in early and preclinical disease and an abnormal covariance pattern between levels of resting brain blood flow metabolism in cortical and subcortical regions. In the atypical parkinsonian syndrome multiple system atrophy (MSA) T2-weighted MRI can reveal characteristic changes including reduced putmen signal due to iron deposition and the pontine 'hot cross bun' sign as transverse fibres become visible. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is associated with midbrain atrophy and 3(rd) ventricular widening. In both these conditions diffusion weighted MRI shows increased striatal water diffusivity but the middle cerebellar peduncle is targeted in MSA and the superior peduncle in PSP. In this review the role of structural and functional imaging for supporting the differential diagnosis of the various degenerative parkinsonian syndromes will be discussed."}
{"id": "22135130", "title": "Imaging approaches for dementia.", "content": "Imaging approaches for dementia. Brain imaging has progressed from exclusion of rare treatable mass lesions to a specific antemortem diagnosis. MR imaging-derived hippocampal atrophy and WMH are regarded as imaging biomarkers of AD and CVD respectively. Abnormal FP-CIT SPECT or cardiac iodobenzamide SPECT is a useful supportive imaging feature in the diagnosis of DLB. Frontal and/or anterior temporal atrophy and anterior defects on molecular imaging with FDG-PET or perfusion SPECT are characteristic of FTDs. Whole-body FDG-PET may be helpful in patients with rapidly progressing \"autoimmune dementias,\" and FLAIR and DWI are indicated in suspected CJD. A major role of imaging is in the development of new drugs and less costly biomarkers."}
{"id": "22042522", "title": "Correlated regions of cerebral blood flow with clinical parameters in Parkinson's disease; comparison using 'Anatomy' and 'Talairach Daemon' software.", "content": "Correlated regions of cerebral blood flow with clinical parameters in Parkinson's disease; comparison using 'Anatomy' and 'Talairach Daemon' software. We assign the anatomical names of functional activation regions in the brain, based on the probabilistic cyto-architectonic atlas by Anatomy 1.7 from an analysis of correlations between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and clinical parameters of the non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients by SPM8. We evaluated Anatomy 1.7 of SPM toolbox compared to 'Talairach Daemon' (TD) Client 2.4.2 software. One hundred and thirty-six patients (mean age 60.0 \u00b1 9.09 years; 73 women and 63 men) with non-demented PD were selected. Tc-99m-HMPAO brain single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans were performed on the patients using a two-head gamma-camera. We analyzed the brain image of PD patients by SPM8 and found the anatomical names of correlated regions of rCBF perfusion with the clinical parameters using TD Client 2.4.2 and Anatomy 1.7. The SPM8 provided a correlation coefficient between clinical parameters and cerebral hypoperfusion by a simple regression method. To the clinical parameters were added age, duration of disease, education period, Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stage and Korean mini-mental state examination (K-MMSE) score. Age was correlated with cerebral perfusion in the Brodmann area (BA) 6 and BA 3b assigned by Anatomy 1.7 and BA 6 and pyramis in gray matter by TD Client 2.4.2 with p < 0.001 uncorrected. Also, assigned significant correlated regions were found in the left and right lobules VI (Hem) with duration of disease, in left and right lobules VIIa crus I (Hem) with education, in left insula (Ig2), left and right lobules VI (Hem) with H&Y, and in BA 4a and 6 with K-MMSE score with p < 0.05 uncorrected by Anatomy 1.7, respectively. Most areas of correlation were overlapped by two different anatomical labeling methods, but some correlation areas were found with different names. Age was the most significantly correlated clinical parameter with rCBF. TD Client found the exact anatomical name by the peak intensity position of the cluster while Anatomy 1.7 of SPM8 toolbox, using the cyto-architectonic probability maps, assigned the anatomical name by percentage value of the probability."}
{"id": "22038765", "title": "Correlation of right frontal hypoperfusion and urinary dysfunction in iNPH: a SPECT study.", "content": "Correlation of right frontal hypoperfusion and urinary dysfunction in iNPH: a SPECT study. To elucidate the pathophysiology of urinary dysfunction in idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and statistical brain mapping. Urinary symptoms were observed and N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]-iodoamphetamine (IMP)-SPECT imaging was performed in 97 patients with clinico-radiologically definite iNPH. The patients included 56 men and 41 women; mean age, 74 years. The statistical difference in normalized mean tracer counts was calculated and visualized between patients with urinary dysfunction of severer degrees (>grade 2/4) and milder degrees (<grade 1/4) according to the urinary subscales of the iNPH grading scales. There was a significant decrease in tracer activity in the right-side-dominant bilateral frontal cortex and the left inferior temporal gyrus in the severe urinary dysfunction group (P < 0.05). In order to minimize the effects of gait and cognitive dysfunction, we performed similar analysis among subjects with little or no such dysfunction, and obtained the same results (P < 0.05) as described above. Urinary dysfunction was found to be closely related with right frontal hypoperfusion in iNPH using [(123) I]-IMP SPECT. This right frontal area is one of the critical areas for regulating micturition. While secondary incontinence can result from gait disturbance or dementia, there may also be a neurogenic mechanism underlying urinary dysfunction, which is a significant burden in patients with iNPH and their caregivers."}
{"id": "22034053", "title": "Molecular imaging and the neuropathologies of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Molecular imaging and the neuropathologies of Parkinson's disease. The main motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are linked to degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) fibers, especially those innervating the putamen. This degeneration can be assessed in molecular imaging studies with presynaptic tracers such as [(18)F]-fluoro-L-DOPA (FDOPA) and ligands for DA transporter ligands. However, the pathologies of PD are by no means limited to nigrostriatal loss. Results of post mortem and molecular imaging studies reveal parallel degenerations of cortical noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) innervations, which may contribute to affective and cognitive changes of PD. Especially in advanced PD, cognitive impairment can come to resemble that seen in Alzheimer's dementia, as can the degeneration of acetylcholine innervations arising in the basal forebrain. The density of striatal DA D(2) receptors increases in early untreated PD, consistent with denervation upregulation, but there is an accelerated rate of DA receptor loss as the disease advances. Animal studies and post mortem investigations reveal changes in brain opioid peptide systems, but these are poorly documented in imaging studies of PD. Relatively minor changes in the binding sites for GABA are reported in cortex and striatum of PD patients. There remains some controversy about the expression of the 18\u00a0kDa translocator protein (TSPO) in activated microglia as an indicator of an active inflammatory component of neurodegeneration in PD. A wide variety of autonomic disturbances contribute to the clinical syndrome of PD; the degeneration of myocardial sympathetic innervation can be revealed in SPECT studies of PD patients with autonomic failure. Considerable emphasis has been placed on investigations of cerebral blood flow and energy metabolism in PD. Due to the high variance of these physiological estimates, researchers have often employed normalization procedures for the sensitive detection of perturbations in relatively small patient groups. However, a widely used normalization to the global mean must be used with caution, as it can result in spurious findings of relative hypermetabolic changes in subcortical structures. A meta-analysis of the quantitative studies to date shows that there is in fact widespread hypometabolism and cerebral blood flow in the cerebral cortex, especially in frontal cortex and parietal association areas. These changes can bias the use of global mean normalization, and probably represent the pathophysiological basis of the cognitive impairment of PD."}
{"id": "22024052", "title": "[123I]N-\u03c9-fluoropropyl-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane single-photon emission computed tomography brain imaging in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "[123I]N-\u03c9-fluoropropyl-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane single-photon emission computed tomography brain imaging in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Early, accurate diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), in particular its differentiation from Alzheimer's disease, is important for optimal management, providing patients/carers with information about the likely symptomatology and illness course, allowing initiation of effective pharmacotherapy, and avoiding the consequences of neuroleptic sensitivity. Clinical diagnosis of DLB has high specificity but low sensitivity. Clinical trials of [(123)I]N-\u03c9-fluoropropyl-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane single-photon emission computed tomography ([(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT) indicate high positive and negative percent agreement with reference to clinical diagnosis, and high sensitivity and specificity in patients with neuropathologically confirmed diagnoses of DLB. An abnormal [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT image in patients fulfilling criteria for possible DLB advances the certainty of a diagnosis to probable DLB. [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT, by identifying the striatal dopaminergic deficit, can be a valuable diagnostic aid and can provide support to a clinical diagnosis of DLB in patients with dementia. The technique is likely to be of particular utility in patients with dementia with an uncertain diagnosis."}
{"id": "22009380", "title": "Standardization of metaiodobenzylguanidine heart to mediastinum ratio using a calibration phantom: effects of correction on normal databases and a multicentre study.", "content": "Standardization of metaiodobenzylguanidine heart to mediastinum ratio using a calibration phantom: effects of correction on normal databases and a multicentre study. This study was performed to demonstrate that the results obtained with a calibration phantom could be used as a tool for standardizing measurement of heart to mediastinum (H/M) ratio in cardiac metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging. Images of the phantom containing (123)I-MIBG were acquired on the cameras in 10 hospitals (11 camera types) to determine the relationship between H/M ratios using different collimators: low-energy (LE) and medium-energy (ME)/low-medium-energy (LME) collimators. The effect of standardization on the ME-comparable H/M ratio was examined in two settings: a Japanese standard MIBG database (n = 62) and multicentre studies (n = 49). In a multicentre study, probable Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 18) and probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB, n = 31) were studied and standardized by the calibration phantom method. Linear regression equations between LE and ME collimators were obtained for the phantom study in all institutions. When the H/M ratio with an LE collimator was corrected based upon the calibration phantom, the corrected values were comparable to those obtained using ME collimators. The standard database also exhibited a normal distribution after standardization as determined by skewness and goodness-of-fit test. A mixture of the populations by LE and ME collimators showed significant separation of AD and DLB groups (F ratio = 24.9 for the late H/M), but the corrected values resulted in higher F ratios for both early and late H/M (F ratio = 34.9 for the late H/M). Standardization of H/M ratios by the heart-chest calibration phantom method is feasible among different collimator types. This method could be practically used for multicentre comparison of H/M ratios."}
{"id": "22008265", "title": "Value of neuropsychological testing, imaging, and CSF biomarkers for the differential diagnosis and prognosis of clinically ambiguous dementia.", "content": "Value of neuropsychological testing, imaging, and CSF biomarkers for the differential diagnosis and prognosis of clinically ambiguous dementia. The objective of this study was to examine the diagnostic accuracy of imaging and CSF biomarkers in clinically ambiguous dementia (CAD). 69 patients were prospectively followed. The endpoint was clinical diagnosis at follow-up of 24 months based upon existing criteria. Medial temporal lobe atrophy score on MRI, distinctive patterns on 99 mTc-HMPAO-SPECT, and CSF levels of amyloid-\u03b2 peptide, total tau protein, and P-tau181P were used together with neuropsychological testing to assess Se (sensitivity) and Sp (specificity) of separate and combined markers. 60 patients reached the endpoint. A definite diagnosis was achieved in 48 patients. CSF biomarkers had a Sp of 71% and a Se of 100% for Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis. Sp increased to 88% and 93% when MRI and MRI + SPECT were combined, at the expense of Se. CSF biomarkers levels also provided clues to frontotemporal (FTD) or vascular dementias (VaD) diagnosis when situated in an intermediate range between normal and pathological values. MRI and SPECT contributed mostly to the diagnosis of VaD (Se 88%, Sp 75%) and FTD (Se 73%, Sp 78%), respectively. Initial neuropsychological testing had a poor diagnostic accuracy, except for a neuropsychiatric inventory score >40 for the diagnosis of FTD (Se 73%, Sp 84%). Independent of the clinical diagnosis, medial temporal lobe atrophy and total-tau were best correlated with cognitive decline at 2 years. In conclusion, CSF biomarkers efficiently predict evolution toward an AD phenotype in CAD. Imaging biomarkers mostly contribute to the differential diagnosis between non-AD dementias. Initial neuropsychological testing was poorly contributive in CAD diagnosis."}
{"id": "21975260", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies: a meta-analysis of published studies.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies: a meta-analysis of published studies. A systematic meta-analysis of published studies on the diagnostic accuracy of presynaptic dopaminergic imaging with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We included (a) studies in which DaTSCAN was performed in cases of diagnostic uncertainty to differentiate between DLB and non-DLB dementia and (b) studies of patients with already established diagnoses of DLB, non-DLB dementia, or normalcy, against which the diagnostic accuracy of DaTSCAN was tested. We applied fixed-effects Mantel-Haenszel and hierarchical logistic regression models for meta-analysis of the diagnostic test's accuracy. The pooled sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) were estimated. Heterogeneity among studies was estimated by calculating the corresponding I\u00b2 statistic. We tested for publication or other bias by creating the respective funnel plot. Four studies, with a total of 419 subjects, were judged to be suitable for meta-analysis. According to hierarchical models, the estimated pooled sensitivity of DaTSCAN in differentiating DLB versus no DLB was 86.5% [95% Confidence Intervals (CI): 72-94.1%], the specificity was 93.6% (95% CI: 88.5-96.6%), and the DOR was 94.2 (95% CI: 25.7-345). The Mantel-Haenszel estimate of overall DOR was calculated at 48.95 (95% CI: 26.16-91.59). There was some heterogeneity among studies (I\u00b2 = 45%), but this was not found statistically significant (\u03c7\u00b2 test for heterogeneity p value = 0.142). Funnel plot analysis showed no significant bias. Allowing for the small number of studies in the meta-analysis, our results showed high diagnostic accuracy of DaTSCAN in DLB diagnosis, especially in terms of specificity."}
{"id": "21879994", "title": "Structural and functional neuroimaging methods in the diagnosis of dementias: a retrospective chart and brain imaging review.", "content": "Structural and functional neuroimaging methods in the diagnosis of dementias: a retrospective chart and brain imaging review. Assess the contribution of structural and functional neuroimaging methods to the diagnosis of dementia. This was a retrospective chart and imaging review. Participants were 24 inpatient dementia cases from a general hospital-based, university medical psychiatry unit. Data from clinical charts and imaging results were reviewed. Most common initial diagnoses were dementia NOS and vascular dementia (VD); most common discharge diagnoses were VD, Alzheimer's, Dementia NOS and dementia with Lewy bodies. Most diagnostic changes occurred following family meetings or SPECT/PET, with fewer changes after CT/MRI. Diagnostic steps that contributed the most to the final diagnosis were the family meeting and the functional neuroimaging evaluation."}
{"id": "21796351", "title": "Sympathetic noradrenergic before striatal dopaminergic denervation: relevance to Braak staging of synucleinopathy.", "content": "Sympathetic noradrenergic before striatal dopaminergic denervation: relevance to Braak staging of synucleinopathy. Braak's staging concept of Lewy body disease pathogenesis is based on a spatiotemporal sequence of alpha-synuclein deposition, with autonomic nervous system involvement before synucleinopathy in substantia nigra neurons. A patient with primary chronic autonomic failure underwent biennial brain 6-[(18)F]DOPA and myocardial 6-[(18)F]dopamine scanning over 4\u00a0years. Low myocardial radioactivity indicated cardiac noradrenergic denervation that persisted. Striatal 6-[(18)F]DOPA-derived radioactivity initially was normal, 2\u00a0years later was decreased subtly, and by 4\u00a0years was clearly decreased, accompanied by dementia and parkinsonism. In this case, neuroimaging evidence of cardiac noradrenergic denervation and subsequent progressive striatal dopaminergic denervation fit with Braak staging."}
{"id": "21721045", "title": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review.", "content": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) shares common clinical, neuropsychological and pathological features with other dementia subtypes, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), making it difficult to differentiate in clinical practice. Despite the development of consensus diagnostic criteria, many cases are missed, and biomarkers to assist with diagnosis would represent important advances. Our aim was to review the literature to identify potential biomarkers that may distinguish DLB from other dementia subtypes, especially AD. The literature search was performed using Medline up to October 2010 for imaging studies [single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and amyloid imaging] and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers in DLB. Individual articles were examined for additional references. The abstracts of the identified articles were read to determine the most relevant papers, which became the basis for this review. The most robust evidence available was for striatal dopamine transporter activity visualised by (123) I-labelled N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane ((123) I-FP-CIT) SPECT. Several other imaging techniques have also reported promising results, such as [(18) F]fluorodopa PET, which assesses nigrostriatal integrity; [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET, which assesses metabolic deficits; and meta-iodobenzylguanidine imaging, which assesses sympathetic cardiac denervation. Data from studies using CSF measures of amyloid and tau, occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on MRI suggest that they may offer less diagnostic discrimination. Several potential biomarkers have shown good diagnostic accuracy for DLB, but apart from FP-CIT SPECT, there is now a need for larger clinical multi-site studies, as well as for studies with pathological verification of diagnosis, before their use could be recommended for routine clinical practice."}
{"id": "21671144", "title": "Effects of low versus high frequencies of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on cognitive function and cortical excitability in Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Effects of low versus high frequencies of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on cognitive function and cortical excitability in Alzheimer's dementia. The aim of the study was to compare the long-term efficacy of high versus low frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), applied bilaterally over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), on cognitive function and cortical excitability of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Forty-five AD patients were randomly classified into three groups. The first two groups received real rTMS over the DLPFC (20 and 1 Hz, respectively) while the third group received sham stimulation. All patients received one session daily for five consecutive days. In each session, rTMS was applied first over the right DLPFC, immediately followed by rTMS over the left DLPFC. Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Instrumental Daily Living Activity (IADL) scale and the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) were assessed before, after the last (fifth) session, and then followed up at 1 and 3 months. Neurophysiological evaluations included resting and active motor threshold (rMT and aMT), and the duration of transcallosal inhibition (TI) before and after the end of the treatment sessions. At base line assessment there were no significant differences between groups in any of the rating scales. The high frequency rTMS group improved significantly more than the low frequency and sham groups in all rating scales (MMSE, IADL, and GDS) and at all time points after treatment. Measures of cortical excitability immediately after the last treatment session showed that treatment with 20 Hz rTMS reduced TI duration. These results confirm that five daily sessions of high frequency rTMS over the left and then the right DLPFC improves cognitive function in patients with mild to moderate degree of AD. This improvement was maintained for 3 months. High frequency rTMS may be a useful addition to therapy for the treatment of AD."}
{"id": "21454094", "title": "Intravascular lymphomatosis presenting as acute hemispheric dysfunction.", "content": "Intravascular lymphomatosis presenting as acute hemispheric dysfunction. Intravascular lymphomatosis (IVL) is known to affect both hemispheres of the brain and manifests clinically as seizures or dementia. To our knowledge, there have been no cases in which acute hemispheric dysfunction is manifested in IVL. We present a 54-year-old man who showed steroid responsive acute hemispheric dysfunction. A technetium 99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomographic scan of the brain revealed hypoperfusion in the right hemisphere. The bone marrow biopsy specimen confirmed malignant lymphoid cells in vessels, which suggested IVL. Our case signifies the diversity of clinical manifestations in IVL."}
{"id": "21411339", "title": "Prognosis of vascular mild cognitive impairment includes vascular dementia onset and death by cardiovascular disease: reanalysis from the Osaki-Tajiri project.", "content": "Prognosis of vascular mild cognitive impairment includes vascular dementia onset and death by cardiovascular disease: reanalysis from the Osaki-Tajiri project. The relationship of predementia stage with cerebrovascular disease (CVD) has not been fully clarified. Following our Prevalence Study 1998 in Tajiri, Japan, Incidence Study 2003 disclosed that 17.9% of subjects developed vascular dementia (VaD). Some cases developed after stroke (type I), whereas others already met the criteria for subcortical VaD (SVD) despite very mild stage (Clinical Dementia Rating [CDR] 0.5) and progressed to mild stage (CDR 1) (type II). We hypothesized that prognosis of vascular mild cognitive impairment (MCI) included type II VaD or death due to causes associated with vascular risk factors. Prevalence Study 1998 included 497 randomly selected participants, including 346 with a CDR of 0, 119 with a CDR of 0.5, and 32 with a CDR of 1+. The first 2 groups were targeted for Incidence Study 2003. Based on the database, we reanalyzed the ratio of SVD in the subjects with CDR 0.5 and VaD, prognosis with or without CVD, and 2 types of VaD onset. The criteria for SVD were achieved by 67% of those with VaD and by 7% of those with vascular MCI (ie, CDR 0.5). In the CDR 0 group, CVD had no affect on prognosis; however, in the CDR 0.5 group, CVD had an affect on death by cardiovascular disease. The majority of subjects in the CDR 0 and CDR 0.5-CVD (-) groups were classified as type I, whereas all subjects in the CDR 0.5-CVD (+) group were type II. Although vascular MCI is treatable, it may progress to death as well as apparent dementia. Individuals with this \"buried under the community\" phenomenon of SVD should be targeted for secondary prevention interventions."}
{"id": "20685009", "title": "Association of serotonin and dopamine gene pathways with behavioral subphenotypes in dementia.", "content": "Association of serotonin and dopamine gene pathways with behavioral subphenotypes in dementia. Genetic association studies investigating the association between genes of serotonergic and dopaminergic systems and behavioral and psychological symptoms in dementia (BPSD) are contradictory. We have utilized 1008 probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients from the UK and used the 12-item Neuropsychiatric Inventory. We applied a multiple indicators-multiple causes (MIMIC) approach to investigate the effect of 11 polymorphisms on the 4 behavioral subphenotypes \"psychosis\", \"moods\", \"agitation\", and \"behavioural dyscontrol\". Significant associations were observed between the serotonin transporter gene (SERT) polymorphism STin2 and \"psychosis\"; the dopamine transporter gene (DAT) 3' variable number tandem repeats (VNTR) and \"agitation\"; and the dopamine receptor 4 (DRD4) VNTR and \"moods\" factors. Direct associations were identified between the dopamine receptor 3 (DRD3) BalI polymorphism and depression; the dopamine receptor 1 (DRD1) and dopamine transporter gene 3' VNTR polymorphisms and aberrant motor behavior; the DRD4 VNTR and sleep disturbances; and the SERT gene VNTR 5HTTLPR and apathy items. Significant interactions observed between polymorphisms suggested epistatic effects and interactions between polymorphisms and medications highlighted potential treatment response. This multiple indicators multiple causes (MIMIC) model efficiently captured the complexity of the interrelations between genetic variation, behavioral symptoms, and clinical variables."}
{"id": "20359778", "title": "Functional correlates of instrumental activities of daily living in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Functional correlates of instrumental activities of daily living in mild Alzheimer's disease. Instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) includes the integration of task-initiation, -planning, and -performance. Little is known on the cerebral perfusion correlates of these subcomponents of IADL in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In 121 AD patients, cerebral perfusion, using single-photon emission computed tomography, in 13 bilateral regions of interest (ROI) and the perfusion correlates of IADL subcomponents, rated on the Disability Assessment in Dementia scale, were explored. Significant correlations were observed between IADL initiation and multiple bilateral prefrontal-striatal-anterior cingulate ROI (p < 0.01), IADL planning and right occipital ROI (p < 0.05), and IADL performance and right parietal ROI (p < 0.05). Multiple regression, accounting for age, cognitive impairment, and depression severity, revealed significant relationship between right basal ganglia perfusion and IADL-initiation (R = 0.6, R(2) = 0.39, F(4,117) = 17.8, SE = 1.56; p < 0.001) and right occipital perfusion and IADL-planning (R = 0.6, R(2) = 0.34, F(4,117) = 19.5, SE = 1.47; p < 0.001). In AD, perfusion correlates of these subcomponents may be linked to the heterogenous cognitive processes involved in IADL."}
{"id": "22787845", "title": "[Statistical voxel-based analysis of PET/SPECT images in dementia].", "content": "[Statistical voxel-based analysis of PET/SPECT images in dementia]."}
{"id": "22714610", "title": "Development of frontotemporal dementia in a case of bipolar affective disorder: is there a link?", "content": "Development of frontotemporal dementia in a case of bipolar affective disorder: is there a link? The authors present the case of a 68-year-old lady with a 35-year history of bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) type I, who developed frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Description of the psychopathology is illustrated with examples of patient's writings in order to demonstrate cognitive abilities at different stages. The diagnosis is supported by MRI and SPECT scans. The authors discuss the difficulties in differentiating the clinical presentation of chronic BPAD and FTD and examine the evidence for two important questions: Is there a relationship between BPAD and FTD and is there a relationship between lithium and risk of dementia? This is, to the best of our knowledge, the first reported SPECT scan finding in a case of frontotemporal dementia following chronic bipolar affective disorder."}
{"id": "22611616", "title": "[Vascular or \"lower body Parkinsonism\": rise and fall of a diagnosis].", "content": "[Vascular or \"lower body Parkinsonism\": rise and fall of a diagnosis]. The \"arteriosclerotic parkinsonism\", which is called vascular parkinsonism (VP), was first described by Critchley'. The broad based slow gait, reduced stride lenght, start hesitation, freezing and paratonia was mentioned as \"lower body parkinsonism\" (LBP) which can be associated by slow speech, dysexecutive syndrome, and hand tremor of predominantly postural character. In VP the DAT-scan proved normal dopamine content of the striatum in contrast with Parkinson's disease (PD). Additionally, Lewy bodies of brainstem type were not found in VR Probability of VP increases if central type pathologic gait is prominent; the hands are slightly involved, the MRI indicates transparent periventricular white substance and/or brain atrophy. In some cases differentiation of gait apraxia and parkinsonism could be challenging. There is no rigor of the lower limbs at rest in neither of them, the disturbance of movement is evoked by the gait itself. Three subtypes of \"gait ignition failure\" has been recently described: (1) ignition apraxia, (2) equilibrium apraxia and (3) mixed gait apraxia. The primary progressive freesing gait was considered as a Parkinson-plus syndrome. Freesing occurs more frequently in diseases with pakinsonism than in PD. The grade of ventricle dilatation and the frontal leukoaraiosis was similar in LBP and gait apraxia. In cases of normal pressure hydrocephalus the impaired gait may mimic PD. Pathologic gait in VP can be explained by the lesions of the senso-motor association pathways in dorsal paramedian white substance within the vulnerable borderzone region. These may be colocalized with the representation of the lower extremities in the posterior third of the supplementer motor area. Rektor2 proposed to change the name of LBP to \"cerebrovascular gait disorder\". Notwithstandig central type gait disorder develops also in many degenerative diseases other than cerebro-vascular origin. The neuronal net controling the regulation of movement is widespread, therefore several cortical and subcortical lesions could elicit large variations of pathologic gait, ie.: ataxia, apraxia, ignition failure, akinesis etc. most of the central gait disorders regarding the pathology and their appearance can not be called \"parkinsonism\"; these are much closer related to the localization of lesions rather than to the diagnostic categories."}
{"id": "22188660", "title": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report.", "content": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) is the rate-limiting enzyme for producing \u03b3-aminobutyric acid, and it has been suggested that antibodies against GAD play a role in neurological conditions and type 1 diabetes. However, it is not known whether dementia appears as the sole neurological manifestation associated with anti-GAD antibodies in the central nervous system. We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroradiological findings of a 73-year-old female with cognitive dysfunction and type 1A diabetes. Observation and neuropsychological studies revealed linguistic problems, short-term memory disturbance, and frontal dysfunction. MRI showed no significant lesion except for confluent small T2-hyperintensity areas localized in the left basal ganglia. \u00b9\u2078F-fluorodeoxy glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine-single photon emission computed tomography (IMP-SPECT) studies showed bifrontal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion. Immunomodulating therapy with intravenous high-dose immunoglobulin resulted in no remission of the cognitive symptoms. Cognitive dysfunction may develop as an isolated neurological manifestation in association with type 1A diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity. A systematic study with extensive neuropsychological assessment is indicated in patients with type 1 diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity."}
{"id": "22163275", "title": "Redistribution of DAT/\u03b1-synuclein complexes visualized by \"in situ\" proximity ligation assay in transgenic mice modelling early Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Redistribution of DAT/\u03b1-synuclein complexes visualized by \"in situ\" proximity ligation assay in transgenic mice modelling early Parkinson's disease. Alpha-synuclein, the major component of Lewy bodies, is thought to play a central role in the onset of synaptic dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease (PD). In particular, \u03b1-synuclein may affect dopaminergic neuron function as it interacts with a key protein modulating dopamine (DA) content at the synapse: the DA transporter (DAT). Indeed, recent evidence from our \"in vitro\" studies showed that \u03b1-synuclein aggregation decreases the expression and membrane trafficking of the DAT as the DAT is retained into \u03b1-synuclein-immunopositive inclusions. This notwithstanding, \"in vivo\" studies on PD animal models investigating whether DAT distribution is altered by the pathological overexpression and aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein are missing. By using the proximity ligation assay, a technique which allows the \"in situ\" visualization of protein-protein interactions, we studied the occurrence of alterations in the distribution of DAT/\u03b1-synuclein complexes in the SYN120 transgenic mouse model, showing insoluble \u03b1-synuclein aggregates into dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal system, reduced striatal DA levels and an altered distribution of synaptic proteins in the striatum. We found that DAT/\u03b1-synuclein complexes were markedly redistributed in the striatum and substantia nigra of SYN120 mice. These alterations were accompanied by a significant increase of DAT striatal levels in transgenic animals when compared to wild type littermates. Our data indicate that, in the early pathogenesis of PD, \u03b1-synuclein acts as a fine modulator of the dopaminergic synapse by regulating the subcellular distribution of key proteins such as the DAT."}
{"id": "22151238", "title": "Specific feature of olfactory dysfunction with Alzheimer's disease inspected by the Odor Stick Identification Test.", "content": "Specific feature of olfactory dysfunction with Alzheimer's disease inspected by the Odor Stick Identification Test. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most significant diseases associated with ageing. As the disease progresses, symptoms including olfactory dysfunction often appear along with cognitive dysfunction. We examined olfactory and other indexes to investigate correlations between them and the validity of an olfactory test for screening for AD. To assess whether odorant identification will be a useful diagnostic tool, we investigated the olfactory ability of Alzheimer's disease patients (ADs) using the Odor Stick Identification Test for the Japanese. As a control, we compared ADs to aged people without AD or dementia. To investigate the relationship between olfactory loss and severity of AD, we used the Mini-Mental State Examination, Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale, biomarkers in spinal fluid and single-photon emission computed tomography as brain imaging. In comparing the controls and ADs, we believe that there are significant differences, with ADs having particularly low activity with regard to olfactory function and some odorants. We showed that there was a definite correlation between cognitive and olfactory function. To confirm this, we sorted subjects by markers of severity scores for comparison. In all areas, the AD group had more serious olfactory dysfunction, including in the early stages of AD. This study suggests that olfactory tests such as the Odor Stick Identification Test for the Japanese can be useful for assessing severity of AD, including cognitive dysfunction. Further investigations will enable us to establish an olfactory assessment method for the screening or diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "22136899", "title": "Does idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (iRBD) really exist? What are the potential markers of neurodegeneration in iRBD?", "content": "Does idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (iRBD) really exist? What are the potential markers of neurodegeneration in iRBD? REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) may be idiopathic or associated with other neurologic disorders. A strong association between RBD and \u03b1-synucleinopathies has recently been observed, with the parasomnia often heralding the clinical onset of the neurodegenerative disease. The idiopathic form accounts for up to 60% of the cases reported in the three largest series of patients with RBD. Some clinical follow-up studies revealed that a large proportion of these patients will eventually develop a parkinsonian syndrome or a dementia of the Lewy bodies type in the years following the RBD diagnosis. The estimated 10-year risk of neurodegenerative disease for idiopathic RBD is about 40%. Moreover, it has been reported that the median interval between RBD and subsequent neurologic syndrome is 25years. Several studies have looked at neurophysiologic and neuropsychological functions in idiopathic RBD and have found evidence of CNS dysfunction during both wakefulness and sleep in a variable proportion of these patients, challenging the concept of idiopathic RBD. Identifying subjects with a high risk of developing a neurodegenerative process may be crucial to develop early intervention strategies. Prospective studies in idiopathic RBD showed that potential markers of neurodegeneration include: (1) marked EEG slowing on spectral analysis; (2) decreased striatal 123I-FP-CIT binding and substantia nigra hyperechogenicity; (3) impaired olfactory function; (4) impaired color vision."}
{"id": "22106763", "title": "Evaluation of therapeutic response to donepezil by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Evaluation of therapeutic response to donepezil by positron emission tomography. Donepezil hydrochloride (Donepezil) is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) that is used for the symptomatic treatment of Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type (DAT). Recently, the effects of AChEI in patients with DAT have been investigated using positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). This study is to evaluate the usefulness of fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET in assessing the therapeutic response of Donepezil to DAT using Regions of Interest (ROI) analysis. The participants included eleven outpatients diagnosed as having DAT according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). The patients were performed FDG-PET before initiating Donepezil therapy and after 12 weeks of medication. Cognitive change was measured using the Japanese version of the Alzheimer's disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale (ADAS-J cog) and the group was divided into Responders and Non-responders based on these results. We used FDG-PET to investigate glucose metabolism of the brain and measured FDG uptake in the ROI set in each lobe of the brain. Then the ratios of the post-treatment uptake to pre-treatment uptake were determined. In the Responders, the mean ratios in the frontal, temporal, occipital, parietal, and temporoparietal lobes were 2.18, 1.62, 1.15, 1.12, and 1.09 respectively. The mean ratios of the Non-responders were 0.69, 0.88, 0.75, 0.98, and 0.68 respectively. Significant differences were found between the ratios of the Responders and Non-responders in the frontal and occipital lobes (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that FDG-PET could be useful for the evaluation for monitoring response to Donepezil."}
{"id": "22095040", "title": "Early and presenting symptoms of dementia with lewy bodies.", "content": "Early and presenting symptoms of dementia with lewy bodies. To explore the presenting and early symptoms of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Patients with mild dementia fulfilling diagnostic criteria for DLB (n = 61) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 109) were recruited from outpatient dementia clinics in western Norway. At diagnosis, caregivers were asked which symptom had been the presenting symptom of dementia. Caregivers reported that memory impairment was the most common presenting symptom in DLB (57%), followed by visual hallucinations (44%), depression (34%), problem solving difficulties (33%), gait problems (28%), and tremor/stiffness (25%). In contrast, 99% of AD carers reported impaired memory as a presenting symptom, whereas visual hallucinations were a presenting symptom in 3% of the AD cases. DLB should be suspected in predementia cases with visual hallucinations."}
{"id": "22090514", "title": "Authentically phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein at Ser129 accelerates neurodegeneration in a rat model of familial Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Authentically phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein at Ser129 accelerates neurodegeneration in a rat model of familial Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) and the appearance of fibrillar aggregates of insoluble \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) called Lewy bodies (LBs). Approximately 90% of \u03b1-syn deposited in LBs is phosphorylated at serine 129 (Ser129). In contrast, only 4% of total \u03b1-syn is phosphorylated in normal brain, suggesting that accumulation of Ser129-phosphorylated \u03b1-syn is involved in the pathogenesis of PD. However, the role of Ser129 phosphorylation in \u03b1-syn neurotoxicity remains unclear. In this study, we coexpressed familial PD-linked A53T \u03b1-syn and G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 (GRK6) in the rat SN pars compacta using recombinant adeno-associated virus 2. Coexpression of these proteins yielded abundant Ser129-phosphorylated \u03b1-syn and significantly exacerbated degeneration of dopaminergic neurons when compared with coexpression of A53T \u03b1-syn and GFP. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ser129-phosphorylated \u03b1-syn was preferentially distributed to swollen neurites. However, biochemical analysis showed that the increased expression of Ser129-phosphorylated \u03b1-syn did not promote accumulation of detergent-insoluble \u03b1-syn. Coexpression of catalytically inactive K215R mutant GRK6 failed to accelerate A53T \u03b1-syn-induced degeneration. Furthermore, introducing a phosphorylation-incompetent mutation, S129A, into A53T \u03b1-syn did not alter the pace of degeneration, even when GRK6 was coexpressed. Our study demonstrates that authentically Ser129-phosphorylated \u03b1-syn accelerates A53T \u03b1-syn neurotoxicity without the formation of detergent-insoluble \u03b1-syn, and suggests that the degenerative process could be constrained by inhibiting the kinase that phosphorylates \u03b1-syn at Ser129."}
{"id": "22085955", "title": "The Memory Clinic--outpatient assessment when dementia is suspected.", "content": "The Memory Clinic--outpatient assessment when dementia is suspected. The patients who are assessed at Oslo University Hospital's Memory Clinic are young--half of them are under 65 years of age. Most are suffering from mild cognitive impairment or dementia at a very early phase while others come to get a second opinion. The assessment takes 2 - 3 hours and is conducted by a doctor and a nurse. It includes a clinical investigation, cognitive testing, an MRI scan with measurement of the medial temporal lobes, a lumbar puncture and single-photon-emission tomography (SPECT of the brain)."}
{"id": "22065755", "title": "\u03b1-Synuclein fate is determined by USP9X-regulated monoubiquitination.", "content": "\u03b1-Synuclein fate is determined by USP9X-regulated monoubiquitination. \u03b1-Synuclein is central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD). Mutations as well as accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein promote the death of dopaminergic neurons and the formation of Lewy bodies. \u03b1-Synuclein is monoubiquitinated by SIAH, but the regulation and roles of monoubiquitination in \u03b1-synuclein biology are poorly understood. We now report that the deubiquitinase USP9X interacts in vivo with and deubiquitinates \u03b1-synuclein. USP9X levels are significantly lower in cytosolic fractions of PD substantia nigra and Diffuse Lewy Body disease (DLBD) cortices compared to controls. This was associated to lower deubiquitinase activity toward monoubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein in DLBD cortical extracts. A fraction of USP9X seems to be aggregated in PD and DLBD, as USP9X immunoreactivity is detected in Lewy bodies. Knockdown of USP9X expression promotes accumulation of monoubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein species and enhances the formation of toxic \u03b1-synuclein inclusions upon proteolytic inhibition. On the other hand, by manipulating USP9X expression levels in the absence of proteolytic impairment, we demonstrate that monoubiquitination controls the partition of \u03b1-synuclein between different protein degradation systems. Deubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein is mostly degraded by autophagy, while monoubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein is preferentially degraded by the proteasome. Moreover, monoubiquitination promotes the degradation of \u03b1-synuclein, whereas deubiquitination leads to its accumulation, suggesting that the degradation of deubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein by the autophagy pathway is less efficient than the proteasomal one. Lower levels of cytosolic USP9X and deubiquitinase activity in \u03b1-synucleinopathies may contribute to the accumulation and aggregation of monoubiquitinated \u03b1-synuclein in Lewy bodies. Our data indicate that monoubiquitination is a key determinant of \u03b1-synuclein fate."}
{"id": "22057225", "title": "Progression from mild to pronounced MCI is not associated with cerebrospinal fluid biomarker deviations.", "content": "Progression from mild to pronounced MCI is not associated with cerebrospinal fluid biomarker deviations. Detection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker deviations improve prediction of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. However, it is not settled whether the same pattern exists in patients progressing from very mild to more pronounced MCI. Given that neurodegenerative processes occur very early in the disease course, we also expected to find biomarker deviations in these patients. A total of 246 memory clinic patients with non-progressive (n = 161), progressive (n = 19), or converting (n = 66) MCI, 67 with stable dementia, and 80 controls were followed for 24 months. At baseline, CSF total tau (T-tau), \u03b2-amyloid 1-42 (A\u03b242) and the light subunit of neurofilament protein (NFL) were determined. Patients with converting MCI and stable dementia had lower CSF A\u03b242 concentrations and higher T-tau concentrations and NFL in comparison with controls and non-progressive/progressive MCI (p < 0.0005). No differences were found between progressive and non-progressive MCI. As expected, biomarker deviations predicted progression from MCI to dementia. Contrary to our hypothesis, progression from very mild MCI to more pronounced MCI was not reflected by biomarker deviations. The results suggest that the measured biomarkers are not early disease markers, or alternatively Alzheimer or vascular pathology is not the underlying cause in this patient group."}
{"id": "22056602", "title": "Dynamic modeling of \u03b1-synuclein aggregation in dopaminergic neuronal system indicates points of neuroprotective intervention: experimental validation with implications for Parkinson's therapy.", "content": "Dynamic modeling of \u03b1-synuclein aggregation in dopaminergic neuronal system indicates points of neuroprotective intervention: experimental validation with implications for Parkinson's therapy. Protein aggregation is the major pathological hallmark seen in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Alpha-synuclein (\u03b1S) is the main component of protein aggregates that form Lewy bodies (LBs) in PD and dementia with LBs. There have been several attempts to intervene in the process of expression, modification, clearance, and aggregation of \u03b1S as a therapeutic strategy toward neuroprotection. In this study, we have employed a novel, predictive, system level approach in silico to study four different strategies of anti-aggregation therapies: (a) reduction in \u03b1S modifications such as phosphorylation, nitration, or truncation in an approach called \"seed clearance;\" (b) \"anti-oligomerization\" approach through blocking the early oligomers formation; (c) \"oligomers clearance\" process by increasing its lysosomal degradation; and (d) \"anti-aggregation\" that involves prevention of aggregate formation at a later stage. These strategies were tested in a virtual dopaminergic neuronal system triggered by overexpression (OE) of mutant \u03b1S-A53T with or without rotenone (Rot)-induced oxidative stress. The results were compared by analyzing markers related to various end points such as oxidative stress, dopamine (DA) metabolism, proteasome function, survival and apoptosis. The experimental system and anti-oligomerization strategies were recapitulated in vitro in M17 dopaminergic cells overexpressing mutant \u03b1S-A53T triggered with Cu(II)-mediated oxidative stress, and the experimental data prospectively corroborated with the predictive results. Through this analysis, we found that intervention in the early part of the aggregation pathway by prevention of oligomer formation and increased clearance is indeed a good neuroprotective strategy, whereas anti-aggregation efforts to break up the aggregate at later stages has negative effects on the system."}
{"id": "21995845", "title": "Dopamine and \u03b1-synuclein dysfunction in Smad3 null mice.", "content": "Dopamine and \u03b1-synuclein dysfunction in Smad3 null mice. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by dopaminergic neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra (SN). Transforming growth factor-\u03b21 (TGF-\u03b21) levels increase in patients with PD, although the effects of this increment remain unclear. We have examined the mesostriatal system in adult mice deficient in Smad3, a molecule involved in the intracellular TGF-\u03b21 signalling cascade. Striatal monoamine oxidase (MAO)-mediated dopamine (DA) catabolism to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) is strongly increased, promoting oxidative stress that is reflected by an increase in glutathione levels. Fewer astrocytes are detected in the ventral midbrain (VM) and striatal matrix, suggesting decreased trophic support to dopaminergic neurons. The SN of these mice has dopaminergic neuronal degeneration in its rostral portion, and the pro-survival Erk1/2 signalling is diminished in nigra dopaminergic neurons, not associated with alterations to p-JNK or p-p38. Furthermore, inclusions of \u03b1-synuclein are evident in selected brain areas, both in the perikaryon (SN and paralemniscal nucleus) or neurites (motor and cingulate cortices, striatum and spinal cord). Interestingly, these \u03b1-synuclein deposits are detected with ubiquitin and P(S129)-\u03b1-synuclein in a core/halo cellular distribution, which resemble those observed in human Lewy bodies (LB). Smad3 deficiency promotes strong catabolism of DA in the striatum (ST), decrease trophic and astrocytic support to dopaminergic neurons and may induce \u03b1-synuclein aggregation, which may be related to early parkinsonism. These data underline a role for Smad3 in \u03b1-synuclein and DA homeostasis, and suggest that modulatory molecules of this signalling pathway should be evaluated as possible neuroprotective agents."}
{"id": "21987568", "title": "[A clinicopathological study of young-onset dementia: report of 2 autopsied cases].", "content": "[A clinicopathological study of young-onset dementia: report of 2 autopsied cases]. We retrospectively examined the clinical features and the neuroradiological findings on autopsy of 2 cases of young-onset dementia. The patient in case 1 was a 43-year-old woman who was unable to determine the time on the clock and who made frivolous remarks. Neuropsychological test batteries demonstrated memory impairment and frontal lobe dysfunction. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head revealed abnormal high-intensity signals around the lateral ventricles and thinning of the corpus callosum. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) revealed patchy reduction in the accumulation of tracers in both the frontal lobes. Her neurological condition gradually deteriorated, and she died 13 years after the onset of the disease. She was clinically diagnosed with atypical Alzheimer's disease on the basis of visual cognitive impairment and memory impairment observed in the initial phase. However, the neuropathological diagnosis was adult-onset leukodystrophy with axonal spheroids. The patient in case 2 was a 43-year-old man who had gradually started behaving selfishly and had become ill-tempered and apathetic. He was admitted to a hospital. He was anosognosic and showed frontal lobe dysfunction. T2-weighted MRI scan of the brain showed abnormal high-intensity signals around the lateral ventricles; atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes, hippocampus, and brainstem; and thinning of the corpus callosum. SPECT revealed patchy reduction in the accumulation of tracers in both the frontal lobes and the cerebellum. His neurological condition gradually deteriorated, and he died after being clinically ill for 7 years. The patient was clinically diagnosed with frontotemporal dementia on the basis of the clinical features and MRI findings. However, the neuropathological diagnosis was chronic meningoencephalitis. The frequency of neurological metabolic and inflammatory diseases is significantly high although it is not as high as that of degenerative diseases in young-onset dementia. Since such diseases may respond to therapy, they should be considered in the differential diagnosis of young-onset dementia, especially in patients presenting with atypical clinical features. Neuroradiological examination may contribute to the differential diagnosis of atypical dementia at young age."}
{"id": "21971454", "title": "Nuclear medicine diagnostic techniques in the era of pathophysiology-based CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Nuclear medicine diagnostic techniques in the era of pathophysiology-based CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. Nuclear medicine techniques were the first functional imaging techniques used to support the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Perfusion-SPECT allows registration of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) which is altered in a characteristic temporal-parietal pattern in AD. Numerous studies have shown the diagnostic value of reduced CBF and metabolic changes using perfusion-SPECT and FDG-PET in AD diagnosis as well as in differential diagnosis against frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy-Bodies (DLB), and vascular cognitive disorders. This renders perfusion-SPECT an important piece of the puzzle (together with other diagnostic tests) by the clinician is often faced when making a final etiologic dementia diagnosis especially between AD and FTD. A similar diagnostic value can be expected when arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI sequence is used, but the diagnostic value has yet to be confirmed in lager studies. Recently, more pathophysiology-based biomarkers in CSF and Amyloid-PET tracers have been developed that probably have a higher diagnostic accuracy than the more indirect rCBF changes seen in perfusion-SPECT. In the current review, we describe recent advances in AD biomarkers as well as improvements in the SPECT technique."}
{"id": "21962800", "title": "Diagnostic performance of iodine-123-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy in differential diagnosis between Parkinson's disease and multiple-system atrophy: a systematic review and a meta-analysis.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of iodine-123-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy in differential diagnosis between Parkinson's disease and multiple-system atrophy: a systematic review and a meta-analysis. This study was designed to review the diagnostic performance of iodine-123-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy in differential diagnosis between Parkinson's disease (PD) and multiple-system atrophy (MSA). A comprehensive computer literature search of studies published through March 2011 regarding MIBG scintigraphy in patients with PD and MSA was performed in PubMed/MEDLINE and Embase databases. Only studies in which MIBG scintigraphy was performed for differential diagnosis between PD and MSA were selected. Pooled sensitivity and specificity of MIBG scintigraphy were presented with a 95% confidence interval (CI). The area under the ROC curve was calculated to measure the accuracy of MIBG scintigraphy in differential diagnosis between PD and MSA. Ultimately, we identified 12 studies comprising a total of 1226 patients (593 patients with PD, 117 patients with other Lewy body disease, 129 patients with MSA, and 387 patients with other diseases). The pooled sensitivity of MIBG scintigraphy to detect PD was 89% (95% CI: 86-91%); the pooled specificity of MIBG scintigraphy to discriminate between PD and MSA was 77% (95% CI: 68-84%). The area under the ROC curve was 0.93. MIBG scintigraphy is an accurate test for PD detection and differential diagnosis between PD and MSA; this method shows high sensitivity and adequate specificity in this field. Nevertheless, possible causes of false negative and false positive findings should be considered when interpreting the scintigraphic results."}
{"id": "21951958", "title": "Presenile dementia diagnosed as posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Presenile dementia diagnosed as posterior cortical atrophy. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) was originally proposed in 1988 based on five cases of dementia presenting characteristic clinical symptoms. The concept of PCA is still not generally accepted. Herein, we present a case of a presenile female with PCA. A 57-year-old woman was brought to the hospital by her older sister. The patient's chief complaints were that she could not drive a car safely and had caused numerous traffic accidents. Construction apraxia and unilateral spatial agnosia were detected by neuropsychological tests. The patient could not write a coherent the letter even though she was well educated. In addition, she demonstrated slight memory disturbance and she needed her sister's support in daily life. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography examinations confirmed bilateral posterior atrophy and significant hypoperfusion in the occipital regions. The neuropathological background of PCA remains unclear. Therefore, the concept of PCA should be validated by the accumulation of information from more cases."}
{"id": "21951956", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies is associated with higher scores on the Geriatric Depression Scale than is Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies is associated with higher scores on the Geriatric Depression Scale than is Alzheimer's disease. Several reports suggest a higher morbidity of depression in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) than in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, these results have not been duplicated consistently. The psychiatric symptoms of dementia, including depression, are important for its diagnosis and management. Thus, the aim of the present study was to clarify the characteristics of the depressive symptoms in DLB compared with AD using the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). We examined the GDS score for 86 patients with probable DLB (based on the Consensus Criteria for the clinical diagnosis of DLB) and 86 patients with probable AD (based on criteria of the National Institute for Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association), who were matched according to age, sex, education, and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores. We also examined correlations between GDS scores and age, sex, or MMSE scores in both groups. Correlations between GDS scores and metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy were examined in patients with DLB. To characterize the GDS in DLB, its profile was examined using factor structures. Scores for DLB patients were twice as high on the GDS as those for AD patients. There was no correlation between GDS score and age, sex, or MMSE scores in either group. Furthermore, there was no correlation between the results of MIBG scintigraphy and GDS scores in the DLB group. Using factor structures, the depression symptom profile of these diseases suggested that depression-specific symptoms, such as mood, worry, or future outlook, were more frequent in the DLB group than non-specific symptoms, such as lack of energy, decreased concentration, or apathy. The data suggest that depressive symptoms are highly specific symptoms of DLB, independent of other features of this disorder. The GDS could be used as a subsidiary tool in differentiating DLB from AD and is more useful than clinical observations of depression."}
{"id": "21899142", "title": "[Dementia: progress in diagnosis and treatment: Topics, II. Diagnosis; 2. Neuroimaging diagnosis of dementia (MRI SPECT and PET)].", "content": "[Dementia: progress in diagnosis and treatment: Topics, II. Diagnosis; 2. Neuroimaging diagnosis of dementia (MRI SPECT and PET)]."}
{"id": "21896306", "title": "Imaging biomarkers in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Imaging biomarkers in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons associated with intracellular Lewy inclusion bodies. The result is poverty of movement, increased muscle rigidity, and tremor at rest and on posture. Midbrain/nigral structural abnormalities can be demonstrated in vivo with both transcranial sonography (TCS) and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) while positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ligands exist to demonstrate dopamine terminal dysfunction. These radiotracers are markers of dopamine storage capacity, vesicular monoamine and dopamine transporter availability. While loss of putamen dopaminergic function leads to motor disability, Lewy bodies not only target dopamine neurons but have also been observed in serotoninergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic neurons. As a consequence, non-dopaminergic neurotransmission is also impaired resulting in non-motor symptoms including sleep disturbance, fatigue, depression, dementia, and autonomic dysfunction. PET and SPECT ligands exist to interrogate the function of monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons. Cortical and limbic Lewy body disease is seen in more advanced PD and this can be detected with FDG PET as abnormal covariance between levels of resting brain metabolism in these regions. Additionally, widespread microglial activation can be detected in PD with PET. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for understanding parkinsonian syndromes and aiding in their diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "21881402", "title": "Nuclear medicine imaging in dementia: a practical overview for hospitalists.", "content": "Nuclear medicine imaging in dementia: a practical overview for hospitalists. Dementia is a clinical syndrome with diverse presentation, a challenging differential diagnosis, and time-sensitive therapy. The most common cause of dementia in patients aged > 65 years is Alzheimer's disease, which now affects 4 million people in the United States, but is often underrecognized, especially in the inpatient population. The hospitalist may have the opportunity to evaluate a patient's initial presentation of dementia. Addressing the inpatient's dementia symptoms can improve overall care and outcomes, so it is imperative that the hospitalist is abreast of recent developments in the dementia workup. The focus of this article is to overview how nuclear medicine imaging of the brain can aid in this process, with perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and fludeoxyglucose F 18 ((18)F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) as the 2 most common modalities. Our discussion focuses on Alzheimer's disease, as this the most common etiology of dementia in patients aged > 65 years; however, we also touch on the other common neurodegenerative dementias (eg, dementia with Lewy bodies, vascular dementia, and frontotemporal dementia) for completeness. We begin with a summary of the most recent published guidelines for each of these neurodegenerative diseases, and then expand on the role that nuclear imaging plays in each. We provide a basic overview of the principles of these nuclear medicine techniques, and then illustrate findings in perfusion SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET for typical patterns of dementia, with emphasis on evidence regarding diagnostic accuracy of each modality, in comparison with accepted gold standards. Finally, we outline some future research topics within the field of nuclear medicine in dementia, including amyloid plaque imaging and dopamine transporter imaging."}
{"id": "21878726", "title": "[A case of Charles Bonnet syndrome following syphilitic optic neuritis].", "content": "[A case of Charles Bonnet syndrome following syphilitic optic neuritis]. Charles Bonnet syndrome refers to visual hallucinations in patients with visual acuity loss or visual field loss without dementia. We report a case of Charles Bonnet syndrome following syphilitic optic neuritis. A 62-year-old man was admitted to our hospital suffering acute bilateral visual loss in a few months. On admission, he was almost blind and his optic discs were found to be atrophic on fundoscopy. In addition to increased cell counts and protein concentration in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), serum and CSF rapid plasma reagin tests were positive. A diagnosis of syphilitic optic neuritis was made and he was treated with intravenous penicillin G (24 million units per day for 14 days) without any recovery. After treatment finished, he began to experience complex, vivid, elaborate and colored visual hallucinations. He recognized these visions as unreal and felt distressed by them. No cognitive impairment was observed on several neuropsychological tests. We diagnosed the patient as suffering from Charles Bonnet syndrome. Brain MRI revealed diffuse mild atrophy of the cerebral cortex and multiple T2 high signal intensity lesions in the deep cerebral white matter. Single photon emission computed tomography revealed decreased regional cerebral blood flow in bilateral medial occipital lobes. Administration of olanzapine resulted in a partial remission of visual hallucinations. Charles Bonnet syndrome following syphilitic optic neuritis is rare. In the present case, visual loss and dysfunction of bilateral medial occipital lobes may have triggered the visual hallucinations, which were alleviated by olanzapine."}
{"id": "21843378", "title": "Dopaminergic imaging: clinical utility now and in the future.", "content": "Dopaminergic imaging: clinical utility now and in the future. Over the past ten years, dopaminergic imaging has become increasingly part of the assessment and diagnosis of dementia. There are numerous PET and SPECT ligands available that target different steps in the process of neurotransmission. Abnormalities in dopaminergic imaging measures are consistent features of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and other parkinsonian syndromes, and can be used to facilitate diagnosis, particularly in distinguishing between DLB and Alzheimer's disease. This review summarizes present knowledge in this area and the implications for current and future clinical practice."}
{"id": "21810889", "title": "The role of dopaminergic imaging in patients with symptoms of dopaminergic system neurodegeneration.", "content": "The role of dopaminergic imaging in patients with symptoms of dopaminergic system neurodegeneration. Diagnosis of neurological and psychiatric conditions associated with disturbances of dopaminergic functioning can be challenging, especially in the early stages, and may be assisted with biomarkers such as dopamine system imaging. Distinguishing between Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies is a major diagnostic challenge. Clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is straightforward with classic presentation, but accurate distinction among Parkinsonian variants may be difficult; non-Parkinson's disease conditions are commonly misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease, and ~20% of patients with Parkinson's disease are not clinically diagnosed despite coming to medical attention. Early and accurate diagnosis is desirable to improve management. Imaging of the dopamine transporter using single-photon emission computed tomography may be of particular utility in this regard. Abnormal imaging indicates underlying nigrostriatal neurodegeneration, supportive of a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, atypical parkinsonism or dementia with Lewy bodies, and identifies patient groups in whom dopaminergic therapy may be beneficial. Normal imaging supports diagnosis of a condition not involving nigrostriatal neurodegeneration such as Alzheimer's disease, essential tremor or drug-induced parkinsonism and hence a different therapeutic approach. In patients in whom there was diagnostic uncertainty between degenerative parkinsonism and non-degenerative tremor disorders, baseline imaging with the dopamine transporter ligand [(123)I]ioflupane (DaTscan\u2122) has shown 78% sensitivity and 97% specificity with reference to clinical diagnosis at 3 years, versus 93% and 46%, respectively, for baseline clinical diagnosis. In a Phase III trial of [(123)I]ioflupane in patients with initial clinical diagnosis of probable or possible dementia with Lewy bodies or non-Lewy body dementia, mean specificity for excluding non-Lewy body dementia (predominantly Alzheimer's disease) was 90.4%. Using clinical diagnosis as a reference against which to assess sensitivity and specificity of dopamine transporter imaging is a limitation, but definitive diagnosis via pathological confirmation is generally not feasible. In a series of patients with post-mortem brain examination, imaging using [(123)I]ioflupane has demonstrated higher sensitivity (88%) and specificity (100%) for differentiating dementia with Lewy bodies from non-Lewy body dementia than clinical diagnosis (75% and 42%, respectively). Dopaminergic system imaging may be particularly valuable in patients with clinically inconclusive parkinsonism or a clinical diagnosis of possible dementia with Lewy bodies; it is not helpful in differentiating between Parkinson's disease and atypical parkinsonism, although postsynaptic dopaminergic imaging may be of utility. Other potential uses of dopamine transporter imaging include identification of patients with premotor Parkinson's disease, monitoring disease progression in testing novel therapeutics, and as an inclusion criterion for entry into clinical trials."}
{"id": "21779719", "title": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: current role in clinical practice and potential future applications.", "content": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: current role in clinical practice and potential future applications. 'Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia and its prevalence is expected to increase in the coming years. Therefore, accurate diagnosis is crucial for patients, clinicians and researchers. Neuroimaging techniques have provided invaluable information about Alzheimer's disease and, owing to recent advances, these methods will have an increasingly important role in research and clinical practice. The purpose of this article is to review recent neuroimaging studies of Alzheimer's disease that provide relevant information to clinical practice, including a new modality: in vivo amyloid imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging, single photon emission computed tomography and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography are currently available for clinical use. Patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease are commonly investigated with magnetic resonance imaging because it provides detailed images of brain structure and allows the identification of supportive features for the diagnosis. Neurofunctional techniques such as single photon emission computed tomography and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography can also be used to complement the diagnostic investigation in cases of uncertainty. Amyloid imaging is a non-invasive technique that uses positron emission tomography technology to investigate the accumulation of the \u03b2-amyloid peptide in the brain, which is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. This is a promising test but currently its use is restricted to very few specialized research centers in the world. Technological innovations will probably increase its availability and reliability, which are the necessary steps to achieve robust clinical applicability. Thus, in the future it is likely that amyloid imaging techniques will be used in the clinical evaluation of patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21762928", "title": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD).", "content": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD). A subtle cognitive impairment can be detected early in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD). Executive, memory and visuospatial functions are specifically affected, but the underlying pathophysiological basis is not well elucidated yet and may be heterogeneous. The recent identification of a PD-related cognitive metabolic pattern (PDCP), including hypometabolism in associative frontal, parietal and posterior limbic structures, has integrated the classical notion of a striato-frontal syndrome at the basis of cognitive dys-function. Recent evidence suggests that whilst executive dys-function is seen in virtually all PD patients, visuospatial and memory impairment may share a higher risk for the subsequent development of dementia. By means of perfusion SPECT and [18F]FDG-PET, cortical dys-function may be highlighted since the early stages, it is more evident in PD patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and reaches the maximum in PD dementia (PDD). Posterior temporo-parieto-occipital dys-function in associative and limbic cortex, closely resembling that found in Alzheimer's disease patients, is found in PDD, with a more severe occipital hypometabolism and a relatively milder hypometabolism in medial temporal lobe structures. Furthermore, deficit of acetylcholinesterase (AchE) can be found by means of [11C]MP4A-PET already in early stage of PD, especially in posterior regions, then becoming more severe in PDD and in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Administration of AchE inhibitors to PDD patients increased brain metabolism in bilateral frontal and left parietal regions, and left posterior cingulate. Finally, the recent availability of radiopharmaceuticals able to disclose amyloid brain deposition has allowed to demonstrate amyloid load in a part of patients with PDD, possibly due to diffuse rather than neuritic plaques. Brain PET and SPECT have strongly contributed to the understanding of the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in PD and may serve as probes to monitor the effects of therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "21757840", "title": "Diffusion-weighted MRI for differentiating Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease mimics.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted MRI for differentiating Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease mimics."}
{"id": "21744382", "title": "Lack of awareness of symptoms in people with dementia: the structural and functional basis.", "content": "Lack of awareness of symptoms in people with dementia: the structural and functional basis. To review studies investigating the brain correlates of unawareness of cognitive and behavioural symptoms in people with dementia. A detailed search of the literature was conducted to include all the peer-reviewed studies published in English aimed at identifying the structural or functional brain correspondents of unawareness in dementia patients. Their results were interpreted in relation to the methodological differences in terms of type of dementia studied, the protocol adopted to measure lack of awareness, the imaging techniques employed, the experimental designs and statistical analyses performed. Eighteen studies undertaken to explore the functional and structural correlates of unawareness of cognitive symptoms in dementia were identified. Although their results showed a disparate range of brain correlates, they were mainly localized in frontal and temporo-parietal regions. Although the anatomical correlates of unawareness of disease in dementia have not yet been exhaustively explored, understanding the correlates of unawareness may also contribute to understand the brain correlates of self-awareness and self-reflection. We discuss the current knowledge base and consider potential future directions for research."}
{"id": "21735318", "title": "Dopamine and paraquat enhance \u03b1-synuclein-induced alterations in membrane conductance.", "content": "Dopamine and paraquat enhance \u03b1-synuclein-induced alterations in membrane conductance. We have previously demonstrated that \u03b1-synuclein overexpression increases the membrane conductance of dopaminergic-like cells. Although \u03b1-synuclein is thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, and diffuse Lewy body disease, the mechanism of action is not completely understood. In this study, we sought to determine whether multiple factors act together with \u03b1-synuclein to engender cell vulnerability through an augmentation of membrane conductance. In this article, we employed a cell model that mimics dopaminergic neurons coupled with \u03b1-synuclein overexpression and oxidative stressors. We demonstrate an enhancement of \u03b1-synuclein-induced toxicity in the presence of combined treatment with dopamine and paraquat, two molecules known to incite oxidative stress. In addition, we show that combined dopamine and paraquat treatment increases the expression of heme oxygenase-1, an antioxidant response protein. Finally, we demonstrate for the first time that combined treatment of dopaminergic cells with paraquat and dopamine enhances \u03b1-synuclein-induced leak channel properties resulting in increased membrane conductance. Importantly, these increases are most robust when both paraquat and dopamine are present suggesting the need for multiple oxidative insults to augment \u03b1-synuclein-induced disruption of membrane integrity."}
{"id": "21729421", "title": "Perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET.", "content": "Perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET. Both perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET provide images that closely reflect neuronal activity. There is a characteristic regional impairment in Alzheimer\u2019s disease (AD) that involves mainly the temporo-parietal association cortices, mesial temporal structures and to a more variable degree also the frontal association cortex. This pattern of functional impairment can provide a biomarker for diagnosis of AD and other neurodegenerative dementias at the clinical stage of mild cognitive impairment, and for monitoring of progression. FDG-PET is quantitatively more accurate and thus better suited to multicenter studies than perfusion SPECT. Regional metabolic and blood flow changes are closely related to clinical symptoms, and most areas involved in these changes will also develop significant cortical atrophy. FDG-PET is complementary to amyloid PET, which targets a molecular marker that does not have a close relation to current symptoms. Current restrictions in the availability and cost of FDG-PET are being reduced, as oncological FDG-PET is being adopted as a standard clinical service in most countries. Limitations in the availability of trained staff should be overcome by training programs set up by professional organizations. Against the background of the development of new criteria for diagnosing AD before the onset of dementia, FDG-PET is expected to play an increasing role in diagnosing patients at an early stage of AD and in clinical trials of drugs aimed at preventing or delaying the onset of dementia."}
{"id": "21729418", "title": "Amyloid imaging.", "content": "Amyloid imaging. Molecular neuroimaging techniques such as PET are proving valuable in the early and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD).With the advent of new therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) burden in the brain to potentially prevent or delay functional and irreversible cognitive loss, there is increased interest in developing agents that allow assessment of A\u03b2 burden in vivo. Amyloid imaging with PET has proven useful in the discrimination of dementias, showing significantly higher A\u03b2 burden in the gray matter of AD patients when compared with healthy controls or patients with frontotemporal dementia. ApoE \u03b54 carriers, independent of diagnosis or disease severity, present with higher A\u03b2 burden than non-\u03b54 carriers. Amyloid imaging matches histopathological reports in aging and dementia, reflecting the true regional density of A\u03b2 plaques in cortical areas. It also appears to be more sensitive than FDG-PET for the diagnosis of AD. In healthy older people there is an increasing prevalence of amyloid positive scans with age, rising from 20% in the seventh decade to 60% in the ninth decade. Of people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 40-60% present with detectable cortical A\u03b2 deposition. In both groups, A\u03b2 deposition is associated with a higher risk for cognitive decline and dementia due to AD. These observations suggest that A\u03b2 deposition is not part of normal aging, supporting the hypothesis that it occurs well before the onset of symptoms and is likely to represent preclinical AD in asymptomatic persons and prodromal AD in MCI. Further longitudinal observations, coupled with different disease-specific tracers and biomarkers, are required to confirm this hypothesis and further elucidate the precise role of A\u03b2 deposition in the course of AD."}
{"id": "21717292", "title": "Drugs of abuse, dopamine, and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders/HIV-associated dementia.", "content": "Drugs of abuse, dopamine, and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders/HIV-associated dementia. Although the incidence of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) has declined, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain a significant health problem despite use of highly active antiretroviral therapy. In addition, the incidence and/or severity of HAND/HAD are increased with concomitant use of drugs of abuse, such as cocaine, marijuana, and methamphetamine. Furthermore, exposure to most drugs of abuse increases brain levels of dopamine, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HIV. This review evaluates the potential role of dopamine in the potentiation of HAND/HAD by drugs of abuse. In the brain, multiplication of HIV in infected macrophages/microglia could result in the release of HIV proteins such as gp120 and Tat, which can bind to and impair dopamine transporter (DAT) functions, leading to elevated levels of dopamine in the dopaminergic synapses in the early asymptomatic stage of HIV infection. Exposure of HIV-infected patients to drugs of abuse, especially cocaine and methamphetamine, can further increase synaptic levels of dopamine via binding to and subsequently impairing the function of DAT. This accumulated synaptic dopamine can diffuse out and activate adjacent microglia through binding to dopamine receptors. The activation of microglia may result in increased HIV replication as well as increased production of inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and chemokines. Increased HIV replication can lead to increased brain viral load and increased shedding of HIV proteins, gp120 and Tat. These proteins, as well as TNF-alpha, can induce cell death of adjacent dopaminergic neurons via apoptosis. Autoxidation and metabolism of accumulated synaptic dopamine can lead to generation of reactive oxygen species (hydrogen peroxide), quinones, and semiquinones, which can also induce apoptosis of neurons. Increased cell death of dopaminergic neurons can eventually lead to dopamine deficit that may exacerbate the severity and/or accelerate the progression of HAND/HAD."}
{"id": "21716018", "title": "Two sequential Tc-99m ECD SPECT studies in a case of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease confirmed at autopsy.", "content": "Two sequential Tc-99m ECD SPECT studies in a case of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease confirmed at autopsy. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a subacute spongiform encephalopathy characterized by rapidly progressive dementia, hard to diagnose during life. We present a case of a patient with pathologically confirmed sporadic form of CJD in whom initial diagnostic tests were negative. Two sequential brain single-photon emission computed tomography with Tc-99m ethyl-cysteinate dimer were performed, the first one was performed few days after the admission into hospital and the second, 1 month later. Both studies revealed a decrease in regional cerebral blood flow indicative of neuronal dysfunction, more pronounced in the second study. Current radionuclide scintigraphy can be an useful tool for the investigation of CJD."}
{"id": "21694448", "title": "Review and meta-analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Review and meta-analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic imaging in Alzheimer's disease. Mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) is often difficult to differentiate from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or non-AD dementias. A multitude of diagnostic biomarkers and advanced imaging strategies have been developed to aid in the diagnosis and management of AD. We sought to review and analyze the published evidence on key test characteristics of major diagnostic strategies to formulate best estimates of sensitivity (SN) and specificity (SP). A systematic review was undertaken to locate and abstract all studies of biomarkers or diagnostic imaging for AD published in English from January 1990 to March 2010 that provided estimates of SN and SP. Meta-analysis was performed using a bivariate mixed-effects binary regression model. We calculated -SN, SP, and area under the receiver operating curves (AUROC), with confidence and prediction contours. Of 1,840 unique studies identified, 119 presented primary data sufficient for analysis. SN and SP were calculated against non-demented controls, non-AD dementias with and without MCI, if available. Compared to non-demented controls, FDG-PET demonstrated the highest AUROC (0.96), with 90% SN (95%CI 84% to 94%), and 89% SP (95% CI 81% to 94%). FDG-PET also was most accurate in discriminating AD from demented controls (including MCI) with AUROC 0.91, and 92% SN (95%CI 84% to 96%) and 78% SP (95% CI 69% to 85%). For discrimination of AD from non-AD dementias (excluding MCI), CSF Ptau, and SPECT produced identical AUROC (0.86). Diagnostic strategies for AD show wide variation in test characteristics and some show promise for use in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21666376", "title": "[Evaluation of shortened protocol of graph plot method with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-IMP].", "content": "[Evaluation of shortened protocol of graph plot method with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-IMP]. The (123)I-IMP Graph Plot is a convenient method of analyzing cerebral blood flow without blood sampling. Data acquisition requires 45 minutes after the infusion of (123)I-IMP because the method is matched to the protocol of autoradiography (conventional method). However, we think that those protocols do not have to be matched because those theories are different. Therefore, we contrived a protocol for shortening that time by beginning SPECT data acquisition earlier and shortening the acquisition time compared to the conventional method. We compared count ratios of the decreased area to an area of the healthy side, quantitative values, and results of statistical analysis of the shortened protocol and the conventional method for cases of cerebral infarction and of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Some count ratios of the shortened protocol were inferior to those of the conventional method, but the degrees did not affect the clinical diagnosis. In the other areas and cases also, the differences did not affect the clinical diagnosis. In addition to the results of this study, some previous reports have described that early SPECT images after infusion show the true cerebral blood flow. Therefore, we judged that this shortened protocol can be used as a clinical protocol."}
{"id": "21590591", "title": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea].", "content": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea]. We report about a woman of 60 years who received psychiatric inpatient treatment for an affective disorder with psychotic symptoms on several occasions. As time elapsed symptoms of dementia became more and more obvious. Despite a comprehensive workup with neuroimaging methods (SPECT, PET) the correct diagnosis of Huntington's Chorea was not attained until the characteristic movements appeared. Up till then pathologic movements had hardly occurred and there were no known cases of Huntington's Chorea in the family. This case is remarkable as the patient was not only treated with different antidepressants and antipsychotics but with a course of ECT too. Beyond this it shows the enormous stress this illness imposes on patients and their caregivers."}
{"id": "21555888", "title": "Familial semantic dementia with P301L mutation in the Tau gene.", "content": "Familial semantic dementia with P301L mutation in the Tau gene. Semantic dementia (SD) is a clinical subclassification of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Patients with 'pure SD' present with semantic memory impairment preceding the frontal symptoms, and there have been no reports of familial cases. We evaluated the clinical features of, and performed neuropsychological examinations on, the proband and two affected family members. Then we performed neuroimaging and genetic analysis of MAPT and other dementia-related genes in the proband. All three cases had semantic memory impairment with loss of word meanings as the primary early symptom. We diagnosed all cases as pure SD and identified a P301L mutation in the MAPT gene of the proband. Although the P301L mutation identified here has been previously described as pathogenic for frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 (FTDP-17), the proband and his two affected relatives showed different clinical symptoms from those of typical FTDP-17 cases who carry the P301L mutation. Pathologically, pure SD usually shows a TAR DNA-binding protein proteinopathy, but the molecular understanding of SD is not well established. Although our cases were clinically pure SD, the proband has a tau gene mutation, which would lead to tauopathy. These findings suggest that reconsideration of the molecular understanding of SD is warranted."}
{"id": "21552550", "title": "Apolipoprotein E4 frequencies in a Japanese population with Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E4 frequencies in a Japanese population with Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. The apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 allele has been reported to be a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Previous neuropathological studies have demonstrated similar frequencies of the APOE \u03b54 allele in AD and DLB. However, the few ante-mortem studies on APOE allele frequencies in DLB have shown lower frequencies than post-mortem studies. One reason for this may be inaccuracy of diagnosis. We examined APOE genotypes in subjects with AD, DLB, and a control group using the latest diagnostic criteria and MRI, SPECT, and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. The subjects of this study consisted of 145 patients with probable AD, 50 subjects with probable DLB, and a control group. AD subjects were divided into two groups based on age of onset: early onset AD (EOAD) and late onset AD (LOAD). All subjects had characteristic features on MRI, SPECT, and/or myocardial scintigraphy. The rate of APOE4 carrier status was 18.3% and the frequency of the \u03b54 allele was 9.7% in controls. The rate of APOE4 carrier status and the frequency of the \u03b54 allele were 47% and 27% for LOAD, 50% and 31% for EOAD, and 42% and 31% for DLB, respectively. The APOE4 genotypes in this study are consistent with previous neuropathological studies suggesting accurate diagnosis of AD and DLB. APOE4 genotypes were similar in AD and DLB, giving further evidence that the \u03b54 allele is a risk factor for both disorders."}
{"id": "21542022", "title": "Brain perfusion and markers of neurodegeneration in rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder.", "content": "Brain perfusion and markers of neurodegeneration in rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder. Potential early markers of neurodegeneration such as subtle motor signs, reduced color discrimination, olfactory impairment, and brain perfusion abnormalities have been reported in idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, a risk factor for Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia. The aim of this study was to reproduce observations of regional cerebral blood flow abnormalities in a larger independent sample of patients and to explore correlations between regional cerebral blood flow and markers of neurodegeneration. Twenty patients with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder and 20 healthy controls were studied by single-photon emission computerized tomography. Motor examination, color discrimination, and olfactory identification were examined. Patients with rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder showed decreased regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal cortex and in medial parietal areas and increased regional cerebral blood flow in subcortical regions including the bilateral pons, putamen, and hippocampus. In rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, brain perfusion in the frontal cortex and occipital areas was associated with poorer performance in the color discrimination test. Moreover, a relationship between loss of olfactory discrimination and regional cerebral blood flow reduction in the bilateral anterior parahippocampal gyrus, a region known to be involved in olfactory functions, was found. This study provides further evidence of regional cerebral blood flow abnormalities in rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder that are similar to those seen in Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia. Moreover, regional cerebral blood flow anomalies were associated with markers of neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "21515087", "title": "Estimation of further disease progression of Parkinson's disease by dopamin transporter scan vs clinical rating.", "content": "Estimation of further disease progression of Parkinson's disease by dopamin transporter scan vs clinical rating. Imaging techniques like \u00df-CIT Scan are valuable diagnostic tools for Parkinson's disease (PD) and correlate in most cases with clinical symptoms. In some patients, however, clinical and imaging data are conflicting. It has not yet been evaluated, which parameter provide more information about severity and disease progression in those patients. To estimate the predictive value of UPDRS and \u00df-CIT in PD on clinical impairment at follow up. In a longitudinal study, 44 PD patients who underwent \u00df-CIT Scan for diagnostic purpose were followed up for a mean of 44 months. At baseline we assessed UPDRS motor score as well as the subtype of PD, presence of dementia or motor complications. Disease staging at follow up was displayed by UPDRS II (ADL) and III (motor score) as well as by Hoehn & Yahr classification. \u00df-CIT could significantly discriminate PD patients from controls and the tracer uptake ratios (UR) correlated well with UPDRS motor score at baseline. There was, however, only a weak correlation between UR and staging parameters at follow up, whereas UPDRS at baseline was highly correlated with impairment at follow up. The data suggest a more significant predictive value of UPDRS motor score on disability in the course of disease progression than \u00df-CIT Scan. Low receptor binding may not be mistaken for a bad prognosis."}
{"id": "21484863", "title": "Rapidly progressive diffuse Lewy body disease.", "content": "Rapidly progressive diffuse Lewy body disease. Lewy body syndromes (mainly Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies) share many clinical features and usually have a slowly progressive course. Some patients may show rapid symptoms progression. To evaluate clinical and neuropathological features of patients with a rapidly progressive diffuse Lewy Body disease. Review clinical records and pathological findings of 6 cases with diffuse Lewy Body disease and rapid disease progression (less than 18 months before death). Mean age at disease onset was 72.5 years, and mean disease duration was 9 months. Onset consisted of delirium in 3 patients and rapidly progressive dementia in the other three. All cases presented visual hallucinations and delusions; cognitive symptoms were fluctuating in two, parkinsonism occurred in four, and myoclonus in three. Brain MRI did not show cortical or basal ganglia hyperintensities. Periodic sharp waves were absent on EEG. 14.3.3 protein in CSF was negative. Myocardial (123) I-metaiodo-benzyl-guanidine SPECT showed marked reduction in tracer uptake in the 2 patients tested. Neuropathological studies did not identify any particular feature that could differentiate rapidly progressive diffuse Lewy body disease from classical diffuse Lewy body disease. Diffuse Lewy body disease is a possible cause of rapidly progressive dementia and should be included in the differential diagnosis of confusional states of undetermined cause. In patients with rapidly progressive dementia, the presence of fluctuating cognition, parkinsonism, hallucinations, delusions, or severe dysautonomia, should raise the suspicion of diffuse Lewy body disease. Neuroimaging studies such as (123) I-metaiodo-benzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy may support the clinical diagnosis of diffuse Lewy body disease. \u00a9 2011 Movement Disorder Society."}
{"id": "21483157", "title": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementias.", "content": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementias."}
{"id": "21462266", "title": "Visual grasping in frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (microtubule-associated with protein tau): a comparison of N-Isopropyl-p-[(123)I]-iodoamphetamine brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography analysis with progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Visual grasping in frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (microtubule-associated with protein tau): a comparison of N-Isopropyl-p-[(123)I]-iodoamphetamine brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography analysis with progressive supranuclear palsy."}
{"id": "21440696", "title": "Evolution of brain imaging instrumentation.", "content": "Evolution of brain imaging instrumentation. Computed tomography (CT) and static magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are now the most common imaging modalities used for anatomic evaluation of pathologic processes affecting the brain. By contrast, radionuclide-based methods, including planar imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET), are the most widely used methods for evaluating brain function. SPECT and PET have been evolving for a longer time than CT and MRI and have made significant contributions to understanding brain function. The pioneering work on cerebral flow early in the last century laid the foundation of measurement with radioactive gases. This was initially performed with scintillation counters, which gave way to single, then multiple scintillation and multiprobe detectors. The invention of rectilinear scanners, MARK series, Anger cameras, and SPECT imaging further advanced nuclear medicine's role in brain imaging. Measurement of regional cerebral blood flow by SPECT provides pathophysiologic information that directs patient management in a variety of central nervous disorders (CNS), with the greatest clinical impact found in cerebrovascular disease and seizure disorder. In the former, SPECT not only provides means of early detection and localization of acute strokes but can also direct thrombolysis and determine prognosis in the postcerebrovascular accident period. With respect to the latter, ictal SPECT can localize seizure foci so that patients with refractory disease can potentially undergo surgical resection of the affected area. In contrast to brain SPECT, brain PET images reflect regional cerebral metabolism. Because of neurovascular coupling, findings on SPECT and PET images are often comparable. PET, however, still has improved spatial resolution and is therefore more sensitive than SPECT, particularly in the evaluation of dementias. Brain PET instrumentation has greatly evolved from its infancy, when it was used in regional localization, to currently providing excellent resolution with imaging characteristics that can greatly impact clinical management. In addition, although ictal SPECT remains more sensitive than interictal PET for detection of seizure foci, the stringent conditions required for SPECT can be difficult to achieve, making interictal PET a very reasonable alternative. The clinical utility of PET and SPECT in neuropsychiatric and addictive disorders has not yet been defined, though a plethora of data exits. This arena of CNS disease has been the impetus for development of neurotransmitter-receptor-specific radioligands, which have already led to better understanding of dopaminergic, GABAergic, and serotonergic pathways. Another functional brain imaging technique that has gained broad acceptance since its invention in the early 1990 s, is functional MRI, which indirectly measures CNS neuronal activity by evaluating oxygenation levels of cerebral vessels. Despite other recent related developments, such as MR spectroscopy, arterial spin labeling, and diffusion tensor imaging, nuclear medicine-based techniques remain clinically relevant and robust modalities, especially with the ever-expanding armamentarium of radiotracers and radioligands in conjunction with industry-driven improvements in image-analysis hardware and software."}
{"id": "21430598", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies and iodine-123 fluoropropyl carbomethoxy-(iodophenyl)tropane scanning.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies and iodine-123 fluoropropyl carbomethoxy-(iodophenyl)tropane scanning."}
{"id": "21418722", "title": "Late-onset-psychosis: cognition.", "content": "Late-onset-psychosis: cognition. The objectives of the study were to characterize and compare the cognitive profile and natural evolution of patients presenting late-onset psychotic symptoms (LOPS: onset \u2265 50 years old) to those of elderly patients (\u2265 50 years old) with life-long/early-onset schizophrenia (EOS: onset <40 years old). Neuropsychological profiles of 15 LOPS patients were compared to those of 17 elderly EOS patients and to those of two control groups (n = 11/group). The evolution of the two patient groups was compared using an independent diagnostic consensual procedure involving a geriatric psychiatry physician/clinician and a neuropsychologist blinded to the initial psychiatric diagnosis. EOS presented significant memory and executive impairments when compared to controls but there was no significant difference between LOPS and their controls when age and education were taken into account. However, a detailed inspection of normative data suggests more executive impairments in LOPS than in EOS. The clinical judgment of experts was in favour of significant cognitive deficits with or without dementia in most LOPS (82.3%-94.1%) and EOS (80.0%-93.3%) patients. Regarding evolution, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) were the most common clinical diagnoses made by geriatric psychiatry physicians/clinicians for the LOPS (40%). In addition, 20% of LOPS versus 5.9% of EOS patients met the diagnostic criteria for dementia by consensus of the experts. Cerebral abnormalities were confirmed (CT scan; SPECT) in 73.3% of LOPS patients. The present results suggest cognitive deficits (mostly of executive functions) and vascular and neurodegenerative vulnerability in LOPS. Further studies with larger samples are needed to confirm the present findings."}
{"id": "21408191", "title": "Progressive neurodegeneration or endogenous compensation in an animal model of Parkinson's disease produced by decreasing doses of alpha-synuclein.", "content": "Progressive neurodegeneration or endogenous compensation in an animal model of Parkinson's disease produced by decreasing doses of alpha-synuclein. The pathological hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD) are degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) and the presence of alpha-synuclein (\u03b1-syn)-rich Lewy bodies in DA cells that remain. To model these aspects of the disease, we previously showed that high titer (5.1\u00d710exp12 gp/ml) AAV1/2 driven expression of A53T \u03b1-syn in the SN of rats caused nigrostriatal pathology including a loss of DA neurons, but also with toxicity in the GFP control group. In the current study, we evaluate the effects of two lower titers by dilution of the vector (1\u22363 [1.7\u00d710exp12] and 1\u223610 [5.1\u00d710exp11]) to define a concentration that produced pathology specific for \u03b1-syn. In GFP and empty vector groups there were no behavioural or post-mortem changes at 3 or 6 weeks post-administration at either vector dose. Dilution of the AAV1/2 A53T \u03b1-syn (1:3) produced significant paw use asymmetry, reductions in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and increases in DA turnover at 3 weeks in the absence of overt pathology. By 6 weeks greater evidence of pathology was observed and included, reductions in SN DA neurons, striatal DA, TH and DA-transporter, along with a sustained behavioural deficit. In contrast, the 1:10 AAV1/2 A53T \u03b1-syn treated animals showed normalization between 3 and 6 weeks in paw use asymmetry, reductions in striatal TH, and increased DA turnover. Progression of dopaminergic deficits using the 1:3 titer of AAV1/2 A53T\u03b1-syn provides a platform for evaluating treatments directed at preventing and/or reversing synucleinopathy. Use of the 1:10 titer of AAV1/2 A53T \u03b1-syn provides an opportunity to study mechanisms of endogenous compensation. Furthermore, these data highlight the need to characterize the titer of vector being utilized, when using AAV to express pathogenic proteins and model disease process, to avoid producing non-specific effects."}
{"id": "21386128", "title": "[A case presenting with ataxic gait and dementia due to vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency without megaloblastic anemia or subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord].", "content": "[A case presenting with ataxic gait and dementia due to vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency without megaloblastic anemia or subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord]. A 36-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of subacute progressive ataxic gait and dementia. His blood test results vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency due to presence of anti-intrinsic factor antibody and his endoscopic examination findings showed chronic gastritis. Treatment was administered on the bass of on a diagnosis of vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency. Consequently, ataxic gait improved and dementia regressed. \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-IMP cerebral blood flow scintigraphy conducted at 8 months after treatment initiation showed increased blood flow the area around the parietal lobe to the corpus callosum, and flow both temporal lobes to the hippocampus compared. The diagnosis was difficult in this case because the patient did not show the typical symptoms and complications associated with vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency, such as megaloblastic anemia, or subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord. However, the disturbance in cerebral blood flow may be related to the dysfunction of higher brain function caused by vitamin B\u2081\u2082 deficiency."}
{"id": "21376652", "title": "Pure akinesia with low myocardial metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake.", "content": "Pure akinesia with low myocardial metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake. The objective of this study was to delineate the clinical features of patients with pure akinesia and a low heart versus mediastinum ratio below 2.0 in the delayed images of myocardial metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy, a marker for the clinical diagnosis of Lewy body diseases. A total of 13 patients was enrolled. The clinical features of the patients were uniformly elderly (mean age, 73.7 years), a male gender preponderance (10 men and 3 women), relatively mild motor disability (mean Hoehn Yahr grade 2.4) without laterality, festinating gait (77%) and loss of postural reflex (69%), which were the most common; also observed were fair levodopa responses (70%), cognitive dysfunction in some (23%), common autonomic dysfunction (urinary urgency and frequency, 85%; constipation, 77%; and postural hypotension, 38%) and common occipital hypoperfusion (62%). These features may facilitate the clinical differential diagnosis of these patients from patients with pure akinesia due to progressive supranuclear palsy."}
{"id": "21375379", "title": "Subthalamic nucleus stimulation for Parkinson disease with severe medication-induced hallucinations or delusions.", "content": "Subthalamic nucleus stimulation for Parkinson disease with severe medication-induced hallucinations or delusions. Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN DBS) improves cardinal motor symptoms of Parkinson disease (PD) and reduces antiparkinsonian medication. Therefore, STN DBS seems to be well indicated for patients suffering from medication-induced psychotic symptoms. However, there are few available data dealing with the effect of STN DBS in this kind of patient. The authors studied the effect of STN DBS in patients with PD and severe medication-induced hallucinations or delusions. The authors retrospectively reviewed the clinical course of 10 patients who suffered from severe medication-induced hallucinations or delusions and underwent bilateral STN DBS. Patients whose preoperative thought disorder score (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part I, item 2) was 3 or more were enrolled in this study. All patients underwent cognitive function examination and brain perfusion SPECT preoperatively to exclude dementia with Lewy bodies. Subthalamic nucleus DBS yielded significant improvement of motor function in all patients. In 8 patients, psychotic symptoms completely disappeared with significant reduction of dopaminergic medication. In 2 patients, hallucinations and delusions deteriorated immediately after surgery despite complete withdrawal of antiparkinsonian medication. However, these psychotic symptoms completely disappeared after a few months with administration of antipsychotics, and no recurrence was observed afterward in either patient. Subthalamic nucleus DBS is a good treatment option for patients with PD who are suffering severe medication-induced hallucinations or delusion. However, vigilance is needed, because temporary deterioration of psychotic symptoms may occur after surgery."}
{"id": "21371697", "title": "Applications of cerebral SPECT.", "content": "Applications of cerebral SPECT. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can provide three-dimensional functional images of the brain following the injection of one of a series of radiopharmaceuticals that crosses the blood--brain barrier and distributes according to cerebral perfusion, neurotransmitter, or cell density. Applications include differentiating between the dementias, evaluating cerebrovascular disease, preoperative localization of epileptogenic foci, diagnosing movement disorders, and evaluation of intracerebral tumours, while also proving a useful research tool. Unlike positronemission tomography (PET), SPECT imaging is widely available and can be performed in any department that has access to a rotating gamma camera. The purpose of this review is to demonstrate the utility of cerebral SPECT and increase awareness of its role in the investigation of neurological and psychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "21342781", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial accumulation in the diagnosis of Lewy body diseases in a movement disorder clinic.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial accumulation in the diagnosis of Lewy body diseases in a movement disorder clinic."}
{"id": "21325773", "title": "Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and occipital hypoperfusion in a patient with DLB.", "content": "Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and occipital hypoperfusion in a patient with DLB. A 76-year-old woman presented with catatonia, refusal to eat due to delusion, and visual hallucination. Single photon emission computed tomography showed remarkable occipital hypoperfusion and frontal hyperperfusion. (123)I metaiodobenzyl guanidine myocardial scintigraphy revealed decreased uptake. She was diagnosed as probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Intravenous or oral L-dopa had no effect on catatonia. Amitriptyline and lorazepam improved catatonia and visual hallucination. Cerebral blood flow of the frontal and occipital lobes seemed to be normalized. Occipital hypoperfusion is one of the features of DLB. Although the mechanism of perfusion abnormality in DLB remains to be clarified, our case suggested that it might be reversible."}
{"id": "21314662", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementia.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementia."}
{"id": "21310726", "title": "Arterial spin labelling reveals an abnormal cerebral perfusion pattern in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Arterial spin labelling reveals an abnormal cerebral perfusion pattern in Parkinson's disease. There is a need for objective imaging markers of Parkinson's disease status and progression. Positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography studies have suggested patterns of abnormal cerebral perfusion in Parkinson's disease as potential functional biomarkers. This study aimed to identify an arterial spin labelling magnetic resonance-derived perfusion network as an accessible, non-invasive alternative. We used pseudo-continuous arterial spin labelling to measure cerebral grey matter perfusion in 61 subjects with Parkinson's disease with a range of motor and cognitive impairment, including patients with dementia and 29 age- and sex-matched controls. Principal component analysis was used to derive a Parkinson's disease-related perfusion network via logistic regression. Region of interest analysis of absolute perfusion values revealed that the Parkinson's disease pattern was characterized by decreased perfusion in posterior parieto-occipital cortex, precuneus and cuneus, and middle frontal gyri compared with healthy controls. Perfusion was preserved in globus pallidus, putamen, anterior cingulate and post- and pre-central gyri. Both motor and cognitive statuses were significant factors related to network score. A network approach, supported by arterial spin labelling-derived absolute perfusion values may provide a readily accessible neuroimaging method to characterize and track progression of both motor and cognitive status in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "21278615", "title": "Impact of 123I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) SPECT on the diagnosis and management of patients with dementia with Lewy bodies: a retrospective study.", "content": "Impact of 123I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) SPECT on the diagnosis and management of patients with dementia with Lewy bodies: a retrospective study. To assess the impact of imaging the presynaptic dopaminergic terminal using DaTSCAN single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) on the clinical diagnosis and subsequent management of patients with possible dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), who were referred for imaging. A retrospective case note study was undertaken, involving a series of consecutive patients who had undergone DaTSCAN SPECT 12-24 months earlier. Case notes of 80 patients were reviewed. DaTSCAN imaging results were abnormal (indicating DLB) in 20 (25%) and normal (suggesting an alternative diagnosis or absence of disease) in 60 (75%) patients. Of the 20 patients with an abnormal scan, 18 had a postscan working clinical diagnosis of DLB (90%), one had diagnosis of vascular dementia (5%) and another had no recorded outcome (5%). Fifty-eight out of the 60 patients with a normal DaTSCAN image result had an alternative clinical diagnosis of DLB (95%). Consequently, DaTSCAN findings were concordant with the outcome clinical diagnosis in 76 out of the 80 (95%) cases. Subsequent to DaTSCAN SPECT, scan findings and diagnoses were discussed with patients and/or their carers in 94% of cases and subsequent treatment options discussed in 93% of cases. It would seem that DaTSCAN imaging has a marked influence on the working clinical diagnosis and subsequent management of patients with suspected DLB."}
{"id": "21220990", "title": "Assessment of cerebral hemodynamics to acetazolamide using brain perfusion SPECT in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy.", "content": "Assessment of cerebral hemodynamics to acetazolamide using brain perfusion SPECT in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary microangiopathy caused by mutations in the Notch3 gene located on chromosome 19, leading to 4 cardinal features with aura, cerebrovascular ischemic events, mood disturbances, and dementia. Acetazolamide (ACZ) has been promoted as a drug to determine cerebral hemodynamics, including cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) in patients with cerebrovascular disease. In CADASIL patients with small-vessel disease, ACZ may be possible to increase CBF. We present that reduced CBF was dramatically improved after administration of ACZ on Tc-99m ECD brain perfusion SPECT in a CADASIL patient."}
{"id": "21160432", "title": "Is brain SPECT useful in degenerative dementia diagnosis?", "content": "Is brain SPECT useful in degenerative dementia diagnosis? Cerebral blood flow assessment performed by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain is used to detect early neuronal dysfunction associated with degenerative dementia. Patterns of perfusion abnormalities are different across dementia syndromes. These differences could be used for differential diagnoses and early detection of amnesic mild cognitive impairment in patients with a high risk of conversion to Alzheimer disease. This paper aimed to summarize the expected benefits of single-photon emission computed tomography of the brain in the exploration of degenerative dementias."}
{"id": "21150861", "title": "Cardiac sympathetic impairment parallels nigrostriatal degeneration in Probable Dementia with Lewy Bodies.", "content": "Cardiac sympathetic impairment parallels nigrostriatal degeneration in Probable Dementia with Lewy Bodies. Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) must be distinguished from other types of dementia because of important differences in patient management and outcome. Both reduction in cardiac 123I-metaiodobenzilguanidine (MIBG) uptake and decreased 123I-FP-CIT binding in basal ganglia have been described in DLB. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between cardiac sympathetic activity and nigrostriatal degeneration in patients with probable DLB. Twenty-eight patients (15 males; mean age 77 years, range 64-88 years) with clinical international criteria of probable DLB were included in the study. All patients underwent a cardiac MIBG scintigraphy and a FP-CIT SPECT. Global cardiac MIBG uptake was semiquantified by means of heart-to-mediastinum ratio (HMR) (normal >1.56). FP-CIT binding in basal ganglia was calculated and compared with an age-matched control group. The relation between cardiac MIBG uptake and FP-CIT uptake in basal ganglia, and the relationship of these two techniques with distinctive symptoms of DLB, features of past medical history and data from the neuropsychological examination were assessed. Cardiac MIBG uptake was decreased in 23 of 28 patients (HMR=1.32, range 0.95-1.85). The FP-CIT binding in basal ganglia was significantly lower than in control group (2.01\u00b10.5 vs 2.62\u00b10.2, P<0.05). All patients with reduced cardiac HMR showed decreased FP-CIT binding in basal ganglia. There was a positive correlation between the HMR and specific binding ratio of striatum (P<0.01). A high correlation between FP-CIT SPECT and the presence of parkinsonism also was found. No correlation between cardiac MIBG uptake and demographic, clinical or neuropsychological data was found. In probable DLB cardiac MIBG uptake and FP-CIT binding in basal ganglia are reduced. The positive correlation between both measures suggests that cardiac sympathetic degeneration and nigrostriatal degeneration parallel similarly in patients with probable DLB."}
{"id": "21143707", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow changes in patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow changes in patients with idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder. Recent studies have shown an association between rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) and neurodegenerative disorders, especially alpha-synucleinopathies. We investigated regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in patients with idiopathic RBD (iRBD), to determine functional brain alterations associated with the disorder. The SPECT data of 24 patients with iRBD were compared with those of 18 age-matched normal controls using statistical parametric mapping 2. We found decreased rCBF in the parietooccipital lobe (precuneus), limbic lobe, and cerebellar hemispheres in patients with iRBD, which is commonly seen in patients with Lewy body disease (Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies) or multiple system atrophy. Our SPECT study suggests that iRBD can be a presymptomatic stage of alpha-synucleinopathies."}
{"id": "21111419", "title": "Reduced cerebral perfusion in elderly men with silent myocardial ischaemia and nocturnal blood pressure dipping.", "content": "Reduced cerebral perfusion in elderly men with silent myocardial ischaemia and nocturnal blood pressure dipping. Knowledge about the impact of cardiovascular disease on cerebral autoregulation and cognition in aging is sparse. The aim of our study is to examine the association between cerebral blood flow (CBF), silent ST segment depression (STDE) on ambulatory ECG (LTER) and nocturnal blood pressure variations in elderly men. In a cross-sectional cohort study \"Men born in 1914\", eighty 83-year-old men were examined by CBF, LTER and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). The presence and the degree of STDE were analyzed in relation to regional CBF in nocturnal blood pressure dippers/non-dippers. Fourty-five (56%) study subjects had STDE, 25 at both day and night and 20 only daytime. Subjects with STDE expressed lower CBF in left frontal, temporal, inferior parietal regions and bilateral superior parietal regions compared to men without STDE. Low regional CBF was most frequent in subjects with daytime STDE. Subjects with nocturnal diastolic blood pressure dip and STDE (22 subjects; 35%) had lower mean CBF in the parietal lobe and also correlation between STDE and CBF (r=0.31-0.44, p=0.056-0.006) compared to non-dippers with STDE. The lowest CBF in nocturnal dippers was observed in subjects with maximal STDE daytime. Silent myocardial ischemia may contribute to cerebrovascular disease in non-demented elderly men. Cerebral perfusion seems to be most vulnerable to myocardial ischemia in elderly with nocturnal blood pressure dipping."}
{"id": "20965169", "title": "Interaction between \u03b1-synuclein and tau in Parkinson's disease comment on Wills et al.: elevated tauopathy and \u03b1-synuclein pathology in postmortem Parkinson's disease brains with and without dementia. Exp Neurol 2010; 225: 210-218.", "content": "Interaction between \u03b1-synuclein and tau in Parkinson's disease comment on Wills et al.: elevated tauopathy and \u03b1-synuclein pathology in postmortem Parkinson's disease brains with and without dementia. Exp Neurol 2010; 225: 210-218. Recent neurochemical studies in postmortem brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), PD with dementia (PDD) and age-matched controls revealed significant decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) in striatum, confirming previous studies indicating substantial loss of dopaminergic neurons and terminals. Insoluble \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1Syn) was significantly increased in both striata and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), more severe in PDD, probably related to Lewy body (LB) burden discussed as one cause of dementia in PD. Parkin levels frequently related to recessive and young-onset PD were unchanged, suggesting no link to sporadic PD. Novel and most interesting data showed elevated tauopathy in striata of both PD and PDD, associated with increased levels of phosphorylated GSK-3\u03b2 and reduced 20S proteasomal subunits but - despite increased cortical \u03b1Syn - unchanged pTau in IFG, related to increased pGSK-3\u03b2 and decreased 19S proteasome subunits. These data, recently confirmed in PDGF-\u03b1Syn transgenic mice (Haggerty et al., submitted) suggest tauopathy in PD and PDD restricted to the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system and in various animal models of PD show topographic differences from a global tauopathy in Alzheimer's disease (AD) (and other tauopathies). Although some of these data are at variance to current neuropathologic findings in PD and PDD, they confirm frequently discussed correlations/overlaps between AD and PD/PDD and synergistic effects of \u03b1Syn, pTau, \u03b2-amyloid, and other pathologic proteins, suggesting a dualism or triad of neurodegeneration, the basic molecular pathogenesis remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "20946703", "title": "Kana Pick-out Test and brain perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Kana Pick-out Test and brain perfusion imaging in Alzheimer's disease. The Kana Pick-out Test (KPT), which was developed in Japan, is suitable for evaluating frontal lobe function and screening for mild dementia. However, the neural substrates involved remain to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to identify the regional perfusion patterns in the brain associated with performance scores on the KPT in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), using brain perfusion assessed by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Twenty AD patients with high scores on the KPT and 20 age- and sex-matched AD patients with low scores were selected from 227 consecutive Japanese patients of the Memory Clinic of Okayama University Hospital. All 40 subjects underwent brain SPECT with 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer, and the SPECT images were analyzed by Statistical Parametric Mapping. With the exception of KPT scores, no significant differences were found between high and low scoring groups with respect to Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination scores, Mini-mental State Examination scores, or the depression score of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory subscale. Compared to patients with high scores on the KPT, AD patients with low scores on the KPT showed significant hypoperfusion in the left subgenual cingulate gyrus (SGC) extending to the right SGC. Our results suggest that functional activity of the SGC is closely related to scores on the KPT. KPT might be a promising strategy to use in detecting early stages of AD with low SGC function."}
{"id": "20930271", "title": "A novel progranulin mutation causing frontotemporal lobar degeneration with heterogeneous phenotypic expression.", "content": "A novel progranulin mutation causing frontotemporal lobar degeneration with heterogeneous phenotypic expression. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by behavioural disturbances and cognitive decline. Here we describe an Italian family with FTLD showing remarkable phenotypic heterogeneity. Based on low plasma levels of progranulin, we analyzed the progranulin gene (GRN) in two patients with early onset and found the novel frame-shift mutation T278SfsX7. mRNA analysis confirmed the null effect of the mutation. The patients were homozygous for H1 MAPT haplotype, a disease modifier factor that can account for early age at onset. Being predictive for GRN null mutations, plasma progranulin dosage should be included in diagnostic work-up of dementia."}
{"id": "20927562", "title": "Vitamin B12 deficiency associated with symptoms of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Vitamin B12 deficiency associated with symptoms of frontotemporal dementia. We report the case of an elderly patient with cobalamin deficiency who progressively developed cognitive and behavioral symptoms associated with neuropsychiatric disturbances. His neuropsychological profile showed many features suggestive for a frontal-dysexecutive syndrome and was related to a predominant asymmetric (right > left) frontal lobe hypoperfusion. He completely recovered after a treatment with vitamin B12 and follow-up of 7 years showed that his improvement remained stable. Along with the other cases reported in the literature, our case also proves that there are some cases of vitamin B12 deficiency that can manifest with the symptoms of frontotemporal dementia and that they are completely reversible after substitution therapy."}
{"id": "20617407", "title": "Neuroprotective upregulation of endogenous \u03b1-synuclein precedes ubiquitination in cultured dopaminergic neurons.", "content": "Neuroprotective upregulation of endogenous \u03b1-synuclein precedes ubiquitination in cultured dopaminergic neurons. \u03b1-Synuclein is the major protein component of Lewy bodies--the pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Its accumulation into intracellular aggregates is implicated in the process of Lewy body formation. However, its roles in both normal function, and disease, remain controversial. Using a novel model of chronic oxidative stress in cultured dopaminergic and cortical neurons, we report that endogenous \u03b1-synuclein is upregulated in response to low dose toxicity. This response is conserved between subpopulations of cortical and dopaminergic neurons, and confers relative resistance to apoptosis following secondary insult. Additional acute oxidative stress leads to intracellular accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein. These punctate deposits colocalize with ubiquitin, which is central to proteosome-mediated protein degeneration, and is the second major component of Lewy bodies. The current results imply that differential levels of \u03b1-synuclein expression may influence neuronal vulnerability in chronic neurodegenerative diseases. They further support a 'two hit' hypothesis for Lewy body formation, whereby mild stress causes a protective upregulation of \u03b1-synuclein. However, such increased levels of \u03b1-synuclein may drive its accumulation, following additional toxic insult. Finally, these results support a common mechanism for degeneration of dopaminergic and cortical neurons, affected in PD, and DLB, respectively."}
{"id": "19269714", "title": "Alterations in nicotinic \u03b14\u03b22 receptor binding in vascular dementia using \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 SPECT: comparison with regional cerebral blood flow.", "content": "Alterations in nicotinic \u03b14\u03b22 receptor binding in vascular dementia using \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 SPECT: comparison with regional cerebral blood flow. To investigate differences in distribution of \u03b14\u03b22 subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) using the ligand \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5-Iodo-3-[2(S)-2-azetidinylmethoxy] pyridine (5IA-85380) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in subjects with vascular dementia and age-matched controls. \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 binding was compared to corresponding regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes in the same subjects. Thirty subjects (14 vascular dementia and 16 controls) underwent \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 and rCBF ((99m)Tc-exametazime) SPECT scanning. Image analysis was performed on voxel basis using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2). Compared to controls, reductions in relative \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 uptake were identified in dorsal thalamus and right caudate in vascular dementia. Increase in scaled \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 uptake in cuneus was also demonstrated in vascular dementia relative to controls. Perfusion deficits in anterior cingulate were apparent in the patient group and did not appear to be associated with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 changes. Reduced \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 uptake in vascular dementia was confined to sub-cortical regions, unlike the cortical reductions previously described in Alzheimer's disease. Elevation of normalised \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-5IA-85380 uptake in cuneus in vascular dementia could be a compensatory response to reduced cholinergic activity in dorsal thalamus."}
{"id": "21159056", "title": "A case of dementia with Lewy bodies that temporarily showed symptoms similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "A case of dementia with Lewy bodies that temporarily showed symptoms similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We discuss a case of a 67-year-old male with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) that was initially suspected as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) or another type of encephalopathy, because he showed rapidly progressive deterioration, myoclonus, gait disturbance and a decline in activities of daily living. The present study describes a clinically atypical case with probable DLB and reviews similar cases in the literature, and we propose a rapidly progressive clinical subtype of DLB."}
{"id": "21154313", "title": "Neuroimaging diagnosis in neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Neuroimaging diagnosis in neurodegenerative diseases. Dementia affects about 8% of people age 65 years and older. Identification of dementia is particularly difficult in its early phases when family members and physicians often incorrectly attribute the patient's symptoms to normal aging. The most frequently occurring ailments that are connected with neurodegeneration are: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and multiple sclerosis. A variety of powerful techniques that have allowed visualization of organ structure and function with exact detail have been introduced in the last twenty-five years. One such neuroimaging technique is positron emission tomography (PET), which measures in detail the functioning of distinct areas of the human brain and as a result plays a critical role in clinical and research applications. Radiotracer-based functional imaging provides a sensitive means of recognizing and characterizing the regional changes in brain metabolism and receptor binding associated with cognitive disorders. The next functional imaging technique widely used in the diagnosis of cognitive disorders is single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). New radiotracers are being developed and promise to expand further the list of indications for PET. Prospects for developing new tracers for imaging other organ diseases also appear to be very promising. In this review, we present current opportunities of neuroimaging techniques in the diagnosis and differentiation of neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "21150049", "title": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementias.", "content": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementias. Dementias produce deficits in perfusion, in part, reflecting decreased metabolic needs. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies have reported characteristic anterior-to-posterior perfusion gradients that permit distinction between the various forms of dementia. We undertook this study to evaluate the role of visual analysis of SPECT perfusion patterns for the differential diagnosis of types of degenerative dementia. Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer (ECD) was used with a dual-head scanner to generate perfusion images of the brain in 136 patients referred from the dementia clinic. Diagnosis was made by the nuclear physician unaware of clinical diagnosis. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of perfusion studies for Alzheimer's dementia were 93.42%, 95.12%, 97.26%, and 88.63%, respectively, and for frontotemporal dementia were 96.29%, 98%, 96.29%, and 98.88%, respectively. Tc-99m ECD brain perfusion SPECT is useful in the differential diagnosis of dementia with particular reference to AD as well as FTD."}
{"id": "21150043", "title": "The role of single photon emission computed tomography scan in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "The role of single photon emission computed tomography scan in the diagnosis of dementia."}
{"id": "21097140", "title": "Grouping a few sets of normally distributed voxels of SPECT volumes in discrimination between Alzheimer dementia and controls.", "content": "Grouping a few sets of normally distributed voxels of SPECT volumes in discrimination between Alzheimer dementia and controls. It is widely accepted and can be easily verified that any specific voxel in a class of brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) volumes is of a univariate normal distribution. In this research, we conjecture that all the voxels in a class of SPECT volumes are also approximately of a multivariate normal (MVN) distribution from which in terms of the Bayes errors of statistics, an optimal classifier can be designed using quadratic discriminant functions (QDFs). However, the number of training volumes needed for deriving the covariance matrix of an MVN distribution increases quadratically with respect to the number of voxels such that practically the MVN distributions cannot be modeled. To overcome this, we selected a reduced number of voxels and put them into groups based on the P values of two-sided t tests or a greedy algorithm of discrimination between two classes of volumes. We also tried the same approach on the 3D Haar wavelet coefficients which were obtained from the discrete wavelet transform of the voxels. Experiments showed that the accuracies of QDFs, linear discriminant functions (LDFs), and support vector machines (SVMs) were not significantly different in discrimination between Alzheimer's and normal controls verifying that the proposed MVNs effectively model the discrimination information. Moreover, the proposed QDF classifier obtained satisfactory performance."}
{"id": "20972667", "title": "[The relationship between psychiatry and neurology].", "content": "[The relationship between psychiatry and neurology]. Neurology and psychiatry deal with diseases of the (central) nervous system. Historically neurological disorders are related to a proven organic basis, whereas psychiatric disorders are mainly defined by the phenomenology and course of the symptoms. Neuroscientific research methods such as molecular genetics, neurochemistry, neurophysiology, neuropathology, functional (SPECT, PET, fMRI) or structural (MRI) imaging have dramatically increased our knowledge of psychiatric and neurological disorders in the last 20 years. Accordingly diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and the long-term prognosis of numerous diseases in both disciplines have substantially improved (i.e. pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, functional neurosurgery). For major brain disorders - such as dementia of the Alzheimer type - close collaboration between both disciplines is developing in diagnosis, therapy and care. Due to common neurobiological research topics, educational programs, medical training and the challenges of assuring appropriate care to patients with brain disorders, further cooperation between neurology and psychiatry is expected and necessary."}
{"id": "20964987", "title": "[(123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in the diagnosis of Lewy body dementia].", "content": "[(123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in the diagnosis of Lewy body dementia]. Lewy body dementia (LBD) is the second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD). A cardiac post-ganglionic sympathetic denervation has been described in this condition which can be quantified by MIBG (metaiodobenzylguanidine) myocardial scintigraphy. The aim of our work was to retrospectively evaluate cardiac MIBG uptake (expressed as the heart-to-mediastinum ratio at 4h (HMR) in patients with suspected LBD, and to examine its relationship with clinical and para-clinical data. A total of 77 patients with clinical suspicion of LBD evaluated at our centre between September 2005 and June 2008 to whom a MIBG myocardial scintigraphy has been performed were retrospectively reviewed. International Consensus Criteria of LBD were applied to divide the sample into probable LBD, possible LBD and non-LBD. HMR values and their relationships with clinical and neuropsychological data were analysed. A subgroup of patients had FP-CIT (fluoropropyl-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-4-iodophenyltropane) SPECT as a part of the evaluation. Mean HMR values were significantly lower in probable LBD group than in possible LBD and non-LBD groups. Low HMR values were associated only with reduced FP-CIT uptake in the striatum, but not with any clinical or neuropsychological item. Low MIBG myocardial scintigraphy uptake is a robust measure in LBD, and it is not largely affected by medical conditions, or by the stage of the disease. In LBD reduced MIBG myocardial uptake is associated with nigrostriatal degeneration."}
{"id": "20960930", "title": "[A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal lobar degeneration with apraxia of eyelid opening].", "content": "[A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal lobar degeneration with apraxia of eyelid opening]. We report the case of a 76-year-old man with apraxia of eyelid opening (AEO) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALS-D)/frontotemporal lobar degeneration with motor neuron disease (FTLD-MND). The initial symptom was AEO. Neurological examination revealed mainly bulbar symptoms with a neurogenic pattern on needle electromyograms of the tongue muscles and the biceps muscles. Furthermore, he developed severe dementia with frontal lobe dysfunction and progressive non-fluent aphasia. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed severe cerebral atrophy and leukoaraiosis in the bilateral frontal lobes and the anterior part of the bilateral temporal lobes; brain 99mTc ethyl cysteinate dimer single photon emission computed tomography (ECD SPECT) showed hypoperfusion in the same areas. The patient showed improvement in stereotyped behavior and AEO after treatment with 50 mg/day of fluvoxamine maleate (the initial dose was 25 mg/day). Because serotonin receptors are markedly reduced in the frontal and temporal cortexes of patients with FTLD, we considered that dysfunction of the serotonergic system in the frontotemporal lobe caused AEO. Considering the findings of this case along with those of previous reports, we propose that there is a relatively homogeneous development of ALS-D/FTLD-MND with AEO."}
{"id": "20952104", "title": "[Alzheimer's and related diseases: toward earlier and more accurate diagnosis].", "content": "[Alzheimer's and related diseases: toward earlier and more accurate diagnosis]. Because of population ageing, the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia, increases progressively. This condition is now considered as a public health priority. New disease modifying therapeutic strategies could be available in the next few years that would necessitate an accurate and early diagnosis of the disease. Recently developed diagnostic tools are being assessed. Development of structural brain imaging allows to measure the hippocampus volume. Metabolic imaging can assess a broad range of functional parameters such as cerebral blood flow and dopaminergic activity with single photon emission computed tomography, cerebral glucose metabolism and cerebral amyloid burden with positron emission tomography. Those imaging methods are under evaluation to appreciate cerebral abnormalities that may occur earlier than structural ones. Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, in particular amyloid and tau peptides, allow us to look at in vivo biochemical cerebral changes related to AD, before possible serum biomarkers. Studies are under way to confirm the relevance of these new diagnostic tools. It will help us to improve evaluation of patients with AD or related diseases."}
{"id": "20938027", "title": "Phenotypic spectrum of patients with PLA2G6 mutation and PARK14-linked parkinsonism.", "content": "Phenotypic spectrum of patients with PLA2G6 mutation and PARK14-linked parkinsonism. PLA2G6 is the causative gene for infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy, neurodegeneration associated with brain iron accumulation, and Karak syndrome. Based on previous reports, patients with PLA2G6 mutations could show axonal dystrophy, dystonia, dementia, and cerebellar signs. Recently, PLA2G6 was also reported as the causative gene for early-onset PARK14-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. To clarify the role of PLA2G6 mutation in parkinsonism, we conducted mutation analysis in 29 selected patients with very early-onset (\u2264 30, mean 21.2 \u00b1 8.4 years, \u00b1 SD) parkinsonism. These patients had other clinical features (e.g., mental retardation/dementia [14/29], psychosis [15/29], dystonia [11/29], and hyperreflexia [11/29]). Two novel compound heterozygous PLA2G6 mutations were detected (patient A: p.F72L/p.R635Q; patients B1 and B2: p.Q452X/p.R635Q). All 3 patients had early-onset l-dopa-responsive parkinsonism with dementia and frontotemporal lobar atrophy. Disease progression was relatively rapid. SPECT in patient B1 showed frontotemporal lobar hypoperfusion. MRI in patient A showed iron accumulation in the substantia nigra and striatum. Although the clinical presentation of PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration was reported to be homogeneous, our findings suggest patients with PLA2G6 mutation could show heterogeneous phenotype such as dystonia-parkinsonism, dementia, frontotemporal atrophy/hypoperfusion, with or without brain iron accumulation. Based on the clinical heterogeneity, the functional roles of PLA2G6 and the roles of PLA2G6 variants including single heterozygous mutations should be further elucidated in patients with atypical parkinsonism, dementia, or Parkinson disease. PLA2G6 mutations should be considered in patients with early-onset l-dopa-responsive parkinsonism and dementia with frontotemporal lobar atrophy."}
{"id": "20934811", "title": "Pain perception and tolerance in patients with frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Pain perception and tolerance in patients with frontotemporal dementia. Pain management in elderly people with cognitive impairment poses special challenges, due to difficulties in pain assessment and specific neurodegenerative changes along pain pathways. Most studies have concentrated on Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, in whom some contrasting findings have been found. For example, while psychophysical data suggest a selective blunting of the affective dimension of pain, pain-related fMRI signal increases have also been described. Few data have been reported in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). By electrical stimulation, we have measured pain threshold and pain tolerance in clinically diagnosed FTD patients with SPECT cerebral hypoperfusion. We performed our analysis on two separate and overlapping subgroups selected on the basis of (1) neuropsychological scores below cut-off values (2) a strictly localized frontal and/or temporal hypoperfusion. We observed increased pain threshold in the first group and increased pain threshold and pain tolerance in the second group. Our results suggest differences in pain processing changes in distinct types of dementia, while at the same time caution that pain perception assessment may depend on the criteria adopted for diagnosis."}
{"id": "20861634", "title": "A comparison of the diagnostic sensitivity of MRI, CBF-SPECT, FDG-PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for detecting Alzheimer's disease in a memory clinic.", "content": "A comparison of the diagnostic sensitivity of MRI, CBF-SPECT, FDG-PET and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for detecting Alzheimer's disease in a memory clinic. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral blood flow single photon emission computed tomography (CBF-SPECT), fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are used for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We aimed to reveal the relative sensitivity of these tools in a memory clinic setting. In 207 patients with probable AD in our memory clinic, medial temporal lobe atrophy on MRI, hypoperfusion/hypometabolism of the parietotemporal lobe and posterior cingulate gyrus in ethylcysteinate dimer-CBF-SPECT/FDG-PET, and abnormalities of CSF amyloid \u03b2-protein 1-42, total tau and phosphorylated tau were evaluated as findings characteristic of AD. The AD findings were observed in 77.4% of all AD patients with MRI, 81.6% with CBF-SPECT, 93.1% with FDG-PET and 94.0% with CSF biomarkers. At the stage of Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 0.5, CSF biomarkers were the most sensitive (90.0%); at the stage of CDR 1, FDG-PET (96.7%) and CSF biomarkers (95.5%) were highly sensitive. At the stage of CDR 2, all tools showed high positive percentages. The diagnosis of AD was most often supported by CSF biomarkers and FDG-PET at the early stage of dementia (CDR 1) and by CSF biomarkers at the earlier stage (CDR 0.5)."}
{"id": "20856190", "title": "Parkinson's disease dementia: clinical correlates of brain spect perfusion and treatment.", "content": "Parkinson's disease dementia: clinical correlates of brain spect perfusion and treatment. The main clinical feature of dementia in Parkinson's disease is a dysexecutive syndrome. The neuropathology of PD dementia (PDD) is likely multifactorial and affects several neuronal populations. There is evidence that Parkinson's disease dementia is associated with a cholinergic deficit, supporting the therapeutic role of cholinesterase inhibitors, which are already first-line agents in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The paper includes short report on a pilot study with description of cognitive and imaging profiles in patients with mild to moderate stage of Parkinson disease dementia (PDD). A random sample of 16 patients with clinical diagnostic criteria for probable PDD was included in the study. Patients were characterized with mild to moderate cognitive decline slightly depressive mood and moderate motor performance. Brain perfusion [(99m)Tc]ECD / SPECT and structural MRI with emphasis on evaluation of the degree of cortical atrophy and the medial temporal atrophy index was performed. All patients had detailed neuropsychological evaluation using a \"cognitive process approach\". Neuropsychological data were correlated voxel-wise with normalized brain perfusion images, creating whole-brain correlation maps. Previously reported generalized cognitive impairment in PDD with predominant executive, visouspatial and attentional deficits was confirmed. Performance on specific cognitive measures was correlated with perfusion brain SPECT findings. It could be speculated that different pathological mechanisms underlie widespread significant brain perfusion decrements in temporal, parietal and frontal regions."}
{"id": "20846908", "title": "Decreased striatal dopamine transporter uptake and substantia nigra hyperechogenicity as risk markers of synucleinopathy in patients with idiopathic rapid-eye-movement sleep behaviour disorder: a prospective study [corrected].", "content": "Decreased striatal dopamine transporter uptake and substantia nigra hyperechogenicity as risk markers of synucleinopathy in patients with idiopathic rapid-eye-movement sleep behaviour disorder: a prospective study [corrected]. Patients with idiopathic rapid-eye-movement sleep behaviour disorder (IRBD) may develop neurodegenerative conditions associated with substantia nigra dysfunction such as Parkinson's disease. In patients with Parkinson's disease, \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl)-nortropane (\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT) SPECT detects striatal dopamine dysfunction resulting from nigral pathology whereas transcranial sonography (TCS) shows increased substantia nigra echogenic size, even before parkinsonism is clinically evident. We postulated that these neuroimaging changes could occur in a proportion of IRBD individuals who might then be at increased risk for development of a neurodegenerative disorder associated with substantia nigra dysfunction. In our prospective study, we identified patients with IRBD from individuals referred to our sleep disorders centre in Barcelona, Spain. At baseline, we assessed dopamine transporter [corrected] uptake by use of \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT SPECT, and estimated echogenicity of the substantia nigra by use of TCS. After a follow-up of 2\u00b75 years, participants were clinically assessed to establish whether they had developed neurodegenerative syndromes. Data were compared with those of matched healthy controls. 43 individuals with IRBD agreed to participate in the study. We found reduced \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT binding in the striatum (p=0\u00b7045) in 17 (40%) of 43 participants compared with 18 controls, and substantia nigra hyperechogenicity in 14 (36%) of 39 participants with IRBD, compared with 16 (11%) of 149 controls (p=0\u00b70002). Tracer uptake reduction was more pronounced in the putamen than it was in the caudate nucleus. 27 (63%) participants had reduced \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT binding or substantia nigra hyperechogenicity at baseline. Eight (30%) of these participants developed a neurodegenerative disorder (five Parkinson's disease, two dementia with Lewy bodies, and one multiple system atrophy). Individuals with normal neuroimaging results remained disease-free. Sensitivity of combined \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT SPECT and TCS to predict conversion to synucleinopathy after 2\u00b75 years was 100% and specificity was 55%. In patients with IRBD, \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT SPECT and TCS can detect subclinical changes much the same as those typically seen in patients with early Parkinson's disease. Decreased striatal \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT binding and substantia nigra hyperechogenicity might be useful markers to identify individuals at increased risk for development of synucleinopathies. None."}
{"id": "20846893", "title": "Relationship between (123)I-MIBG scintigrams and REM sleep behavior disorder in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Relationship between (123)I-MIBG scintigrams and REM sleep behavior disorder in Parkinson's disease. Uptake of (123)I-labeled meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) in myocardial scintigrams has been shown to be as low in patients with idiopathic RBD as in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. AIM FOR STUDY: To clarify whether the existence of RBD accelerates autonomic dysfunction in PD, we investigated the association between MIBG scintigraphic findings and RBD measures among non-dementia PD patients. We conducted clinical interviews to assess REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) symptoms, and performed polysomnograms (PSG) recordings and MIBG scintigrams on 49 PD patients. The patients were divided into three groups (PD with clinical RBD, PD with subclinical RBD, and PD with normal REM sleep). PD patients with clinical RBD had reduced MIBG uptake as determined by heart-to-mediastinum ratios of the delayed image compared to those with subclinical RBD and those with normal REM sleep. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that only the existence of RBD symptoms was significantly associated with reduced MIBG uptake among PD patients without dementia after adjusting for demographic and PD symptom-related variables. PD patients with clinical RBD might suffer from a wider \u03b1-synuclein pathology, including reduced cardiac sympathetic ganglia function as reflected by a lowered MIBG uptake."}
{"id": "20798538", "title": "Obsessive-compulsive behavior as a symptom of dementia in progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Obsessive-compulsive behavior as a symptom of dementia in progressive supranuclear palsy. To describe obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) as under-recognized behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and to discuss possible mechanisms based on MRI and SPECT findings. We studied 74 PSP patients. OCS are defined as persistent and unreasonable, but non-delusional/hallucinatory, ideas and behaviors. Demography, cognition, the widths of middle cerebellar peduncles (MCP) and the inter-caudate distances (ICD), both corrected by the intracranial size (MCP and ICD ratios), and changes on voxel-based SPECT were compared between the subgroups with and without OCS. Finally, the predicative power of various factors to OCS was investigated. We observed OCS in 18 patients (24%). They were obsessed with daily trifles and physical symptoms among other things. OCS was not associated with demography or cognitive levels. OCS-positive patients had significantly smaller MCP and ICD ratios and showed marked uptake decreases in the orbitofrontal cortex, caudate and thalamus. Relative uptake increases in the cerebellum, specifically the tonsils, were milder in OCS-positive than -negative patients. A smaller right MCP, a smaller ICD ratio and lower uptake increases in the right cerebellar were the significant predictors of OCS. OCS are frequent but under-recognized behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia in PSP. Dysfunction of the fronto-caudate-thalamus-cerebellum circuit may be involved."}
{"id": "20694486", "title": "Confirmation rate of blinded (99m)Tc-SPECT compared to neurochemical dementia biomarkers in CSF in patients with Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Confirmation rate of blinded (99m)Tc-SPECT compared to neurochemical dementia biomarkers in CSF in patients with Alzheimer disease. In Alzheimer disease, CSF biomarkers and nuclear imaging are of particular interest. Many studies investigated only one technique, limiting comparison. Here, in 76 patients blinded 99mTc-SPECT was compared to CSF. Sensitivity of CSF was 92%; and 51% for SPECT. Specificity favored SPECT (90 vs. 80%). Both techniques showed no coherence (p = 0.17-0.47). Our results confirm that CSF biomarkers show higher sensitivity. SPECT has higher specificity and can also be used for other dementias without established CSF biomarkers."}
{"id": "20692493", "title": "Transcranial sonography in relation to SPECT and MIBG.", "content": "Transcranial sonography in relation to SPECT and MIBG. Neuroimaging techniques have substantially progressed over the past several years. These developments have provided new information about the degenerative processes involved in Parkinson's disease (PD). Functional imaging approaches such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) have been successfully employed to detect dopaminergic dysfunction in PD, even in preclinical stages. Myocardial scintigraphy with (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine ((123)I-MIBG) has been used to assess cardiac sympathetic function, and recent studies have revealed that the cardiac uptake of MIBG is significantly reduced in patients with PD and Lewy body dementia. In addition, substantia nigra (SN) hyperechogenicity, detected with transcranial sonography (TCS), might provide a marker of susceptibility to PD. We briefly review data regarding the clinical significance of these functional imaging studies in the diagnosis of PD, and discuss the diagnostic potential of the combining TCS of the SN with other functional imaging tools."}
{"id": "20685363", "title": "Neuroimaging for Lewy body disease: is the in vivo molecular imaging of \u03b1-synuclein neuropathology required and feasible?", "content": "Neuroimaging for Lewy body disease: is the in vivo molecular imaging of \u03b1-synuclein neuropathology required and feasible? Alpha-synuclein aggregation is a neuropathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD), Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), collectively termed the \u03b1-synucleinopathies. Substantial advances in clinical criteria and neuroimaging technology over the last 20 years have allowed great strides in the detection and differential diagnosis of these disorders. Nevertheless, it is clear that whilst the array of different imaging modalities in clinical use allow for a robust diagnosis of \u03b1-synucleinopathy in comparison to healthy subjects, there is no clear diagnostic imaging marker that affords a reliable differential diagnosis between the different forms of Lewy body disease (LBD) or that could facilitate tracking of disease progression. This has led to a call for a biomarker based on the pathological hallmarks of these diseases, namely \u03b1-synuclein-positive Lewy bodies (LBs). This potentially may be advantageous in terms of early disease detection, but may also be leveraged into a potential marker of disease progression. We here aim to firstly review the current status of neuroimaging biomarkers in PD and related synucleinopathies. Secondly, we outline the rationale behind \u03b1-synuclein imaging as a potential novel biomarker as well as the potential benefits and limitations of this approach. Thirdly, we attempt to illustrate the likely technical hurdles to be overcome to permit successful in vivo imaging of \u03b1-synuclein pathology in the diseased brain. Our overriding aim is to provide a framework for discussion of how to address this major unmet clinical need."}
{"id": "20681265", "title": "[A case of Lissauer form of paretic neurosyphilis with drop attacks and dementia].", "content": "[A case of Lissauer form of paretic neurosyphilis with drop attacks and dementia]. A 52-year-old man was admitted to our hospital due to drop attack accompanied with progressive right hand's clumsiness and recent memory impairment. Neurological examination revealed postural involuntary movement of the right hand, and impaired finger fine movements. He showed mild mental deterioration with lower MMSE score. Toreponema Pallidum Latex immuno Assay (TPLA) titers in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were remarkably elevated. MRI revealed cerebral atrophy in the left hemisphere. The 99mTc-ECD SPECT analysis showed reduced cerebral blood flow in the left hemisphere. EEG showed slow background activity in the left hemisphere. Drop attacks and involuntary movement were diminished by the administration of the valproate. We diagnosed this case as Lissauer's general paresis and treated with intravenous benzylpenicillin potassium 24 million units per day for 2 weeks. After this treatment, the titer of TPLA in the serum and CSF decreased. The clinical symptoms and signs, the score of MMSE, findings of SPECT and EEG also improved. Although Lissauer's general paresis is a rare form of neurosyphilis, it is important to distinguish this disease in case of progressive dementia and focal neurological signs. Early diagnosis and treatment are the only way to prevent irreversible neurological damage in this disease."}
{"id": "20675879", "title": "[Neuroimaging for patients with Alzheimer disease in routine practice].", "content": "[Neuroimaging for patients with Alzheimer disease in routine practice]. In routine practice neuroimaging has been applied as an adjunct technique for early and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer disease in routine practice. Of the several neuroimaging modalities, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have been commonly used in Japan; further software programs are used to aid statistical analysis of the imaging results. For example voxel-based specific regional analysis system for Alzheimer disease (VSRAD) for MRI and easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS) are used for the analysis of MRI and SPECT. In the early stage of Alzheimer disease, specific findings of regional atrophy and perfusion reduction are observed in some areas. In the posterior cingulate gyrus precuneus and parietal cortex, perfusion reduction was more frequently observed than atrophy. On the other hand, in the medial temporal structures, perfusion reduction was less frequently observed than atrophy. Perfusion reduction in the the posterior cingulate gyrus precuneus and in the parietal cortex was more prominent in the case of patients with early-onset Alzheimer disease than in the case of patients with late-onset Alzheimer disease. Further, atrophy in the medial temporal structures was more prominent in the case of patients with late-onset Alzheimer disease than in the case of those with early-onset Alzheimer disease. These findings are helpful for differentiating of Alzheimer disease from other diseases characterized by dementia."}
{"id": "20670380", "title": "Neuroimaging in the clinical diagnosis of dementia: observations from a memory disorders clinic.", "content": "Neuroimaging in the clinical diagnosis of dementia: observations from a memory disorders clinic. To determine how often neuroimaging confirms, clarifies, or contradicts initial diagnoses of late-life cognitive disorders. Retrospective case review. Outpatient clinic specializing in memory disorders. One hundred ninety-three consecutively referred cognitively impaired patients. Diagnoses using research criteria were developed for each patient at the first visit and ranged from cognitive impairment without dementia to dementias of single, complex, or indeterminate etiology. Structural (noncontrast magnetic resonance imaging) and perfusion (technetium-99m ethyl cysteine dimer single photon emission computed tomography) images were categorized together as normal, suggestive of specific diseases, or abnormal/not diagnostic. When a single neurodegenerative disease was suspected clinically (n=94), imaging confirmed the diagnosis in 50, contradicted the diagnosis in 32, and was abnormal/not diagnostic in 12. When more than one neurodegenerative etiology was clinically suspected (n=21), imaging assigned a single diagnosis in 13 and only cerebrovascular disease in one and was abnormal/not diagnostic in seven. In dementia not otherwise specified (NOS) (n=33), imaging suggested a specific etiology in 23 and was abnormal/not diagnostic in 10. Abnormal/not diagnostic images were more common in cognitive disorder NOS (n=25, 68%) than in other clinical groups (22%, chi-square=22.8 P<.001). Neuroimaging indicators of cerebrovascular disease were common (60% prevalence) but not predicted by the presence of vascular risk factors alone. Overall, neuroimaging confirmed, clarified, or contradicted the initial clinical diagnosis in more than 80% of patients, whereas fewer than 20% had abnormal/not diagnostic patterns. Imaging suggested a complex dementia etiology in 21% of cases clinically thought to be caused by a single process, whereas 46% of complex clinical differential diagnoses appeared to reflect a single causal pattern. Further work is needed to determine whether refinement of clinical diagnoses using specialized neuroimaging improves clinical decision-making and patient outcomes."}
{"id": "20669272", "title": "Midbrain SERT in degenerative parkinsonisms: a 123I-FP-CIT SPECT study.", "content": "Midbrain SERT in degenerative parkinsonisms: a 123I-FP-CIT SPECT study. SPECT imaging is widely used for the differential diagnosis of degenerative parkinsonisms by exploiting the high affinitiy of the radiotracer (123)I-FP-CIT for the dopamine transporter. Reduced levels of DAT are found in Parkinson Disease (PD), Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) compared to in Essential Tremor (ET) and Healthy Controls (HC). However, the extent of the neurodegenerative process may extend beyond nigrostriatal system. We have exploited the affinity of the same radiotracer (123)I-FP-CIT for the serotonin transporter to investigate SERT levels in the midbrain of patients with PD, DLB, PSP, and ET compared to HC. Using MRI images as anatomical templates for midbrain uptake quantification, we found a mild decrease in SERT levels in PD compared to ET and HC, with marked inter-individual variability; on the other side, PSP and DLB patients displayed markedly reduced to undetectable levels of SERT, respectively. These findings show that the neurodegenerative process affects serotoninergic neurons in parkinsonisms, with much more severe involvement in DLB than in PD patients, despite the comparable loss of striatal DAT. SERT-dependent (123)I-FP-CIT uptake may allow a more comprehensive assessment of neurochemical disturbances in degenerative parkinsonisms and may have a value for differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "20616568", "title": "Importance of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy/single photon emission computed tomography for diagnosis and differential diagnostics of Parkinson syndromes.", "content": "Importance of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy/single photon emission computed tomography for diagnosis and differential diagnostics of Parkinson syndromes. The goal of Parkinson syndrome diagnostics is twofold: early diagnosis on the one hand, and accurate differentiation among idiopathic and atypical Parkinson syndromes on the other. (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy is the only method that can distinguish with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity between atypical Parkinson syndromes and Parkinson's disease or dementia with Lewy bodies. Additional advantages are the method's widespread availability and radioactive exposure dose comparable to that for single photon emission computed tomography imaging with much lower costs. Only a single radiotracer study is necessary. (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy is an indispensable tool for purposes of differentiating among the various Parkinson syndromes."}
{"id": "20602729", "title": "Frontal hypoperfusion in depressed patients with dementia of Alzheimer type demonstrated on 3DSRT.", "content": "Frontal hypoperfusion in depressed patients with dementia of Alzheimer type demonstrated on 3DSRT. Depressive symptoms are common in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) and contribute to clinical morbidity. Previous studies have suggested that hypoperfusion in the prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus are involved in the pathophysiology of depression in DAT. Using 3-D stereotactic region of interest (ROI) template (3DSRT), fully automated ROI analysis software, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the relationship between depressive symptoms and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in DAT. Technetium-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer ((99m)Tc-ECD) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and Japanese version of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) were carried out in 35 patients diagnosed as having mild-moderate DAT according to DSM-IV. These patients were divided into the depressive group (D group: n = 17) and non-depressive group (ND group: n = 18) using the NPI depression items. All data from SPECT images were analyzed using 3DSRT software. On 3DSRT the perfusion ratios (rCBF of bilateral callosomarginal, precentral, central, parietal, angular, temporal, posterior cerebral, pericallosal, lenticular nucleus, thalamus and hippocampus/cerebellar hemisphere) of each segment were compared between the D group and the ND group. The perfusion ratios of the left callosomarginal segment for the D group were significantly lower (P < 0.05) than those of the ND group. Hypoperfusion in the left frontal cortex contributes to the expression of depressive symptoms in patients with DAT."}
{"id": "20562756", "title": "Relationship between comorbidity and violence risk assessment in forensic psychiatry - the implication of neuroimaging studies.", "content": "Relationship between comorbidity and violence risk assessment in forensic psychiatry - the implication of neuroimaging studies. Violence is an important social problem. Violence in the community has important social relevance for the political, criminal justice, and health care systems. Studies of homicide offenders have suggested a high prevalence of neurologic dysfunction due to organic brain damage such as traumatic brain injury, epilepsy and dementia have been observed to exhibit excessive violence. Moreover, violence in the mentally ill can be viewed as an important medical and mental health problem with significant implications for forensic psychiatry and the community. Although numerous previous studies showed that rate of violent behavior in the community is not much higher in patients with serious mental disorders (schizophrenia) than in healthy controls, that rate is substantially higher in patients with psychiatric comorbidity and substance abuse. A high proportion of patients in forensic psychiatric facilities are diagnosed with comorbidity, most often with schizophrenia, paranoid psychosis, organic brain syndrome, various personality disorders and comorbid substance abuse. These patients represent a high risk group for violence within forensic psychiatric facilities, and repetitive violent behavior in the community. Understanding the neurobiological basis of aggressive behavior clearly has important social and clinical implications. By introduction of neuroimaging studies (MRI, fMRI, PET, SPECT) as a useful tool in forensic psychiatry, the neurobiological aspect of violence is better understood. Previous studies have shown that individuals with frontotemporal brain dysfunction are frequently displaying antisocial behavior (disinhibition, impulsivity, lack of empathy) that justify the diagnosis of \"acquired sociopathy/psychopathy\". A correlation between the potential for impulsive aggression mediated by limbic brain structures, and the control of the aggression by frontotemporal brain regions has been shown. The individuals with such brain dysfunction have an increased risk of violent behavior and scored high on the Webster's and Hare's violence risk assessment scale. This article reviews the relationship between psychiatric comorbidity, violence risk assessment and neuroimaging in forensic psychiatry and showing the useful directions for future research, screening and prevention of violent behavior among mentally ill criminal offenders."}
{"id": "20562743", "title": "Social behaviour vs. psychiatric features of frontotemporal dementia - Clinical report of two cases.", "content": "Social behaviour vs. psychiatric features of frontotemporal dementia - Clinical report of two cases. Behavioural disturbances are prominent in frontotemporal dementia (FTD), a focal, non-Alzheimer type of dementia. Although most patients with FTD present with socially inappropriate behaviour, compulsive-like acts, poor insight and disinhibition, the presence of psychiatric features including delusions, hallucinations, and paranoia can lead to a misclassification of FTD as psychiatric disorder. In the absence of cognitive deficits non-experts fail to recognize these social changes as dementia symptoms. We report two individuals who met current clinical criteria for behavioural or frontal variant FTD (bv-FTD), with the aim of distinguishing between psychotic symptoms and the often bizarre personality and behaviour change found in FTD. Also we review the literature on the noncognitive neuropsyhiatric manifestation of this disorder. Clinical findings presented, and a literature review, indicate that psychotic symptoms are rare in FTD. Better awareness of behavioural symptoms in clinical practice is necessary in order to avoid misdiagnosis of FTD as psychiatric disorder."}
{"id": "20555149", "title": "Brain SPECT findings of anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain SPECT findings of anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease. Anosognosia is a common symptom of dementia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of different regions of the brain to anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Forty-two patients with AD were included in this study. After clinical interviews with the patients and their relatives, the patients were divided into two groups: Anosognosia and No-anosognosia. The patients were studied regarding the severity of dementia. They underwent SPECT with HMPAO and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured. Regional CBF significantly differed between Anosognosia and No-anosognosia groups in right prefrontal (P < or = 0.02), right inferior parietal (P < or = 0.00), and right (P < or = 0.01) and left (P < or = 0.01) medial temporal cortex. There was a significant correlation between the severity of dementia and rCBF in medial temporal regions. When comparisons were made between mild and moderate stages separately, the 'right inferior parietal region' was the common region which showed hypoperfusion in both anosognosia subgroups. We conclude that anosognosia may be a reflection of functional impairment in right prefrontal, right frontal and especially right inferior parietal regions in AD."}
{"id": "20555146", "title": "Brain perfusion correlates of visuoperceptual deficits in mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain perfusion correlates of visuoperceptual deficits in mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheimer's disease. Visuoperceptual processing is impaired early in the clinical course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The 15-Objects Test (15-OT) detects such subtle performance deficits in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild AD. Reduced brain perfusion in the temporal, parietal, and prefrontal regions have been found in early AD and MCI patients. The objectives of this study were to confirm the role of the 15-OT in the diagnosis of MCI and AD and to investigate the brain perfusion correlates of visuoperceptual dysfunction (15-OT) in subjects with MCI, AD, and normal aging. Forty-two AD, 42 MCI, and 42 healthy elderly control subjects underwent a brain Single Photon Emission Tomography (SPECT) and separately completed the 15-OT. An analysis of variance compared 15-OT scores between groups. SPM5 was used to analyse the SPECT data. 15-OT performance was impaired in the MCI and AD patients. In terms of the SPECT scans, AD patients showed reduced perfusion in temporal-parietal regions, while the MCI subjects had decreased perfusion in the middle and posterior cingulate. When MCI and AD groups were compared, a significant brain perfusion reduction was found in temporo-parietal regions. In the whole sample, 15-OT performance was significantly correlated with the clinical dementia rating scores, and with the perfusion in the bilateral posterior cingulate and the right temporal pole, with no significant correlation in each separate group. Our findings suggest that the 15-OT performance provides a useful gradation of impairment from normal aging to AD, and it seems to be related to perfusion in the bilateral posterior cingulate and the right temporal pole."}
{"id": "20548139", "title": "Hypermetabolism in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Hypermetabolism in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. Detection of hyperperfusion by I-123 N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography can be helpful to diagnose dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). This study characterized hypermetabolism in DLB. A total of 22 probable cases of DLB were examined by F-18 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography. Hypermetabolism was found in the peri-motor area, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. Eleven patients had hypermetabolism in all 3 areas, 6 in 2 areas, 4 in 1 area, and 1 in no area. Hypermetabolism was most frequent in the cerebellum. Comparison of the 11 patients with hypermetabolism in all 3 areas to the other 11 cases found no significant differences in age (P = 0.2555), sex (P = 0.1889), Mini-Mental State Examination score (P = 0.0897), and Parkinsonism. However, visual hallucinations were significantly more frequent in the patients with hypermetabolism in all 3 areas (P = 0.0018). Hypermetabolism is common in patients with DLB and may be related to visual hallucinations."}
{"id": "20548124", "title": "[Language and semantic memory impairment in a patient with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia: a case report].", "content": "[Language and semantic memory impairment in a patient with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia: a case report]. We report the rare case of a 59-year-old man with motor neuron disease and semantic dementia (SD-MND); SD-MND was in a very early stage, and its clinical progression, especially with regard to language impairment, and abnormalities on neuroimages were evaluated for 3 years. The patient complained only of difficulties in recalling names of acquaintances and in writing kanji characters. After 1 year, he experienced difficulty in describing common objects. He developed two-way anomia only in some words, which varied from day to day. His anomia was not category-specific and was noted even with respect to words that describe color. In addition to experiencing difficulty in writing kanji characters, he experienced difficulty in writing kana characters. Muscle atrophy was observed, and he experienced weakness in his limbs, especially in the right upper limb; however, bulbar symptoms were not observed. At this point, he fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for MND. In the next year, semantic memory impairment became apparent, and he was subsequently diagnosed with SD. Deterioration in his ability to name objects in all categories, except body parts, was noted. Further, the ability of writing both kana and kanji characters was increasingly impaired. He developed bulbar symptoms and experienced increased muscle weakness. The characteristics of this patient differed from those of SD patients without MND with regard to the difficulty in writing kana characters and naming colors even though the SD-MND was in the early stage. Further, the pattern of brain hypoperfusion was different from that observed for SD patients without MND. In the case of this patient, brain hypoperfusion was found not only in the left anterior temporal lobe but also in the frontal lobe. The characteristics of his language symptoms might be related to the specific pattern of brain hypoperfusion, which might be commonly observed in patients with dementia and MND."}
{"id": "20525466", "title": "[Lewy body dementia].", "content": "[Lewy body dementia]. Newer estimations indicate a considerable increase in the number of elderly people with dementia and Lewy body dementia (DLB) in Denmark. Simultaneously, the prescription of antipsychotics to elderly patients remains very high in Denmark. This report reflects on the importance of keeping DLB in mind when physicians encounter elderly demented patients with visual hallucinations, fluctuations and parkinsonism, as 50% of patients with DLB have severe sensitivity to antipsychotics. With new clinical criteria including SPECT of dopaminergic transporters, diagnosis has become sufficiently accurate to differentiate between the two diagnoses."}
{"id": "20488678", "title": "Early-onset Alzheimer disease: the contribution of neuroimaging for the diagnosis.", "content": "Early-onset Alzheimer disease: the contribution of neuroimaging for the diagnosis. The diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) at an early age of onset may be a challenging task. The diagnosis of such a type of dementia may be even more difficult when concomitant depressive symptoms occur. We report the case of a 51-year-old woman who was admitted at a Psychiatric Day Hospital presenting with depressive symptoms, visuospatial deficits, apraxia, and minor memory loss. The patient underwent long-term antidepressant therapy, but despite the improvement of depressive symptoms, there was progressive cognitive deterioration. Otherwise, the prior clinical history was unremarkable, and there was no family history of dementia. The clinical examination revealed cognitive deficits in several domains. The patient scored 12 in the Mini-Mental State Examination. Routine laboratory tests were normal. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed global brain volume loss more pronounced than would be expected for someone of the patient's age, especially in the precuneus-a pattern of posterior cortical atrophy consistent with the diagnosis of early-onset AD. Images obtained with 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) also revealed marked brain hypoperfusion involving the left parietal lobe, far beyond the regions of brain volume loss. This clinical case report illustrates the relative contribution of both MR imaging and SPECT for the diagnosis of dementia in a patient with concomitant depressive symptoms. Apart from contributing to the diagnosis of dementia beyond the traditional exclusionary approach, neuroimaging is increasingly being used to classify its particular subtypes. The role of neuroimaging role in AD is also supported by a recent proposal of revised diagnostic criteria, which take into account abnormal biomarkers of disease."}
{"id": "20472978", "title": "[Prediction of the development of Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment].", "content": "[Prediction of the development of Alzheimer disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment]. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered to refer to a transitional zone between normal cognitive function and dementia. It comprises a heterogenous condition with a variety of clinical outcomes. The purpose of this study was to determine whether combined analysis of brain imaging studies, including MRI and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) , and assessment of awareness of memory deficits is useful in predicting Alzheimer disease (AD) in subjects with MCI. Thirty-nine patients with amnestic MCI [21 patients who had developed AD (MCI/AD) and 18 patients who did not develop AD (MCI/MCI) during a 2.5 to 3-year follow-up] and 19 patients with early AD were included in the study. The entorhinal cortex z-score in each patient was calculated using voxel-based morphometry with 3D T1-weighted MRI (software: VSRAD) . SPECT data were analyzed by the three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection method and posterior cortical hypoperfusion was qualitatively assessed. Awareness of memory deficits was evaluated with a standardized memory questionnaire system based on the Everyday Memory Checklist (EMC) . The discrepancy between these scores (caregiver rating-patient rating) was analyzed. The MCI/AD group showed a tendency toward higher z-scores in the entorhinal cortex on MRI scan, a significantly higher frequency of posterior hypoperfusion on SPECT scan, and significantly more impaired awareness of memory deficits than in the MCI/MCI group. These findings were more severe and more frequent in the AD group than in the MCI/AD and MCI/MCI groups. A combined study of MRI, SPECT, and awareness of memory deficits yielded a higher level of discrimination between MCI/AD and MCI/MCI group results than in each separate study. A combined study of brain imagings (MRI and SPECT) and an assessment of awareness of memory deficits may improve the prediction of the development of AD in subjects with amnestic MCI."}
{"id": "20448431", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis associated with amyloid angiopathy: case report.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis associated with amyloid angiopathy: case report. A 78-year-old female presented with coexisting primary angiitis of the central nervous system (CNS) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) manifesting as motor aphasia caused by a left frontal lobe lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an enhanced lesion with moderate surrounding edema.Technetium-99m propylene amine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography showed decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the lesions, and high serum soluble-interleukin-2 level was detected, suggesting intravascular lymphoma of the CNS. Cerebral biopsy revealed CAA with secondary florid vasculitic appearance. The CBF and neurological symptoms, such as aphasia and dementia, recovered following steroid treatment. Cerebral vasculitis associated with CAA should be included in the differential diagnosis of an unusually enhanced lesion, because timely diagnosis and aggressive treatment are critical to successful recovery in such elderly patients."}
{"id": "20440289", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia presenting as pathological gambling.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia presenting as pathological gambling. A 69 year-old woman presented to an interdisciplinary medical group with pathological gambling, and went on to develop disinhibition, loss of empathy, and perseverative, stereotyped and ritualistic behavior. An initial neuropsychological evaluation showed selective impairment on the Iowa Gambling Task similar to that of patients with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, despite normal performance on standard neuropsychological tasks. MRI scans showed frontal lobe atrophy, which was consistent with findings on hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single photon emission CT (HMPAO-SPECT). Physical examination, neuropsychiatric and neuropsychological assessments, MRI brain scan, HMPAO-SPECT. Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. Pharmacological treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine for impulsive behavior and carbamazepine to stabilize mood. The patient and her family also received counseling to advise on behavioral and legal issues."}
{"id": "20434638", "title": "[A comment on dementia following bipolar disorder].", "content": "[A comment on dementia following bipolar disorder]."}
{"id": "20413829", "title": "Computer-aided diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using support vector machines and classification trees.", "content": "Computer-aided diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using support vector machines and classification trees. This paper presents a computer-aided diagnosis technique for improving the accuracy of early diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia. The proposed methodology is based on the selection of voxels which present Welch's t-test between both classes, normal and Alzheimer images, greater than a given threshold. The mean and standard deviation of intensity values are calculated for selected voxels. They are chosen as feature vectors for two different classifiers: support vector machines with linear kernel and classification trees. The proposed methodology reaches greater than 95% accuracy in the classification task."}
{"id": "20408259", "title": "Reduced cerebral blood flow in older men with higher levels of blood pressure.", "content": "Reduced cerebral blood flow in older men with higher levels of blood pressure. To examine relations of blood pressure (BP) with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)-derived estimates of cerebral blood flow in older men and women. Seventy-four stroke and dementia-free, community-dwelling older adults (ages 54-83 years; 68% men; 91% white) free of major medical, neurological, or psychiatric disease, engaged in clinical assessment of resting SBP and DBP, MRI rated for brain atrophy, and brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies with computerized coding of cortical and select subcortical regions of interest. Given significant interactions of BP and sex with respect to multiple SPECT outcomes, sex-stratified multiple regression models were computed. Models were adjusted for age, fasting glucose levels, antihypertensive medication, BMI, and MRI ratings of brain atrophy. In men (n = 50), higher levels of SBP and/or DBP were associated significantly with lower estimates of cerebral perfusion in the right and left frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortex, thalamus, head of caudate, and cingulate cortex accounting for up to 28% of the variance in these measures (P < 0.05). In women (n = 24), higher DBP was related marginally to higher levels of perfusion in the right temporal cortex (P = 0.05). Higher resting SBP or DBP was associated with lower levels of cerebral perfusion in otherwise healthy older men, but not women, in the present sample. Reduced cerebral blood flow may play a pathogenic role in increasing risk for stroke, dementia, and/or cognitive decline, particularly among older men with high BP."}
{"id": "20369650", "title": "Hyperbaric oxygen ameliorates delayed neuropsychiatric syndrome of carbon monoxide poisoning.", "content": "Hyperbaric oxygen ameliorates delayed neuropsychiatric syndrome of carbon monoxide poisoning. Delayed neuropsychiatric syndrome (DNS) is characterized by mental impairment, motor dysfunction, dementia, or psychosis that develops between a few days and weeks after acute carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning. One possible mechanism responsible for CO-mediated encephalopathy involves oxidative stress, such as lipid peroxidation, caused by the cellular uptake of CO and which leads to an inflammatory cascade. There is no current effective treatment for DNS. We applied 8-40 sessions of hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO2) to patients with DNS and evaluated its effectiveness. After admission, all patients were administered piracetam or bromocriptine, or both, and received HBO2. Neuropsychiatric tests included EEG, mini-mental status examination (MMSE), brain MRI, event-related potential (ERP), and brain perfusion scan (brain SPECT). Results of these tests were compared before and after HBO2, and the clinical features were monitored during this period. The symptoms of DNS for all patients improved significantly after HBOT. Although white matter changes remained evident in the brain MRI scans, other examinations such as EEG, MMSE, ERP, and 99mTc-ECD brain SPECT were nearly normal after HBOT. Our results suggest that HBO2 decreases the severity of impairment in patients with DNS. Although a large randomized trial is required to address the efficacy of this therapy, therapeutic application of HBO2 may be recommended in patients with DNS after CO poisoning."}
{"id": "20360166", "title": "Survival in progressive supranuclear palsy and frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Survival in progressive supranuclear palsy and frontotemporal dementia. To compare survival and to identify prognostic predictors for progressive supranuclear palsy and frontotemporal dementia. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are related disorders. Homozygosity for H1 haplotype is associated with PSP, whereas several MAPT mutations have been identified in FTLD-tau. Survival duration probably reflects underlying pathophysiology or disease. Patients with PSP and FTD were recruited by nationwide referral. Survival of 354 FTD patients was compared with that of 197 PSP patients. Cox regression analysis was performed to identify prognostic predictors. FTLD-tau was defined as Pick disease and FTDP-17 with MAPT mutations. Semiquantitative evaluation of tau-positive pathology was performed on all pathologically proven cases. The median survival of PSP patients (8.0 years; 95% CI 7.3 to 8.7) was significantly shorter than that of FTD patients (9.9 years; 95% CI 9.2 to 10.6). Corrected for demographic differences, PSP patients were still significantly more at risk of dying than FTD patients. In PSP, male gender, older onset-age and higher PSP Rating Scale score were identified as independent predictors for shorter survival, whereas in FTD a positive family history and an older onset-age were associated with a poor prognosis. The difference in hazard rate was even more pronounced when comparing pathologically proven cases of PSP with FTLD-tau. Survival of PSP patients is shorter than that of FTD patients, and probably reflects a more aggressive disease process in PSP. Independent predictors of shorter survival in PSP were male gender, older onset-age and higher PSP rating scale score, whereas in FTD a positive family history and higher onset-age were predictors for worse prognosis."}
{"id": "20356854", "title": "PINK1-linked parkinsonism is associated with Lewy body pathology.", "content": "PINK1-linked parkinsonism is associated with Lewy body pathology. Phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene mutations have been associated with autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease. To date, no neuropathological reports have been published from patients with Parkinson's disease with both phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene copies mutated. We analysed the coding region of phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 gene in a large Spanish family with six members with parkinsonism. The phenotype was characterized by an early-onset (mean: 31.6, standard deviation: 9.6 years, range: 14-45 years), slowly progressive levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, initial gait impairment and psychiatric symptoms. We identified two segregating pathogenic phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutations that were either in homozygous or heterozygous compound state in all affected family members. We found an exon 7 deletion (g.16089_16383del293; c.1252_1488del) and a novel+1U1-dependent 5' splice-site mutation in exon 7 (g.16378G>A; c.1488+1G>A). Leukocyte-derived messenger RNA analysis showed that both mutations caused exon 7 skipping and c.1488+1G>A also lead to an in-frame transcript with a 33 base-pair deletion (p.L485_R497del) resulting from activation of a 5' cryptic exon 7 splice site. Single photon emission computed tomography quantification of striatal dopamine transporter binding (123I-Ioflupane) revealed a posterior-anterior gradient similar to that of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, but there was no correlation between striatal reduced uptake and disease duration. Post-mortem neuropathological examination of an early-onset Parkinson's disease carrier of two heterozygous compound phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutations showed neuronal loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta, Lewy bodies and aberrant neurites in the reticular nuclei of the brainstem, substantia nigra pars compacta and Meynert nucleus, but the locus ceruleus and the amygdala were spared. This is the first neuropathological report of the brain from an early-onset phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1-linked parkinsonism showing that mutated phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 protein induces Lewy body pathology. Unbalanced preservation of the locus ceruleus may well play a role in the slow evolution of motor symptoms and, probably, in the psychiatric symptoms often encountered in Parkinson's disease associated with phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced putative kinase 1 mutation."}
{"id": "20351351", "title": "Imaging approaches to Parkinson disease.", "content": "Imaging approaches to Parkinson disease. Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with nigral degeneration and striatal dopamine deficiency. Demonstrating midbrain structural abnormalities with transcranial sonography or diffusion-weighted MRI or showing striatal dopamine terminal dysfunction with PET or SPECT supports the diagnosis and rationalizes the use of dopaminergic medications. In atypical PD variants, transcranial sonography can detect striatal hyperechogenicity, and diffusion-weighted imaging can detect increased putamen water diffusion, whereas (18)F-FDG PET reveals reduced lentiform nucleus glucose metabolism. PET and SPECT can detect changes in striatal dopamine levels after levodopa administration and relate these to motor responses. Loss of cortical dopaminergic and cholinergic function is present in demented PD and, on occasion, amyloid deposits can be detected. Loss of cardiac sympathetic innervation can be sensitively detected in PD with (18)F-dopamine PET or (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine SPECT. Finally, PET can detect widespread brain inflammation in PD. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for diagnosing and managing different parkinsonian syndromes."}
{"id": "20229798", "title": "[NeuroAIDS].", "content": "[NeuroAIDS]. The incidence of neurological complications including AIDS dementia(NeuroAIDS) in patients with HIV infection has been dramatically decreased since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). However, the incidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, optimistic infections with drug resistance, drug induced peripheral neuropathy, and cerebrovascular disorders has been increased. According to the studies in Western countries, neural injury continues in some patients regardless of the success of HAART and milder cognitive and motor disorder (MCMD) is developed even after introduction of HAART. Moreover longer duration of infection and older age at seroconversion are at increased risk of the cognitive disorders in HIV. Our study reveals the reduction of cerebral blood flow by SPECT in HIV patients without neurological symptoms. Therefore HIV patients should be closely monitored for NeuroAIDS under collaboration with neurologists, immunologists and clinical psychologists. In this article, we review the recent advance of NeuroAIDS research including neuropathological study of macaque AIDS dementia model."}
{"id": "20215096", "title": "[What use of biological markers for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and associated disorders?].", "content": "[What use of biological markers for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and associated disorders?]. Etiological diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia requires combined clinical, neuropsychological, biological and neuro-imaging clues. The diagnostic value of biological and neuro-imaging biomarkers has recently increased according to neuropathological studies. Biomarkers help for making the in vivo diagnosis of underlying histological lesions, sometimes of combined lesions. Sensitivity and specificity of CSF biomarkers, i.e. tau, phospho-tau and amyloid, is now over 85% for Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis at the dementia and MCI stages. Brain MRI can suggest mild AD when depicting medial temporal lobe atrophy. DAT-SCAN(R) is indicated in cases suspected to have Lewy body dementia when parkinsonism is lacking. Metabolism and blood flow impairments observed by PET and SPECT in posterior cortical areas, in particular in posterior cingulate and parieto-temporo-occipital junction, are highly suggestive of AD in atypical cases. International research is currently focalised on research of possible serum biomarkers and neuro-imaging techniques using tracers targeting the specific AD lesions."}
{"id": "20198593", "title": "[Transient topographical amnesia: a description of a series of eight cases].", "content": "[Transient topographical amnesia: a description of a series of eight cases]. Impaired memory, and more particularly spatial orientation, occurs in pathologies such as dementia, cerebrovascular accidents or traumatic brain injuries. Less frequently it also appears as a transient disorder in healthy people with no apparent brain damage, in which case it is known as transient topographical amnesia (TTA). The aim of this work is to report on a series of eight cases of TTA that were evaluated in a neurology unit. We study the cases of eight patients diagnosed with TTA over the period 2002-2008. Patients were considered to fulfil eligibility criteria if they had presented at least one episode of spatial disorientation, with no loss of memory or consciousness, and were able to describe the events that had taken place, without any previous cognitive impairment and with a normal neurological examination. The demographic characteristics taken into account in the study were: predominance of females (75%) and a mean age of 69.13 +/- 8.79 years. The mean number of episodes was 1.75 (range: 1-3), which lasted an average of 24.5 minutes. Three of the eight patients had associated vascular risk factors. Neuroimaging studies did not reveal any relevant findings in any of the eight patients, except one case of a bilateral frontal porencephalic area resulting from a traumatic brain injury suffered in the past. Simple single-photon emission tomography and Doppler ultrasound imaging scans of the brain, as well as an electroencephalogram, were performed on two patients, the results being normal in all cases. Follow-ups were performed on all the patients, without any kind clinical change being observed, except for one patient who developed dementia at six years after the episode of amnesia. TTA is possibly an underdiagnosed condition which we believe should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who are referred owing to suspected cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "20196488", "title": "[Bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with isolated agraphia].", "content": "[Bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with isolated agraphia]. We reported the two cases with bulbar-onset ALS showing isolated agraphia without overt dementia and aphasia. Patient 1 was a 69-year-old man and patient 2 was an 81-year-old woman, and both were right-handed. Each patient developed dysarthria as an initial symptom followed by dysphagia, and neurological examinations showed atrophy and fasciculation of the tongue with upper and lower motor-neuron involvement of the extremities. These characteristic features with electromyographic evidence including widespread acute and chronic denervation led to a diagnosis of bulbar-onset ALS. Around 1 year after the onset of ALS, dysarthria was mild enough to allow oral communication enabling the determination that aphasia was absent with well preserved confrontation naming, repetition, reading and comprehension. The patients were polite without abnormal behavior or character change, and their general intelligence was also well preserved with excellent scores on the Mini Mental State Examination (30 and 27 points for patients 1 and 2, respectively) and Frontal Assessment Battery (16 points for each patient). However, spontaneous writing and dictation revealed abundant writing errors characterized by omission of kana letters and paragraphia of kana and kanji letters in both patients. Some syntactic errors were also observed in writing but in spoken language. A letter-number effect on writing errors was observed in patient 1. Copying of letters or words was intact and structure and orientation of written letters was well preserved, indicating the absence of constructional, apraxic or spatial feature of agraphia. Single photon emission computed tomography demonstrated reduced uptake in the bilateral frontotemporal lobes, predominantly in the left hemisphere, with less evident alternation in magnetic resonance imaging. Our results suggest that patients with bulbar-onset ALS may develop isolated agraphia as a single-domain cognitive impairment, preceding the clinical manifestation of aphasia or dementia. We speculate that the main responsible region might be the posterior part of the middle and inferior frontal gyri including Exner's writing center and Broca's area beyond the primary motor cortex."}
{"id": "20177696", "title": "Progressive anterior operculum syndrome due to FTLD-TDP: a clinico-pathological investigation.", "content": "Progressive anterior operculum syndrome due to FTLD-TDP: a clinico-pathological investigation. Pathological investigation of progressive anterior operculum syndrome has rarely been reported. We describe clinico-pathological findings in a patient with progressive anterior operculum syndrome. A 74-year-old right-handed man had noticed speech and swallowing difficulties 1 year previously. Neurological examinations showed no abnormality other than a slight limitation of upward gaze and slow tongue movement without fibrillation. We investigated the patient using neuroimaging and neuropsychological examinations and observed him for 2 years until his death, at which point we obtained pathological findings. The patient's facial and masseteric muscles seemed hypotonic with drooling, but he could laugh and yawn normally, showing automatic voluntary dissociation. Palatal and pharyngeal reflexes were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging showed cortical atrophy in the temporal lobes bilaterally. (123)IMP single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography showed decreased blood flow and activity in the frontotemporal lobes, predominantly on the left side. Neuropsychological examinations showed no aphasia, dementia or other neuropsychological abnormality. Intubation fiberscopy, laryngoscopy and video fluorography showed no abnormality. After 6 months his anarthria and dysphagia became aggravated. He died of aspiration pneumonia 2 years after onset. Postmortem examination revealed neuronal degeneration with TDP-43-positive inclusions in the frontal, temporal and insular cortices, consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP inclusions (FTLD-TDP). However, neuronal loss with gliosis was more prominent in the inferior part of the motor cortices, bilaterally. Progressive anterior operculum syndrome could be classified as a variant of FTLD-TDP."}
{"id": "20160457", "title": "Analysis of APL1beta28, a surrogate marker for Alzheimer Abeta42, indicates altered precision of gamma-cleavage in the brains of Alzheimer disease patients.", "content": "Analysis of APL1beta28, a surrogate marker for Alzheimer Abeta42, indicates altered precision of gamma-cleavage in the brains of Alzheimer disease patients. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. Currently, therapeutic intervention after the disease onset is difficult because progressive neuronal death precedes clinical symptoms. Available medicines for AD, such as AchE inhibitors, transiently slow the progression of the dementia symptoms, but they do not inhibit the pathological process. At present, next generation anti-AD drugs are in development in many pharmaceutical companies. Importantly, most of them are to inhibit the progress of the pathological process and, thus, at the same time, the establishment of a highly probable prediction of future AD onset is inseparable. AD is now diagnosed using clinical criteria coupled with brain imaging systems such as SPECT and PET. To diagnose AD cases before the appearance of clinical symptoms, it will be necessary to (a) establish new, more sensitive clinical criteria, (b) develop methods for detecting the pathological accumulation of proteins (e.g. Abeta) in the brain, or (c) develop biomarkers for predicting the accumulation of Abeta/tau in the brain. Our recent discovery of APL1beta28, a possible biomarker of AD, may help in the development of early detection methods for AD."}
{"id": "20146690", "title": "Lewy body pathology in fetal grafts.", "content": "Lewy body pathology in fetal grafts. Although fetal nigral transplants have been shown to survive grafting into the striatum, increased [(18)F]6-fluroro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ((18)F-DOPA) uptake and improved motor function in open-label assessments have failed to establish any clinical benefits in double-blind, sham-controlled studies. To understand morphological and neurochemical alterations of grafted neurons, we performed postmortem analyses on six Parkinson's disease (PD) patients who had received fetal tissue transplantation 18-19 months, 4 years, and 14 years previously. These studies revealed robust neuronal survival with normal dopaminergic phenotypes in 18-month-old grafts and decreased dopamine transporter and increased cytoplasmic alpha-synuclein in 4-year-old grafts. We also found a decline of both dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase and the formation of Lewy body-like inclusions in 14-year-old grafts, which stained positive for alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin proteins. These pathological changes suggest that PD is an ongoing process that affects grafted cells in the striatum in a manner similar to how resident dopamine neurons are affected in the substantia nigra."}
{"id": "20145921", "title": "SPECT neuroimaging and neuropsychological functions in different stages of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "SPECT neuroimaging and neuropsychological functions in different stages of Parkinson's disease. The present study investigated differences and associations between cortical perfusion, nigrostriatal dopamine pathway and neuropsychological functions in different stages of Parkinson's disease (PD). We recruited 53 non-demented PD patients divided into four groups according to the Hoehn and Yahr (HY) staging system and 20 healthy controls who were used in the comparison of the neuropsychological findings. Each patient underwent two separate brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies (perfusion and dopamine transporter binding) as well as neuropsychological evaluation. Perfusion images of each patient were quantified and compared with a normative database provided by the NeuroGam software manufacturers. Mean values obtained from the cortical areas and neuropsychological measures in the different groups were also compared by analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) controlling for disease duration and educational level. We found cognitive deficits especially in the late PD stages (HY 3, 4 and 5) compared to the early stages (HY 1 and 2) and associations between cognitive decrements and cortical perfusion deterioration mainly in the frontal and posterior cortical areas. Compared with controls, PD patients showed impairments of cognition and cerebral perfusion that increased with clinical severity. Furthermore, we found a significant correlation between the performance on the phonemic fluency task and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the left frontal lobe. Dopamine transporter binding in the left caudate nucleus significantly correlated with blood flow in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), but not with measures of executive functions. There are significant cognitive and perfusion deficits associated with PD progression, implying a multifactorial neurodegeneration process apart from dopamine depletion in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc)."}
{"id": "20122075", "title": "Accuracy of fluoropropyl-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4- iodophenyl) nortropane datscan for the diagnosis of lewy body dementia.", "content": "Accuracy of fluoropropyl-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4- iodophenyl) nortropane datscan for the diagnosis of lewy body dementia."}
{"id": "20120350", "title": "[A woman with cerebellar ataxia and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism].", "content": "[A woman with cerebellar ataxia and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism]. A 26-year-old woman with primary amenorrhea in association with hypergonadotropinism, and lacking a vagina and uterus, suffered from a gradually progressive gait disturbance in her adolescence. The patient has no family history of ataxia and a chromosome study showed a normal karyotype (46,XX). Using the revised Hasegawa Dementia Scale, her cognitive function was measured as that of a normal adult, however, neurological examination revealed symptoms of scanning speech, horizontal gaze-evoked nystagmus, and ataxia. Bulging eyes, high-arched palate, scoliosis and ventricular septal defect were also observed. A brain MRI showed atrophy of the cerebellum. A 123I-IMP brain SPECT study showed hypoperfusion in the cerebellum. Previous studies show that among patients with cerebellar ataxia and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, some show an autosomal recessive inheritance, while others have no family history. As a cause, a chromosomal abnormality is unlikely because all reported karyotypes were normal. This case is different from other reported cases in that she is not mentally impaired or deaf. The present case indicates that there is a close relationship between cerebellar ataxia and hypogonadism, and that other symptoms such as deafness and mental impairment could be an additional variable in patients with cerebellar ataxia arid hypergonadotropic hypogonadism."}
{"id": "20094022", "title": "Nicotinic 123I-5IA-85380 single photon emission computed tomography as a predictor of cognitive progression in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Nicotinic 123I-5IA-85380 single photon emission computed tomography as a predictor of cognitive progression in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. To investigate normalized I-5-Iodo-3-[2(S)-2-azetidinylmethoxy] pyridine (5IA-85380) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, a marker for the alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor, as a predictor of cognitive progression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Thirty-one patients with dementia (16 patients with AD and 15 patients with DLB) underwent I-5IA-85380 SPECT scanning. Image analysis was performed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM2), which involved spatial preprocessing of scans to standard Montreal Neurological Institute space and intensity normalization of each image to its mean global brain activity. Regression analysis revealed that reduced normalized I-5IA-85380 uptake in left superior, middle, and inferior frontal gyri and prepost central and anterior cingulate regions significantly correlated with decline in executive function in a pooled group comprising AD and DLB. The findings, although preliminary, suggest that the cholinergic system may be more involved in neurodegenerative processes affecting some cognitive processes more than others, as such, this procedure may be useful for increased understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "20084455", "title": "Cynomorium songaricum extracts functionally modulate transporters of gamma-aminobutyric acid and monoamine.", "content": "Cynomorium songaricum extracts functionally modulate transporters of gamma-aminobutyric acid and monoamine. Cynomorium songaricum Rupr. (SY) is a central nervous system-oriented herb material that has actions of anti-dementia, anti-epilepsy, and anti-stress. It is unclear whether SY would be biologically active in functionally regulating neurotransmitter transporters. Here, we assessed these potential actions using Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter (GAT-1), dopamine transporter (DAT), norepinephrine transporter (NET), or serotonin transporter (SERT) (i.e. G1, D8, N1, or S6 cells, respectively). It was shown that SY extracts, such as SYw, SYa, SYp, SYc, SYe, and SYb (SY water, ethanol, petroleum ether, chloroform, ethyl acetate, and n-butyl alcohol extract, respectively) increased dopamine/norepinephrine (DA/NE) uptake by corresponding D8/N1 cells and decreased gamma-aminobutyric acid/serotoin (GABA/5HT) uptake by corresponding G1/S6 cells; wherein, the potency or efficacy of SYc for up-regulating DA/NE uptake and that of SYb for inhibiting GABA/5HT uptake were relatively stronger. Additionally, GABA/5H-uptake inhibition by SY extracts were also seen in cortical synaptosomes, and DA/NE-uptake enhancement by SYc was dependent on the activity of DAT and NET. Thus, SY extracts especially SYc and SYb are novel neurotransmitter-transporter modulators functioning as DAT/NET activators and/or GAT-1/SERT inhibitors."}
{"id": "20077476", "title": "Differentiating vascular parkinsonism from idiopathic Parkinson's disease: a systematic review.", "content": "Differentiating vascular parkinsonism from idiopathic Parkinson's disease: a systematic review. Vascular parkinsonism (VP) remains a loose constellation of various clinical features. We systematically reviewed studies comparing clinical, neuroimaging and other investigations that might distinguish VP from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Medline, Embase, Cinahl (R), and PsycINFO were searched by querying appropriate key words. Reports were included if the study population contained comparative findings between patients with VP and PD. Twenty-five articles fulfilled the selection criteria. Patients with VP were older, with a shorter duration of illness, presented with symmetrical gait difficulties, were less responsive to levodopa, and were more prone to postural instability, falls, and dementia. Pyramidal signs, pseudobulbar palsy, and incontinence were more common in VP. Tremor was not a main feature of VP. Structural neuroimaging was more likely to be abnormal in VP (90-100% of cases) than in PD (12-43% of cases), but there was no specific abnormal structural imaging pattern for VP. Two studies of presynaptic striatal dopamine transporters (using single photon emission computed tomography) showed a significant reduction in striatal uptake ratios in PD but not in VP, whereas another study found that only the mean asymmetry index was significantly lower in VP. Various other investigations, including alternative imaging techniques, electrophysiological, and neuropsychological studies, are reported, but the diverse diagnostic criteria used makes it difficult to reach any firm conclusions. The development of accepted international diagnostic criteria for VP is urgently needed to facilitate further studies."}
{"id": "20075101", "title": "Differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy Bodies and Alzheimer Disease using combined MR imaging and brain perfusion single-photon emission tomography.", "content": "Differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy Bodies and Alzheimer Disease using combined MR imaging and brain perfusion single-photon emission tomography. Diagnostic performance by MR imaging or by SPECT alone in discriminating DLB patients from AD patients has been estimated previously. However, the performance of a combination of MR imaging and SPECT has not yet been evaluated. Our aim was to evaluate the usefulness of combining MR imaging and SPECT to discriminate mild DLB from AD. Nineteen patients with mild DLB and 19 age- and cognitive decline-matched patients with mild AD underwent both SPECT and MR imaging. Hippocampal, occipital, and striatal volume and SPECT count ratios were compared. Linear discriminant and ROC analyses were performed by using the parameters of striatal volume and the occipital SPECT ratio. The striatal volume ratio in the DLB group was significantly lower than that in the AD group. The occipital SPECT ratio in the DLB group was lower than that in the AD group. The mean area under the ROC curve from combined MR imaging and SPECT (AUC = 0.898) was higher than that from MR imaging (AUC = 0.679) or SPECT (AUC = 0.798) alone. By combining MR imaging and SPECT, we were able to distinguish patients with mild DLB from those with AD with a high level of accuracy. Our findings suggest that combining MR imaging and SPECT modalities is a useful and practical approach for diagnostically differentiating DLB from AD."}
{"id": "20068307", "title": "Wisconsin card sorting test and brain perfusion imaging in early dementia.", "content": "Wisconsin card sorting test and brain perfusion imaging in early dementia. The presence of frontal or executive deficits in patients even at early stages of dementia is now widely recognized. We investigated the relationship between the scores of the Wisconsin card sorting test (WCST) and brain perfusion in patients with early dementia. A total of 77 subjects participated in this study. They underwent the WCST and brain single photon emission computed tomography with 99mTc-ethylcisteinate dimer. We analyzed the data using a regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) quantification software program, 3DSRT. The number of categories achieved (CA) scores of the WCST had a weakly positive correlation with regional cerebral blood flow in the bilateral precentral, bilateral callosomarginal, bilateral pericallosal, right thalamus, left central and left parietal segments. The number of perseverative errors of the Nelson type (PEN) scores had a weakly negative correlation with rCBF in the right thalamus. The results in this study suggest that CA scores mainly reflect the function of the precentral segments, especially the left side, and that PEN scores correlate with rCBF in the right thalamus. The results suggest that CA scores and PEN scores should be differentially estimated in the WCST."}
{"id": "20066394", "title": "[Use of PET and SPECT in psychiatry].", "content": "[Use of PET and SPECT in psychiatry]. This review presents the basic essentials of the application of nuclear medicine technology in psychiatry, i.e., positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). These include integral principles of physics and radiochemistry as well as of data acquisition and analysis. Significant findings from applications in research and the clinical setting (schizophrenic and affective disorders, substance abuse, dementia) illustrate the huge potential of these methods. They have helped to deepen the understanding of the neurobiology of those disorders and the mechanism of action of psychotropic drugs. Due to its unmatched sensitivity, molecular imaging with PET and SPECT represents an important complement to magnetic resonance imaging technology in research and clinical practice."}
{"id": "20061645", "title": "Positron emission tomography in at risk patients and in the progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in at risk patients and in the progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered a transitional state between the cognitive changes of normal aging and the earliest clinical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). An important goal is to find features that predict which MCI patients will later convert to AD. Identification of such features will be increasingly important when treatments slowing down the progression of AD become available enabling early intervention. Brain imaging might be one possible predictor of conversion to AD. Functional imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) has shown that either normal elderly people carrying apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele or people with MCI already show reduced cerebral glucose metabolism in those brain areas that are typically affected in AD. Investigations of different neurotransmitter systems might increase specificity and help in the differential diagnosis between dementing disorders. Dopamine transporter imaging to aid in the differential diagnosis between AD and dementia with Lewy bodies seems promising. Amyloid imaging is an example of \"pathology specific\" imaging that has great potential to enhance early detection of AD processes and to help in differential diagnosis. In the future, multi-tracer imaging or development of agents enabling imaging of other protein aggregations in neurodegenerative diseases could further help in the early and differential diagnostics and evaluation of novel treatments."}
{"id": "20058228", "title": "Cognitive-nigrostriatal relationships in de novo, drug-na\u00efve Parkinson's disease patients: a [I-123]FP-CIT SPECT study.", "content": "Cognitive-nigrostriatal relationships in de novo, drug-na\u00efve Parkinson's disease patients: a [I-123]FP-CIT SPECT study. To unveil cognitive-nigrostriatal correlations in Parkinson's disease (PD), 30 de novo, drug-na\u00efve PD patients and 15 patients with essential tremor (Controls, CTR) underwent a neuropsychological (NPS) battery and brain SPECT with [I-123]Ioflupane, as a biomarker of nigrostriatal function. Automatic extraction of uptake at caudate and putamen level was conducted through the BasGan software, also allowing partial volume effect correction. Because of the multicollinearity among neuropsychological tests and among SPECT variables, factor analysis was applied to 16 neuropsychological scores; moreover, the four SPECT variables were merged into a mean SPECT value (mSPECT). Factor analysis identified four NPS factors: a dys-executive (NPS-EX), a visuospatial (NPS-VS), a verbal memory (NPS-VM), and a \"mixed\" (NPD-MIX) factor. In PD group, there were inverse correlations between UPDRS-III score and both NPS-VS (P < 0.01) and mSPECT (P < 0.05), and a direct correlation between mSPECT and NPS-EX (P < 0.05). Post hoc analysis showed a direct correlation between NPS-EX and caudate uptake in both hemispheres (P < 0.05). Moreover, inverse correlations were found between UPDRS-III and, respectively, putamen uptake in the less affected hemisphere (P < 0.01), and putamen and caudate uptake in the more affected hemisphere (P < 0.05). In CTR, no correlation was found between mSPECT and either NPS or GDS values. Nigro-caudate function affects executive capabilities in PD but not in CTR, which appears to be unrelated to the disease motor severity at its onset. Instead, PD motor severity is related to nigro-putaminal impairment and visuospatial dysfunction. The role of these data as predictive features of cognitive decline and eventually dementia remains to be established in longitudinal studies."}
{"id": "20050899", "title": "The FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating scale is a reliable tool for defining disease severity in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: evidence from a brain SPECT study.", "content": "The FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating scale is a reliable tool for defining disease severity in frontotemporal lobar degeneration: evidence from a brain SPECT study. Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by impairment in executive functions, behavioural disturbance and language deficit. Reliable scales of global impairment are under evaluation. A consortium of Mayo Clinic and University of California FTLD Centers has recently developed the FTLD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale to assess FTLD severity. To evaluate whether FTLD-modified CDR scores correlate with the pattern and degree of brain SPECT hypoperfusion in patients with FTLD. Ninety-nine patients with FTLD entered the study. Patients underwent a clinical evaluation and a wide standardized neuropsychological assessment, including mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and FTLD-modified CDR. A brain SPECT perfusion imaging study was carried out in each patient. A linear correlation analysis between frontotemporal dementia-modified CDR or neuropsychological tests scores and perfusion data was performed. There was a significant relationship between higher FTLD-modified CDR score and lower global regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal and temporal lobes, bilaterally. No significant correlation between MMSE and brain frontotemporal hypoperfusion was found. The correlation between brain hypoperfusion pattern and neuropsychological test scores tapping different cognitive domains fitted with previously published data. The recently introduced FTLD-modified CDR scale correlates with the degree of frontotemporal hypoperfusion in patients with FTLD. This study confirms and further supports the usefulness of FTLD-modified CDR in future clinical trials to monitor disease progression."}
{"id": "20049829", "title": "Quinoline-n-butylcyanoacrylate-based nanoparticles for brain targeting for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quinoline-n-butylcyanoacrylate-based nanoparticles for brain targeting for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. A survey of research activity on nanoparticles (NPs) based on polymeric devices that could cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is given along with the presentation of our own data on the development of NPs of n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (BCA) for brain delivery to aid the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder of the elderly people, the most prevalent form of dementia. Typical data are presented on in vivo detection of amyloid peptides (A beta) (amyloid plaques) that are used as targets for developing the biological markers for the diagnosis of AD. In order to develop efficient in vivo probes, polymeric n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (PBCA) NPs have been prepared and encapsulated with the radio-labeled amyloid affinity drug (125)I-clioquinol (CQ, 5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxyquinoline) to improve the transport to brain and amyloid plaque retention of (125)I-CQ using the NPs of PBCA. The (125)I-CQ discriminately binds to the AD post-mortem brain tissue homogenates versus control. (125)I-CQ-PBCA NPs labeled the A beta plaques from the AD human post-mortem frontal cortical sections on paraffin-fixed slides. Storage phosphor imaging verified preferential uptake by AD brain sections compared to cortical control sections. The (125)I-CQ-PBCA NPs crossed the BBB in wild type mouse, giving an increased brain uptake measured in terms of % ID/g i.e., injected dose compared to (125)I-CQ. Brain retention of (125)I-CQ-PBCA NPs was significantly increased in the AD transgenic mice (APP/PS1) and in mice injected with aggregated A beta 42 peptide versus age-matched wild type controls. The results of this study are verified by in vivo storage phosphor imaging and validated by histopathological staining of plaques and select metal ions, viz. Fe(2+) and Cu(2+). The (125)I-CQ-PBCA NPs had more efficient brain entry and rapid clearance in normal mice and enhanced the retention in AD mouse brain demonstrating the ideal in vivo imaging characteristics. The (125)I-CQ-PBCA NPs exhibited specificity for A beta plaques both in vitro and in vivo. This combination offered radio-iodinated CQ-PBCA NPs as the promising delivery vehicle for in vivo single photon emission tomography (SPECT) ((123)I) or PET ((124)I) amyloid imaging agent. The importance of the topic in relation to brain delivery and other similar type of work published in this area are covered to highlight the importance of this research to medical disciplines."}
{"id": "20045161", "title": "[Atypical Lewy body disease revealed by burning mouth syndrome and a pseudo-psychiatric syndrome].", "content": "[Atypical Lewy body disease revealed by burning mouth syndrome and a pseudo-psychiatric syndrome]. Among the degenerative diseases of the nervous system, Lewy body disease has the most psychiatric symptoms especially hallucinations, delusion and identification disorders. We report a case of Lewy body disease that started with a burning mouth syndrome for three year as the only symptom before the development of a pseudo-psychiatric syndrome (melancholy and Capgras). None of the usual cardinal criteria were present. MRI, cerebrospinal fluid, and DAT scan findings enabled the diagnosis. The dopaminergic hypothesis put forward in some cases of burning mouth syndrome might explain this symptom in Lewy body disease."}
{"id": "20029055", "title": "Covariance 99mTc-exametazime SPECT patterns in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies: utility in differential diagnosis.", "content": "Covariance 99mTc-exametazime SPECT patterns in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies: utility in differential diagnosis. (99m)Tc-exametazime single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans of 36 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 30 with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) underwent region of interest (ROI) and principal component analysis (PCA). Principal component analysis was performed on the entire ROI data set. Principal components (PCs) were obtained, representing common intercorrelated regions in AD and DLB. Topographic expression that signified the extent to which a participant expressed the topographic covariance pattern was derived and used as a discriminatory variable. Principal components were identified, accounting for 77% of total data variance. Significant (PC x group) interaction was observed (P < .001). Topographic expression was significantly higher in DLB than AD (F(1,64) = 21.6, P < .001), and differentiated DLB from AD with sensitivity 73% specificity 72%. Calculating the topographic expression in an independent data set of 48 patients with AD and 23 with DLB gave sensitivity = 70%, specificity = 67%. Principal component analysis captures additional sources of variance and if perfusion SPECT is the only scan available, this procedure may offer extra information."}
{"id": "20019219", "title": "The role of DAT-SPECT in movement disorders.", "content": "The role of DAT-SPECT in movement disorders. Dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging is a sensitive method to detect presynaptic dopamine neuronal dysfunction, which is a hallmark of neurodegenerative parkinsonism. DAT imaging can therefore assist the differentiation between conditions with and without presynaptic dopaminergic deficit. Diagnosis of Parkinson disease or tremor disorders can be achieved with high degrees of accuracy in cases with full expression of classical clinical features; however, diagnosis can be difficult, since there is a substantial clinical overlap especially in monosymptomatic tremor (dystonic tremor, essential tremor, Parkinson tremor). The use of DAT-SPECT can prove or excludes with high sensitivity nigrostriatal dysfunction in those cases and facilitates early and accurate diagnosis. Furthermore, a normal DAT-SPECT is helpful in supporting a diagnosis of drug-induced-, psychogenic- and vascular parkinsonism by excluding underlying true nigrostriatal dysfunction. This review addresses the value of DAT-SPECT and its impact on diagnostic accuracy in movement disorders presenting with tremor and/or parkinsonism."}
{"id": "20003584", "title": "Longitudinal patterns of semantic and episodic memory in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Longitudinal patterns of semantic and episodic memory in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease. The longitudinal assessment of episodic and semantic memory was obtained from 236 patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 128) and with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD, n = 108), including patients with a social comportment/dysexecutive (SOC/EXEC) disorder, progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), semantic dementia (SemD), and corticobasal syndrome (CBS). At the initial assessment, AD patients obtained a lower score on the delayed free recall test than other patients. Longitudinal analyses for delayed free recall found converging performance, with all patients reaching the same level of impairment as AD patients. On the initial evaluation for delayed recognition, AD patients also obtained lower scores than other groups. Longitudinal analyses for delayed recognition test performance found that AD patients consistently produced lower scores than other groups and no convergence between AD and other dementia groups was seen. For semantic memory, there were no initial between-group differences. However, longitudinal analyses for semantic memory revealed group differences over illness duration, with worse performance for SemD versus AD, PNFA, SOC/EXEC, and CBS patients. These data suggest the presence of specific longitudinal patterns of impairment for episodic and semantic memory in AD and FTLD patients suggesting that all forms of dementia do not necessarily converge into a single phenotype."}
{"id": "19965851", "title": "Olfactory testing combined with dopamine transporter imaging as a method to detect prodromal Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Olfactory testing combined with dopamine transporter imaging as a method to detect prodromal Parkinson's disease. Objective Olfactory dysfunction is an early and common symptom in Parkinson disease (PD). Previously, the authors demonstrated that idiopathic olfactory dysfunction in first-degree relatives of PD patients is associated with an increased risk of developing PD within 2 years. The aim of the present study was to determine the value of combined olfactory testing and SPECT scanning in predicting future PD in the same population of relatives over a 5-year period. Methods In a cohort of 361 non-parkinsonian, non-demented first-degree relatives of PD patients, a combination of olfactory processing tasks was used to select groups of hyposmic (n=40) and normosmic (n=38) individuals for a 5-year clinical follow-up evaluation and sequential SPECT scanning, using a dopamine transporter ligand to assess nigrostriatal dopaminergic function at baseline and 5 years from baseline. A validated questionnaire, sensitive to the presence of parkinsonism, was used in the follow-up of the remaining 283 relatives. Results Five years from baseline, five out of the 40 hyposmic relatives fulfilled clinical diagnostic criteria for PD. None of the other 349 relatives available for follow-up developed PD. All hyposmic individuals developing PD had an abnormal baseline SPECT scan. Discussion In conclusion, idiopathic hyposmia in first-degree relatives of PD patients is associated with an increased risk of developing clinical PD of 12.5% over a 5-year period. The present data suggest that a two-step approach using olfactory testing followed by SPECT scanning in hyposmic individuals has a very high sensitivity and specificity in detecting PD. The usefulness of this two-step approach needs to be confirmed in larger populations."}
{"id": "19940270", "title": "Prediction of pathology in primary progressive language and speech disorders.", "content": "Prediction of pathology in primary progressive language and speech disorders. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) encompasses a variety of clinicopathologic entities. The antemortem prediction of the underlying pathologic lesions is reputed to be difficult. This study sought to characterize correlations between 1) the different clinical variants of primary progressive language and speech disorders and 2) the pathologic diagnosis. The latter was available for 18 patients having been prospectively monitored in the Lille Memory Clinic (France) between 1993 and 2008. The patients were diagnosed with progressive anarthria (n = 5), agrammatic progressive aphasia (n = 6), logopenic progressive aphasia (n = 1), progressive jargon aphasia (n = 2), typical semantic dementia (n = 2), and atypical semantic dementia (n = 2). All patients with progressive anarthria had a tau pathology at postmortem evaluation: progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 2), Pick disease (n = 2), and corticobasal degeneration (n = 1). All patients with agrammatic primary progressive aphasia had TDP-43-positive FTLD (FTLD-TDP). The patients with logopenic progressive aphasia and progressive jargon aphasia had Alzheimer disease. Both cases of typical semantic dementia had FTLD-TDP. The patients with atypical semantic dementia had tau pathologies: argyrophilic grain disease and corticobasal degeneration. The different anatomic distribution of the pathologic lesions could explain these results: opercular and subcortical regions in tau pathologies with progressive anarthria, the left frontotemporal cortex in TDP-43-positive frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP) with agrammatic progressive aphasia, the bilateral lateral and anterior temporal cortex in FTLD-TDP or argyrophilic grain disease with semantic dementia, and the left parietotemporal cortex in Alzheimer disease with logopenic progressive aphasia or jargon aphasia. These correlations have to be confirmed in larger series."}
{"id": "19920063", "title": "Neural correlates of psychotic symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Neural correlates of psychotic symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between psychotic symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies and brain perfusion on single photon emission tomography. Based on factor analysis in 145 patients, psychotic symptoms were classified into five symptom domains (factor 1 to 4-related symptoms and delusions). The relationship between each symptom domain and brain perfusion was assessed in 100 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies, while accounting for the effects of age, sex, dementia severity, parkinsonism and dysphoria. Factor 1 symptoms (Capgras syndrome, phantom boarder, reduplication of person and place and misidentification of person) represented misidentifications, and were significantly related to hypoperfusion in the left hippocampus, insula, ventral striatum and bilateral inferior frontal gyri. Factor 3 symptoms (visual hallucination of person and feeling of presence) represented hallucinations of person and were related to hypoperfusion in the left ventral occipital gyrus and bilateral parietal areas. Delusions of theft and persecution were associated with relative hyperperfusion in the right rostral medial frontal cortex, left medial superior frontal gyrus and bilateral dorsolateral frontal cortices. This study revealed that different psychotic symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies were associated with distinguishable cerebral networks. Visual hallucinations were related to dysfunction of the parietal and occipital association cortices, misidentifications were related to dysfunction of the limbic-paralimbic structures and delusions were related to dysfunction of the frontal cortices. Our findings provide important insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying psychotic symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "19866390", "title": "Alzheimer's disease neuropathologic changes in semantic dementia.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease neuropathologic changes in semantic dementia. Neuropathologic change underlying primary progressive aphasia (PPA) most commonly includes one of the frontotemporal lobar degenerations, such as FTLD-tau or FTLD-ubiquitin. The next most frequent etiology of PPA is Alzheimer's disease (AD). We describe 5 subjects with clinical diagnoses of semantic dementia, who underwent longitudinal clinical evaluation and postmortem neuropathology examination of the central nervous system. This case series examines retrospectively which clinical parameters might have pointed to the neuropathological diagnosis of AD. family history of late onset dementia, APOEepsilon4 status, combined features of semantic dementia and progressive non-fluent aphasia present early in illness, or generalized seizures, may indicate AD as the underlying pathology of semantic dementia."}
{"id": "19854452", "title": "Hypoperfusion of the motor cortex associated with parkinsonism in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Hypoperfusion of the motor cortex associated with parkinsonism in dementia with Lewy bodies. This study aimed to investigate the impact of parkinsonism on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Forty-four probable DLB patients, comprising 13 patients without parkinsonism and 31 patients with parkinsonism, and 16 normal controls were selected for this study. We evaluated the rCBF in each group by means of N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I] iodoamphetamine (IMP) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The rCBF in the different groups was compared using voxel-by-voxel Statistical Parametrical Mapping (SPM). Patients with DLB showed low rCBF in the frontal, temporal, and occipital cortex with relative sparing of the paracentral region. DLB patients with parkinsonism (DLB-P) had lower rCBF in the primary motor cortex (M1) and left supplementary motor area (SMA) than DLB patients without parkinsonism (DLB-nonP). DLB-nonP patients showed decreased rCBF in the left temporo-occipital region. This study suggests that two distinct clinical entities are involved in DLB. In addition, CBF changes in the M1 and SMA are seen in the early stages of Parkinson's disease. This result would help in diagnosing DLB in the context of Lewy body (LB) disease."}
{"id": "19838622", "title": "Dementia and capsular genu ischemia in patients with severe bacterial meningitis.", "content": "Dementia and capsular genu ischemia in patients with severe bacterial meningitis. Infarction in the genu of the internal capsule causes dementia that is characterized by abulia, lethargy and memory loss without obvious motor palsy (capsular genu syndrome). We found infarction or decreased cerebral blood flow in the genu of the internal capsule in 6 of 13 patients with severe bacterial meningitis. Four of these six patients developed post-meningitis dementia, characterized by abulia, lethargy, and memory loss. Of 24 patients with viral meningitis, none developed capsular genu ischemia or post-meningitis dementia. In patients with severe bacterial meningitis, capsular genu ischemia may play some role in the development of post-meningitis dementia. In patients with viral meningitis, absence of such ischemia may explain, at least in a part, the rarity of post-meningitis dementia."}
{"id": "19681169", "title": "Melatonin treatment potentiates neurodegeneration in a rat rotenone Parkinson's disease model.", "content": "Melatonin treatment potentiates neurodegeneration in a rat rotenone Parkinson's disease model. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by progressive neurodegeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system. Currently, the cause of the disease is unknown, except for a small percentage of familial cases (<10% of total). The rat rotenone model reproduces many of the pathological features of the human disease, including apomorphine-responsive behavioral deficits, DA depletion, loss of striatal DA terminals and nigral dopaminergic neurons, and alpha-synuclein/polyubiquitin-positive cytoplasmic inclusions reminiscent of Lewy bodies. Therefore, this model is well-suited to examine potential neuroprotective agents. Melatonin is produced mainly by the pineal gland and is known primarily for regulating circadian rhythms. It also has potent free radical scavenging and antiinflammatory properties. Melatonin has been reported to be neuroprotective in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) models of PD. However, there are conflicting reports suggesting that melatonin does not provide neuroprotection in these models. Melatonin elicits significant functional changes in the nigrostriatal DA system that may affect 6-OHDA and MPTP entry into cells. Therefore, rotenone is an ideal model for assessing protection, because it does not rely on the dopamine transporter uptake to exert neurotoxicity. In this study, the neuroprotective potential of melatonin in the rotenone PD model was assessed. Melatonin potentiated striatal catecholamine depletion, striatal terminal loss, and nigral DA cell loss. Indeed, melatonin alone elicited alterations in striatal catecholamine content. Our findings indicate that melatonin is not neuroprotective in the rotenone model of PD and may exacerbate neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "19572947", "title": "Relationship between ALS and the degree of cognitive impairment, markers of neurodegeneration and predictors for poor outcome. A prospective study.", "content": "Relationship between ALS and the degree of cognitive impairment, markers of neurodegeneration and predictors for poor outcome. A prospective study. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a common neurodegenerative disease affecting motor neurons and may be associated with impaired cognition. Reliable prognostic factors for ALS patients are still missing. We prospectively included 67 patients, 42 women and 25 men, with clinically defined ALS. The disease severity was assessed and the patients underwent SPECT, lumbar puncture with determination of tau, hyperphosporylated tau (p-tau) and beta-amyloid and a detailed neuropsychological assessment using a standardized test battery. In patients who died, a detailed neuropathologic evaluation was performed. The mean survival duration was 26.8 months. The delay between the first signs and confirmation of the diagnosis was 12.75 months. Cognitive impairment did not have an impact on the evolution of the disease. There was no correlation between neuropsychological and SPECT findings. Higher age at onset, more pronounced handicap and elevated beta-amyloid in the CSF were associated with shorter survival times. In brain tissue from nine of the deceased patients with ALS and dementia, all showed signs of comorbidity, six had hallmarks of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and three showed Alzheimer disease pathology. Brain tissues form 11 deceased ALS patients who did not show signs of dementia, had only changes compatible with a diagnosis of motor neuron disease. In our prospective study, age, disease severity and CSF beta-amyloid levels taken together were a risk factor suggesting shorter survival times. Dementia is relatively frequent in ALS and may be a consequence of either FTLD or result from co-existing Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "19398134", "title": "The short-term effect of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor on the regional cerebral blood flow of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The short-term effect of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor on the regional cerebral blood flow of Alzheimer's disease. This study is to investigate changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in short-term treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI). rCBF was measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). CBF measurements were performed in 13 AD patients before treatment and 4 months later, while the control group with syncope or headache consisted of 17 patients. The clinical diagnosis of AD was based on the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Significant increases in rCBF were noted in the left angular, the right superior frontal gyrus, the right occipital, the left temporal lobe and the left orbital gyrus at the end of short-term therapy. Reduction in the rCBF before treatment is more profound in the left superior temporal, the right precentral and the both inferior frontal gyri compared with the control group. It achieved increase of rCBF after ChEI treatment. Also it overall increased in global cognitive functions including Korean Version Mini Mental State Examination (K-MMSE) and Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR). Treatment with ChEI for 4 months could increase rCBF and improve cognitive function of patients with AD."}
{"id": "19036475", "title": "5-(123)I-A-85380 binding to the \u03b14\u03b22-nicotinic receptor in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "5-(123)I-A-85380 binding to the \u03b14\u03b22-nicotinic receptor in mild cognitive impairment. Treatments currently licensed for Alzheimer's dementia target cholinergic brain systems. In vivo nicotinic receptor binding may provide an early marker of illness and treatment suitability. In this pilot, we examined nine patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 10 age and education matched healthy volunteers with high resolution SPECT and the nicotinic receptor ligand 5-(123)I-A-85380. Uptake data were analysed using voxel-based techniques for group comparisons and regression analyses with cognitive impairment as covariates. MCI patients had discrete reductions in uptake in medial temporal cortex. Correlations with cognitive impairment were found in left temporo-parietal areas (Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination) and bilateral temporo-limbic areas (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test), and right parahippocampal gyrus (Rey Complex Figure Test) within the patient group. In vivo nicotinic receptor binding appears to be sensitive to brain changes in MCI. Larger scale explorations of patients undergoing treatment will be necessary to evaluate its use in predicting or monitoring treatment response."}
{"id": "20061230", "title": "[Brain functional imaging in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Brain functional imaging in Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease is nowadays the leading cause of dementia. It affects more than a third of people over 85 years old. The gold standard diagnostic proof is currently based upon pathology examination. It seems rather crucial to find methodologies that make an early and accurate in vivo diagnosis so as to offer the patient the most suitable treatment. We hereby go over several available neuro-imaging techniques used in nuclear medicine that increase the diagnostic accuracy of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "20002758", "title": "Associated conditions and clinical significance of awake bruxism.", "content": "Associated conditions and clinical significance of awake bruxism. Awake bruxism is defined as an oral parafunctional activity that includes clenching and grinding of teeth during wakefulness. Confirming the possible related anatomy and the clinical significance of awake bruxism in geriatric hospitals is the aim of this study. We analyzed the medical records of 503 patients who were admitted to hospital from April to June 2008. After the recognition of bruxism, the clinical, brain imaging studies and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) of brain single photon emission computed tomography were performed. In each disease group, five of 125 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (4.0%), three of 11 frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients (27.3%), seven of 230 stroke patients (including two patients related to citalopram, 3.0%), one of 45 Parkinson's disease patients (2.2%) and four of 17 hydrocephalus patients (23.5%) had bruxism. Even though awake bruxism occurred early after stroke onset, it occurred late after AD and FTD onset. This occurred in a far advanced stage of AD, while it occurred in a moderately advanced stage of FTD. SPM analysis in AD and FTD patients with awake bruxism revealed significant hypoperfusion in frontotemporal and other subcortical structures. Surface electromyography recordings from the masseter muscle showed rhythmic regular motor activity at a rate of 1-2/s. This study suggests that awake bruxism is encountered not infrequently in various diseases in geriatric hospitals. It is frequently observed in FTD and normal pressure hydrocephalus, which characteristically shows frontal lobe dysfunction. These facts and SPM analysis show that awake bruxism can be regarded as a frontal neurological sign of various neurological disorders."}
{"id": "19938684", "title": "[Brain functional imaging of frontotemporal lobar degeneration].", "content": "[Brain functional imaging of frontotemporal lobar degeneration]. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is one of the common diseases causing dementia by including degenerative changes within the brain. The clinical subtypes of FTLD comprise frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), and semantic dementia (SD). In this review, the role of the brain functional imaging on diagnosing of FTLD is described. Regionally distinct patterns of hypoperfusion on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) are helpful in differentiation of FTLD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The recently developed techniques show great promise in detecting specific neuropathological changes in dementia such as amyloid and tau pathology."}
{"id": "19938680", "title": "[Semantic dementia--a multimodal disorder of conceptual knowledge].", "content": "[Semantic dementia--a multimodal disorder of conceptual knowledge]. Semantic dementia (SD) is a clinical syndrome characterized by progressive loss of semantic memory/ conceptual knowledge and by bilateral, but usually asymmetric, atrophy of the anterior temporal lobes (ATLS). On the basis of the neuropsychological findings of SD, the two theoretical implications for the organization of semantic memory have been suggested. First, selective impairment of semantic memory in the early stages of SD contrasts with the isolated loss of episodic memory in patients with damage to the medial temporal lobes and other Papez's circuit components. This double dissociation provides empirical evidence for fractionation of explicit memory into the two subsystems with different neural underpinnings. Second, the multimodal nature of semantic deficits in SD leads to a seminal view that semantic memory is organized as an amodal system. The ATLs play a pivotal role as a 'convergence zone' or 'semantic hub' integrating abundant verbal and perceptual attributes that are represented in the posterior temporal and temporo-occipital cortices. To develop further comprehensive theories regarding semantic memory, we should understand differential roles of the left and right ATLs and clarify the clinicoanatomical relationship between verbal, visual, and emotional aspects of semantic memory loss and the detailed anatomical localization of the lesions."}
{"id": "19877236", "title": "Dopamine transporter single photon emission computerized tomography in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dopamine transporter single photon emission computerized tomography in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is part of the spectrum of Lewy body disorders. However, it may be difficult to diagnose patients who have dementia but no Parkinsonism. Visual and semiquantitative assessment of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic nerve terminals in the putamen and caudate nuclei can be obtained with single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) using ligands that bind to the dopamine transporter molecule in the membranes of the nigrostriatal nerve terminals. This can be employed as a means of identifying subclinical degeneration of nigrostriatal neurones in patients with suspected DLB, increasing the probability of the diagnosis. In several studies, the sensitivity and specificity of abnormal dopamine transporter scans with regard to diagnosing probable DLB are better than 75 and 90%, respectively. This communication outlines the evidence for this and discusses some of the advantages, potential disadvantages, and areas of uncertainty with regard to the use of dopamine transporter SPECT in DLB diagnosis."}
{"id": "19864909", "title": "Subcortical vascular dementia biomarker pattern in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Subcortical vascular dementia biomarker pattern in mild cognitive impairment. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an etiologically unclear disorder. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are potentially useful for the differentiation between various MCI etiologies. The aim of the study was to assess whether baseline CSF hyperphosphorylated tau (P-tau), total tau (T-tau), amyloid beta 1-42 (Abeta(42)) and neurofilament light (NF-L) in patients with MCI could predict subcortical vascular dementia (SVD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) at follow-up. Biomarker levels were assessed by Luminex xMAP technology and ELISA. Increased baseline concentrations of NF-L significantly separated MCI-SVD from stable MCI. The MCI-SVD patients were inseparable from stable MCI but separable from patients developing AD (MCI-AD) on the basis of Abeta(42,) T-tau and P-tau(181) levels. A combination of the biomarkers Abeta(42), T-tau, P-tau(181) and NF-L has the potential to improve the clinical separation of MCI-SVD patients from stable MCI and MCI-AD patients."}
{"id": "19863263", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow in patients with alcohol-related dementia: a SPECT study.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow in patients with alcohol-related dementia: a SPECT study. The purpose of this study was to investigate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes using 1110 MBq of Tc-99m ECD SPECT in alcohol-related dementia (ARD) patients. Twenty-five patients with ARD and 22 healthy control subjects were included in the study. Mini-Mental Status Examination was applied to the patients and controls. The ARD patients showed drastically reduced rCBF in the frontal cortices, basal ganglia, and thalami. The results indicate that ARD is associated with hypoperfusion in both cortical and subcortical regions. These findings support previous studies suggesting the association with both cortical and subcortical neuropathology in ARD patients."}
{"id": "19765180", "title": "Neuronal cell replacement in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Neuronal cell replacement in Parkinson's disease. Transplantation of foetal dopamine neurons into the striatum of Parkinson's disease patients can provide restoration of the dopamine system and alleviate motor deficits. However, cellular replacement is associated with several problems. As with pharmacological treatments, cell therapy can lead to disabling abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesias). The exclusion of serotonin and GABA neurons, and enrichment of substantia nigra (A9) dopamine neurons, may circumvent this problem. Furthermore, although grafted foetal dopamine neurons can survive in Parkinson's patients for more than a decade, the occurrence of Lewy bodies within such transplanted cells and reduced dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase expression levels indicate that grafted cells are associated with pathology. It will be important to understand if such abnormalities are host- or graft induced and to develop methods to ensure survival of functional dopamine neurons. Careful preparation of cellular suspensions to minimize graft-induced inflammatory responses might influence the longevity of transplanted cells. Finally, a number of practical and ethical issues are associated with the use of foetal tissue sources. Thus, future cell therapy is aiming towards the use of embryonic stem cell or induced pluripotent stem cell derived dopamine neurons."}
{"id": "19759102", "title": "The 18F-FDG PET cingulate island sign and comparison to 123I-beta-CIT SPECT for diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "The 18F-FDG PET cingulate island sign and comparison to 123I-beta-CIT SPECT for diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Neuroimaging is increasingly used to supplement the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) by showing reduced occipital metabolism and perfusion and reduced striatal dopaminergic innervation. We aimed to optimize the interpretation of (18)F-FDG PET images for differentiating DLB from Alzheimer disease (AD) and to compare the results with dopamine transporter imaging using (123)I-beta-carbomethoxy-3ss-(4-iodophenyl)tropane ((123)I-beta-CIT) SPECT. Fourteen subjects with a clinical diagnosis of DLB and 10 with AD underwent both (18)F-FDG PET and (123)I-beta-CIT SPECT. Four DLB and 1 AD diagnoses were subsequently confirmed at autopsy. Diagnostic accuracy was calculated for visual interpretation by 3 readers of standard 3-plane and stereotactic surface projection (18)F-FDG PET images, receiver-operating-characteristic analysis of regional (18)F-FDG uptake, and a cutoff value for the striatal-to-occipital binding ratio of beta-CIT defined by receiver-operating-characteristic analysis. Visual interpretation of 3-plane (18)F-FDG PET images had a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 93% for DLB, slightly higher than the results with the stereotactic surface projection images. Regionally, hypometabolism in the lateral occipital cortex had the highest sensitivity (88%), but relative preservation of the mid or posterior cingulate gyrus (cingulate island sign) had the highest specificity (100%). Region-of-interest analysis revealed that occipital hypometabolism and relative preservation of the posterior cingulate both had a sensitivity of 77% and specificity of 80%. beta-CIT achieved 100% accuracy and greater effect size than did (18)F-FDG PET (Cohen d = 4.1 vs. 1.9). Both (18)F-FDG PET and (123)I-beta-CIT SPECT appear useful for the diagnosis of DLB, although the latter provides more robust results. The cingulate island sign may enhance the specificity of (18)F-FDG PET."}
{"id": "19711116", "title": "Formation and development of Lewy pathology: a critical update.", "content": "Formation and development of Lewy pathology: a critical update. Filamentous protein inclusions in neurons (Lewy bodies, LB) and dystrophic neurites containing pathologic alpha-synuclein (alpha Syn) are the morphologic hallmarks of sporadic Parkinson disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), but are also found in aged subjects and in a variety of neurogenerative disorders. They occur in the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous system as an essential or coincident feature. Their formation runs through several phases from initial dust-like particles cross-linked with alpha Syn to aggregation of ubiquitinated dense filaments, formation of LBs, finally degradation and death of the afflicted neurons. Pathologic accumulation of alpha Syn/LBs proposed by Braak et al. (Neurobiol Aging 24:197-211, 2003), following a predictable sequence of lesions in six stages with ascending progression from medullary and olfactory nuclei to the cortex, has been considered to be linked to clinical dysfunctions. The consensus pathologic guidelines of DLB (Neurology 65:1863-1872, 2005), by semiquantitative scoring to alpha Syn pathology (LB density and distribution) in specific brain regions, distinguish three phenotypes (brainstem, transitional/limbic, and diffuse neocortical), and also consider concomitant Alzheimer-related pathology. alpha Syn pathology in the amygdala is often associated with Alzheimer disease. Although some retrospective clinico-pathologic studies have largely confirmed the Braak LB staging system, it shows neither correlation to the clinical severity and duration of parkinsonism nor to nigral alpha Syn burden and cell loss which significantly correlates with resulting striatal loss of dopamine, dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase, duration and severity of motor dysfunction. Between 6.3 and 43% of clinically manifested PD cases did not follow this pattern, and in 7-8.3% of those with alpha Syn-positive inclusions in midbrain and cortex the medullary nuclei were spared. On the other hand, 30-55% of elderly subjects with widespread Lewy pathology revealed no neuropsychiatric symptoms or were not classifiable. Therefore, detection and staging of Lewy pathology without assessment of neuronal loss in specific areas may not have clinical impact and its predictive validity is questionable. For demented patients, modified criteria for categorization of Lewy pathology were proposed. If robust correlations between clinical course and Lewy/alpha Syn pathology are to be confirmed by future studies, the currently used morphologic staging/classification systems should be revised accordingly."}
{"id": "19705622", "title": "Frequency and clinical features of Lewy body dementia in Italian memory clinics.", "content": "Frequency and clinical features of Lewy body dementia in Italian memory clinics. The latest developments in Lewy Body Dementia (DLB) raise some controversies on clinical features, neuroimaging and therapy. The aim of our study is to determine clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and EEG profile of DLB through retrospective and prospective data of 102 patients. data were collected with an analytical form that was developed by an expertise of neurologists. DLB represented 4.8% of the dementia population, with no sex difference. Family history of dementia was common (24.5%), while familiarity for parkinsonism was rare (4.9%). Cognitive disturbances were the predominant clinical presentation at onset (49%), followed by behavioral symptoms (29.4%) and parkinsonism (21.6%). Clinical features at consultation were: memory disturbances (almost all cases), symmetrical (68.6%) or asymmetrical (18.6%) parkinsonism, cognitive fluctuations (49%), visuospatial deficits (53.9%), and visual hallucinations (44.1%). Autonomic signs were present in a third of the cases, while sleep disorders were present in 44.1%. Some clinical response to antiparkinsonian drugs was evident in half of the cases. MRI, SPET, EEG and Neuropsychiatric Inventory data were available in a subgroup of patients. Most of our data were in accordance with the previous literature. However, some data underline the relationship between DLB, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "19705471", "title": "Severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms and dopamine transporter levels in dementia with Lewy bodies: a 123I-FP-CIT SPECT study.", "content": "Severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms and dopamine transporter levels in dementia with Lewy bodies: a 123I-FP-CIT SPECT study. Neuropsychiatric symptoms are frequent in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with (123)I-labeled ligand N-delta-(fluoropropyl)-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropene ((123)I-FP-CIT), which reliably measures midbrain dopaminergic dysfunction, has provided important evidence on the neurobiological substrate of some of these symptoms including apathy and depression. However, little is known on DAT levels and other distressing symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations. Therefore, (123)I-FP-CIT imaging was performed in 18 well-characterized patients with DLB, and striatal DAT levels were correlated with the frequency/severity ratings of several neuropsychiatric symptoms. A wide range of neuropsychiatric symptoms could be observed in the sample. Significant correlations were observed between decreased striatal DAT levels and visual hallucinations. Although there were no correlations between striatal DAT levels and other neuropsychiatric symptoms, when considering the putamen and the caudate nucleus separately, delusions, depression, and apathy were inversely correlated to decreased caudate DAT levels. The seresults provide intriguing evidence on the involvement of the mesocortical dopaminergic pathways in neuropsychiatric symptoms in DLB."}
{"id": "19690415", "title": "Revisiting brain reserve hypothesis in frontotemporal dementia: evidence from a brain perfusion study.", "content": "Revisiting brain reserve hypothesis in frontotemporal dementia: evidence from a brain perfusion study. Literature data on Alzheimer's disease suggest that years of schooling and occupational level are associated with a reserve mechanism. No data on patients with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) are available yet. To evaluate the impact of education, occupation, and midlife leisure activities on brain reserve in bvFTD. Fifty-four bvFTD patients entered the study and underwent neuropsychological and behavioral assessment, including the FTD-modified Clinical Dementia Rating for FTD (FTD-modified CDR), and SPECT imaging. We tested for the linear correlation of educational and occupational level, and midlife leisure activities with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), controlling for demographic variables (age and gender) and for cognitive performance (FTD-modified CDR) (statistical parametric mapping). A significant relationship between higher educational and occupational attainments and lower rCBF in medial frontal cortex and dorsolateral frontal cortex, bilaterally, was found (p < 0.005). When midlife leisure activities were considered, no correlation was found. The correlation between a reserve index, accounting for both educational and occupational level, and rCBF showed the same pattern of hypoperfusion. This study suggests that education and occupation act as proxies for reserve capacity in bvFTD. These lifestyle attainments may counteract the onset of this genetic-based disease in at-risk individuals."}
{"id": "19684240", "title": "Reduced perfusion in the anterior cingulate cortex of patients with pure autonomic failure: an 123I-IMP SPECT study.", "content": "Reduced perfusion in the anterior cingulate cortex of patients with pure autonomic failure: an 123I-IMP SPECT study. Pure autonomic failure (PAF) is a selective peripheral disorder in which Lewy bodies form within the autonomic ganglia. Patients with this disorder usually have no central lesions; however, chronic autonomic failure may secondarily affect the central nervous system. This study evaluated brain perfusion in patients with PAF by using N-isopropyl-p-(123)I iodoamphetamine ((123)I-IMP) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Six patients with PAF (all men; mean (SD) age 68+/-5 years) who had experienced autonomic symptoms for more than 5 years and six age-matched healthy control subjects (all men; mean (SD) age 67+/-5 years) were included in this study. The regions of interest (ROI) on spacially normalized (123)I-IMP SPECT images were automatically computed for both groups. Perfusion of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex was decreased in the PAF group compared with the healthy control group (0.93 vs 1.01; p<0.001). In the other brain regions measured, there was no significant difference in regional perfusion between the two groups. The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex is poorly perfused and may be functionally altered in patients with PAF. The reduced perfusion in such individuals may be a secondary change that results from chronic autonomic failure."}
{"id": "19675861", "title": "Semi-quantitative analysis of perfusion of Brodmann areas in the differential diagnosis of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease, fronto-temporal dementia and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Semi-quantitative analysis of perfusion of Brodmann areas in the differential diagnosis of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease, fronto-temporal dementia and mild cognitive impairment. Different perfusion defects reflect neurological damage characteristics of different kinds of dementia. Our aim was to investigate the role of brain single photon emission tomography (SPET) with semiquantitative analysis of Brodmann areas in dementia, by technetium-99m - hexamethyl-propylenamine- oxime ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) brain SPET with semiquantitative analysis of Brodmann areas in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We studied 75 patients, 25 with AD (NiNCDS ADRDA criteria), 25 with FTD (Lund and Manchester criteria), 25 with MCI (EADC criteria). After i.v. injection of 740MBq of (99m)Tc-HMPAO, each patient underwent brain SPET. A software application was used able to map the SPET brain image to a stereotaxic atlas (Talairach), providing an affine co-registration by blocks of data defined in the Talairach space. A normal database calculating voxel by voxel the mean and the standard deviation of the measured values was built. Functional SPET data of 3D regions of interest (ROI) of predefined Brodmann's area templates were compared with those of a database of healthy subjects of the same age and gender. Mean values obtained in the Brodmann area ROI in the different groups of patients studied were evaluated. Our results showed that different Brodmann areas were significantly impaired in the different categories of dementia subjects. Both areas 37 (temporal gyrus) and 39 (angular gyrus) of AD patients (mean+/-SD: 37L= -1.6+/-1.0; 37R= -1.5+/-1.1; 39L= -2.3+/-1.3; 39R= -1.9+/-1.2) showed significant hypoperfusion (P<0.05) versus MCI (37L= -0.9 +/-0.7; 37R= -1.1+/-0.9; 39L= -1.4+/-1.1; 39R= -1.6+/-1.6.) and FTD (37L= -1.1+/-0.8; 37R= -1.0+/-0.9; 39L= -1.4+/-1.0; 39R= -1.2+/-1.2) subjects. AD patients showed significantly (P<0.01) decreased perfusion in areas 40 (supramarginal gyrus) (40L= -2.6+/-1.0; 40R= -2.3+/-1.1) with respect to MCI patients (40L= -1.8+/-0.9; 40R= -1.7+/-1.2). Finally, FTD patients showed significant hypoperfusion (P<0.05) in both areas 47 (frontal association cortex) (47L= -1.8+/-0.8; 47R= -1.1+/-0.8) in comparison with MCI subjects (47L= -1.2+/-0.9; 47R= -0.9+/-0.9). In conclusion, our results suggest that semiquantitative analysis of single Brodmann areas identify frontal area hypoperfusion in FTD patients and also parietal and temporal impairment in AD patients. In MCI patients, no hypoperfusion pattern is identified."}
{"id": "19585954", "title": "Imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging in Alzheimer's disease. Neuroimaging in the early differential diagnosis of dementia has gained considerable interest over the last decade. From being used for exclusive purposes only, neuroimaging is now in the forefront of aiding in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia, vascular dementia, and and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). With the exception of dopamine transporter single photon-emission computed tomography imaging in DLB, imaging has not yet been incorporated into the diagnostic criteria for the various dementia syndromes, but that will soon change. The recently formulated research criteria for early AD recently formulated by Dubois et al explicitly mention magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography for AD, and are an example of a new diagnostic process developing. In this review, the various imaging techniques will be highlighted, with an emphasis on their ability to diagnose Alzheimer's disease and separate it from other entities."}
{"id": "19582652", "title": "[Sensitivity of neurochemical dementia diagnostics in CSF compared to 99mTc-SPECT in Alzheimer's dementia].", "content": "[Sensitivity of neurochemical dementia diagnostics in CSF compared to 99mTc-SPECT in Alzheimer's dementia]. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia is currently changing from a late and exclusion diagnosis towards a pathophysiology-based early and positive diagnosis. Especially advances in neuro-chemical dementia diagnostics in the cerebrospinal fluid (NDD-CSF) and imaging techniques like PET, SPECT or MRI are of particular interest. Unfortunately, many studies investigated only either one or other technique. In the present study 56 patients (average 67.1 years; average mini-mental status test (MMST) 22.2) were examined with the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia. All patients both underwent NDD-CSF as well as 99mTc-SPECT. Only the SPECT, but not the NDD-CSF correlated with disease severity. Sensitivity of NDD-CSF was 89 % and SPECT 48 % for all patients and 93 % resp. 61 % for patients with MMST < 24. Below MMST 20 both methods had equal sensitivity. Both diagnostic techniques showed no statistic coherence (p = 0.27), neither after correction for subgroups like disease severity or the APOE genotype. Our results are compatible with the hypothesis that the NDD-CSF reflects beta-amyloid-aggregation and Tau-Protein pathology as a pathophysiologic biomarker. Our results suggest that SPECT is rather a state parameter for the rCBF changes following cortical neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "19575281", "title": "Diagnostic performance of Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT for early and late onset Alzheimer's disease: a clinical evaluation of linearization correction.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT for early and late onset Alzheimer's disease: a clinical evaluation of linearization correction. This study examined the influence of linearization correction (LC) on brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The early onset group (<65 years old) consisted of 10 patients with AD, and the late onset group (>/=65 years old) of 13 patients with AD. Age-matched controls included seven younger and seven older normal volunteers. Tc-99m hexamethyl propyleneamine oxine (HMPAO) SPECT images were reconstructed with or without LC [LC (+) or LC (-)] and a statistical analysis was performed using a three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP). In addition, a fully automatic diagnostic system was developed, which calculated the proportion of the number of abnormal pixels in the superior and inferior parietal lobule, as well as in the precuneus and posterior cingulate gyrus. The areas under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUCs) of the early onset group for conventional axial SPECT images, SPECT + 3D-SSP images and the fully automatic diagnostic system were 0.71, 0.88, and 0.92 in LC (-) and 0.67, 0.85, and 0.91 in LC (+), respectively. The AUCs of the late onset group were 0.50, 0.61, and 0.79 in LC (-) and 0.49, 0.67, and 0.85 in LC (+), respectively. LC on Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT did not significantly influence the diagnostic performance for differentiating between AD and normal controls in either early or late onset AD. Further examination with individuals suffering from very mild dementia is, therefore, expected to elucidate the effect of LC on minimally hypoperfused areas."}
{"id": "19558951", "title": "[Regional cerebral blood flow changes in Parkinson's disease: correlation with disease duration].", "content": "[Regional cerebral blood flow changes in Parkinson's disease: correlation with disease duration]. Changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) have been reported in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Nonetheless, their typical pattern still remains controversial regarding some features, such as basal ganglia involvement and the main cortical regions affected. Functional neuroimaging makes it possible to identify the brain dysfunctions of the neural circuits underlying the disease. Voxel-based analysis methods make it possible to increase the reliability of the results. To assess the rCBF changes in patients with PD and their relation with disease duration. Thirty PD adult patients without dementia underwent evaluation with (99m)Tc-ECD SPECT. SPM5 was used for statistical comparison with 25 normal controls of similar ages. The disease course duration in years was added as a covariate. Additionally, patients with a 6-year evolution or less and those with more than 6 years were compared separately with normal controls. Significant hypoperfusion was detected in bilateral premotor and posterior parietal cortex and increase of perfusion was present in the cerebellum. These changes correlated with the years of evolution of the illness. Patients with longer evolution also presented thalamic, subthalamic and basal ganglia hypoperfusion. We describe rCBF changes in PD in neural circuits related with control of movements. These changes are more manifest in patients with a longer duration of the disease."}
{"id": "19553153", "title": "\"Parkinson-dementia\" diseases: a comparison by double tracer SPECT studies.", "content": "\"Parkinson-dementia\" diseases: a comparison by double tracer SPECT studies. We performed 123I-FP-CIT/SPECT and ECD/SPECT in 30 patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and 30 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) to evaluate whether presynaptic nigro-striatal function and/or cerebral perfusional pattern is different in these diseases. The striatal uptake of DAT tracer was statistically significantly lower in PDD and DLB with respect to control data (p < 0.0005), however no significant difference was found between PDD and DLB. Patients with PDD and DLB showed a significant reduction of rCBF (p < 0.001) in parieto-occipital and frontal areas, with respect to controls, but the comparison between the two groups did not result in any significant difference by SPM analysis. Finally no correlation was found between any regional perfusional changes and nigro-striatal dysfunction. We conclude that neither studies with 123I-FP-CIT nor ECD/SPECT were able to discriminate between DLB and PDD in vivo."}
{"id": "19499384", "title": "Altered emotional morality in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Altered emotional morality in frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD), a disorder characterised by abnormal social behaviour and potential sociopathy, provides a window to the neurobiology of moral behaviour. This study investigated the basis of altered moral judgements in patients with FTD. We administered an inventory of moral knowledge, five \"reasoned\" moral dilemmas, and five \"emotional\" moral dilemmas where subjects may cause direct harm to another through their own actions, to 21 patients with FTD compared to 21 comparably mildly impaired patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 21 normal controls. Among the FTD patients, the results were compared to findings on functional neuroimaging. All groups showed retention of knowledge for moral behaviour and the ability to make reasoned moral judgements. In contrast to the other groups, the FTD patients were altered in their ability to make emotional moral judgements. Among the FTD patients, the altered moral judgements corresponded to right hemisphere frontotemporal involvement. In FTD patients, these findings suggest a decreased emotional responsiveness to others and a tendency to respond to moral dilemmas in a calculated fashion. Such a disturbance may result from ventromedial frontal dysfunction in FTD and supports the presence of a \"morality\" network in the brain, predominantly in the right hemisphere."}
{"id": "19481429", "title": "Differential automatic diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia based on perfusion SPECT images.", "content": "Differential automatic diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia based on perfusion SPECT images. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are among the most frequent neurodegenerative cognitive disorders, but their differential diagnosis is difficult. The aim of this study was to evaluate an automatic method returning the probability that a patient suffers from AD or FTD from the analysis of brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography images. A set of 116 descriptors corresponding to the average activity in regions of interest was calculated from the images of 82 AD and 91 FTD patients. A set of linear (logistic regression and linear discriminant analysis) and non-linear (support vector machines, k-nearest neighbours, multilayer perceptron and kernel logistic PLS) classification methods was subsequently used to ascertain diagnoses. Validation was carried out by means of the leave-one-out protocol. Diagnoses by the classifier and by four physicians (visual assessment) were compared. Since images were acquired in different hospitals, the impact of the medical centre on the diagnosis of both the classifier and the physicians was investigated. Best results were obtained with support vector machine and partial least squares regression coupled with k-nearest neighbours methods (PLS+K-NN), with an overall accuracy of 88%. PLS+K-NN was however considered as the best method since performances obtained with leave-one-out cross-validation were closer to whole-database learning. The performances of the classifier were higher than those of experts (accuracy ranged from 65 to 72%). Physicians found it more difficult to diagnose the images from centres other than their own, and it affected their performances. The performances obtained by the classifier for the differential diagnosis of AD and FTD were found convincing. It could help physicians in daily practice, particularly when visual assessment is inconclusive, or when dealing with multicentre data."}
{"id": "19477227", "title": "Analysis of SPECT brain images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using moments and support vector machines.", "content": "Analysis of SPECT brain images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using moments and support vector machines. This paper presents a computer-aided diagnosis technique for improving the accuracy of diagnosing the Alzheimer's type dementia. The proposed methodology is based on the calculation of the skewness for each m-by-m-by-m sliding block of the SPECT brain images. The center pixel in this m-by-m-by-m block is replaced by the skewness value to build a new 3-D brain image which is used for classification purposes. After that, voxels which present a Welch's t-statistic between classes, Normal and Alzheimer's images, higher (or lower) than a threshold are selected. The mean, standard deviation, skewness and kurtosis are calculated for these selected voxels and they are subjected as features to linear kernel based support vector machine classifier. The proposed methodology reaches accuracy higher than 99% in the classification task."}
{"id": "19471923", "title": "Neuropsychological functions and rCBF SPECT in Parkinson's disease patients considered candidates for deep brain stimulation.", "content": "Neuropsychological functions and rCBF SPECT in Parkinson's disease patients considered candidates for deep brain stimulation. In the present study, we examined relationships between neuropsychological functions and brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) observed at presurgical evaluation for deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Twenty advanced non-demented PD patients, candidates for DBS surgery, underwent perfusion brain SPECT study and neuropsychological assessment prior to surgery (range: 30-50 days). Patients were further assessed using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) scale. During all assessments patients were \"on\" standard medication. NeuroGam software, which permits voxel by voxel analysis, was used to compare the brain perfusion of PD patients with a normal database adjusted for sex and age. Neuropsychological scores were compared to age, education and sex-adjusted normative databases. Our results indicated that the distribution of rCBF showed significant differences when compared to an age- and sex-adjusted normative database. We found impaired blood flow in 17 (85%) of our patients in the left prefrontal lobe, in 14 (70%) in the right prefrontal lobe and in 11 (55%) in the left frontal and right parietal lobes. Neuropsychological testing revealed that 18 (90%) of our patients had significant impairments in measures of executive functions (set-shifting) and 15 (75%) in response inhibition. Furthermore, we found significant correlations between measures of visual attention, executive functions and the right frontal lobe region. The presence of widespread blood flow reduction was observed mainly in the frontal lobes of dementia-free patients with advanced PD. Furthermore, performance on specific cognitive measures was highly related to perfusion brain SPECT findings."}
{"id": "19441130", "title": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection SPECT analysis in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection SPECT analysis in Parkinson's disease. Although dementia is increasingly recognized as a common feature in Parkinson's disease (PD), its pathological substrate remains unknown. We conducted cross-sectional and longitudinal brain perfusion SPECT analyses to explore changes during the course of developing dementia in PD. Fifty-five patients originally diagnosed with PD were imaged in the cross-sectional study. Twenty-one of these, nine without dementia and 12 with dementia (PDD), were included in the longitudinal study to observe perfusion changes during the course of their disease. Data were analyzed using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection SPECT analysis. The UK Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank criteria were used to diagnose PD and the revised criteria for the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies for PDD. The cross-sectional study showed that patients with PDD had significantly reduced perfusion in the right posterior cingulate, the right precuneus and the left posterior cingulate area. In the longitudinal study, significantly reduced perfusion was observed in the left anterior frontal gyrus in PD without dementia, and in the right inferior parietal lobule in those that developed PDD. We suggest that a relationship exists between developing dementia in PDD and reduced perfusion in the posterior parietal area."}
{"id": "19377859", "title": "Agraphia in intellectually normal Japanese patients with ALS: omission of kana letters.", "content": "Agraphia in intellectually normal Japanese patients with ALS: omission of kana letters. To investigate the occurrence of a writing defect, omission of kana letters (OKL), in intellectually normal Japanese patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and define the neuroimaging profile of OKL. Sixteen Japanese adults (10 men and 6 women), similar in age (mean 62.9 +/- 9.9 years) and level of education (mean 12.6 +/- 2.13 years), with early-stage, classical ALS (mean duration 15.9 +/- 5.45 months) were investigated, including tests of motor function and ALS progression; intellectual function including writing ability; and neuroimaging, with follow-up of 1 year. Main outcome measures were as follows: Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices (RCPM: intellect and psychomotor speed); one-minute verbal fluency measurement; paired associate word-learning test (PAWLT); Western Aphasia Battery (WAB); moraic segmentation test; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); and (123)I-isopropyl amphetamine ((123)I-IMP) or (99m)Tc-ethylcysteinate dimmer (ECD) single photon emission tomography (SPECT). Three patients (18.8%) showed OKL (WAB), with disturbance in moraic segmentation. One patient showed decreased blood flow to the bilateral frontal lobes by (123)I-IMP-SPECT. Patients with OKL did not differ significantly from those without in the RCPM (intellect), RCPM (time), verbal fluency, or PAWLT (p = 0.10, 0.84, 0.63, 0.55). Although motor dysfunction and weakness progressed during follow-up, none developed symptoms of dementia. The OKL may develop as a relatively early cognitive symptom in intellectually normal Japanese patients with classical ALS. The neuroimaging profile of OKL remains uncertain."}
{"id": "19363270", "title": "Dopamine D3 receptor gene polymorphism influences on behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) in mild dementia of Alzheimer's type.", "content": "Dopamine D3 receptor gene polymorphism influences on behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) in mild dementia of Alzheimer's type. Dopamine D3 receptor (DRD3) is present in the limbic system, which is thought to regulate affect, cognition, and activity. Thus a functional change in the DRD3 gene could in turn affect the cognitive and psychiatric symptoms of dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT). We investigated a possible association of DRD3 genotype with DAT and the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) in mild DAT. The genotyping for DRD3 and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) was determined using restriction fragment length polymorphism in 210 patients with mild DAT and 224 age- and sex-matched non-demented controls. The occurrence of BPSD during the course of mild dementia was demonstrated using the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease rating scale (BEHAVE-AD). No significant differences in DRD3 genotype were identified between DAT and controls, regardless of ApoE epsilon4. Among the DAT with BPSD, however, a significant association was observed between the presence of the DRD3 glycine allele and paranoid and delusional ideation, regardless of ApoE epsilon4. In conclusion, DRD3 gene polymorphism is unlikely to play a substantial role in conferring susceptibility to DAT, but it may be involved in the development of paranoid and delusional ideation during the course of mild DAT."}
{"id": "19350708", "title": "Reversed concreteness effect for nouns in a subject with semantic dementia.", "content": "Reversed concreteness effect for nouns in a subject with semantic dementia. Selective sparing of abstract relative to concrete words has been documented only exceptionally in aphasia, following bilateral temporal damage. In this paper we present a new case with sparing of abstract word processing and impairment of concrete words due to selective atrophy of the left anterior temporal regions.In our subject, the reversal of the concreteness effect was restricted to nouns. Performance on nouns was not homogeneous. Proper names (people and landmarks) were very severely damaged. Among common names, living entities were selectively impaired in comparison to non-living entities. Category-specific damage for living beings resulted from widespread loss of conceptual information, and perceptual information was less impaired than associative knowledge. This observation challenges theories explaining the reversal of concreteness effect with a selective loss of perceptual information. Also the alternative account, namely a different representational architecture for abstract as opposed to concrete terms, with an advantage for concrete words accruing from an impairment of categorical information, fails to account for the data.Most subjects showing preserved knowledge of abstract words, relative to concrete words, suffer from diseases affecting anterior temporal regions (semantic dementia, herpes encephalitis), and frequently present with greater, or unilateral involvement of the left hemisphere. Our case converges with similar previous reports and with some neuroimaging studies in suggesting that the right temporal lobe and probably the left inferior prefrontal gyrus play a crucial role in the representation of abstract concepts."}
{"id": "19348176", "title": "[Alien hand sign observed at the initial stage of a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease].", "content": "[Alien hand sign observed at the initial stage of a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease]. A 68-year-old man was admitted to our hospital in the mid-October of 2006 because of a one-month history of peculiar movements of the left hand, which had been preceded by one month by awkward motions in the left leg. Upon neurological examination, spontaneous involuntary movement of the left hand was found. His left hand with his index finger stretched moved toward his right side spontaneously. He could not control his left leg freely. Although he showed mild ataxia in his left hand, there was no weakness, no dystonia, and no apraxia. No sensory abnormality was detected except for mild deep-sensation impairment in his left foot. The results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) were normal; however, single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed hypoperfusion in the right hemisphere. At the time of admission, although a clinical diagnosis could not be made, we considered that the involuntary movements of his left hand were consistent with alien hand sign (AHS). Two and a half months after its onset, with the development of rapidly progressive dementia and generalized myoclonus, AHS gradually disappeared. Three months after the AHS onset, MRI with DWI showed restricted diffusion within the cortex involving the cingulated gyrus and bilateral temporal lobes, which was more prominent on the right than on the left side. Four months after the AHS onset, 14-3-3 protein level of the cerebrospinal fluid was elevated, and EEG recordings showed diffuse slowing of basic activity with periodic complexes. The patient was clinically diagnosed as having CJD. The patient died of pneumonia four and a half months after the AHS onset. AHS has rarely been reported in patients with CJD. Our case illustrates the importance of considering CJD in the differential diagnosis, if the patient showed AHS, even with normal MRI findings."}
{"id": "19330195", "title": "[Molecular imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism with SPET and PET in principal dementias].", "content": "[Molecular imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism with SPET and PET in principal dementias]. In this review article the significance of molecular imaging techniques, single photon emission tomography and positron emission tomography (SPET and PET), in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of various types of dementia is described. A major part of this article is focused on molecular imaging in Alzheimer's disease where parietal, temporal and posterior cingulate cortex hypoperfusion and hypometabolism are the predominant findings in molecular imaging modalities. In cases of mild amnestic cognitive impairment, molecular SPET imaging can differentiate patients converting to Alzheimer's disease from non converters. Molecular SPET imaging with pre-synaptic dopamine receptors radioligand ((123)I-ioflupane or DaTSCAN), is the method of choice in order to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from Lewy body dementia. Finally, nuclear medicine procedures support the diagnosis in fronto-temporal and multi-infarct dementia."}
{"id": "19330182", "title": "Alzheimer's dementia and post-traumatic stress disorder differences and similarities in neuroimaging.", "content": "Alzheimer's dementia and post-traumatic stress disorder differences and similarities in neuroimaging. There are studies supporting the suggestion that a severe psychological stress in the elderly can be the risk factor of Alzheimer's dementia (AB) and other types of dementia. We have reviewed the findings of single photon emission tomography, positron emission tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), related to brain function and structure in AD and in post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). There is evidence that prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices dysfunction contributes to PTSD symptomatology. Similarities between the two different aforementioned diseases exist in the areas of (a) medial temporal lobe, (b) hippocampus and (c) cingulated cortex."}
{"id": "19329351", "title": "Performance on an Alzheimer-selective odor identification test in patients with Parkinson's disease and its relationship with cerebral dopamine transporter activity.", "content": "Performance on an Alzheimer-selective odor identification test in patients with Parkinson's disease and its relationship with cerebral dopamine transporter activity. Previous studies have shown selective deficits of odor identification in both Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Brief, selective AD smell screening tests have been developed to identify subjects at risk of AD. The disease specificity of such screening tests has not been formally evaluated. To evaluate the performance of an Alzheimer-selective odor identification test in patients with PD and its relationship with cerebral dopamine transporter (DAT) activity. PD patients (n=44; Hoehn and Yahr stages I-III; 13f/31m; mean age 59.3+/-10.1) and 44 controls matched for gender and age completed the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT). All patients had PD duration > 1 year and none had evidence of dementia. Using the UPSIT, we calculated performance on the 10 odors previously reported to be selective for AD risk (UPSIT-AD10). A subset of 29 PD patients also underwent brain DAT [(11)C]beta-CFT (2-beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-fluorophenyl) tropane) PET imaging. DAT binding was assessed in the hippocampus, amygdala, ventral and dorsal striatum. UPSIT-AD10 scores were significantly lower in the patient (5.8+/-2.1) compared to the control group (8.6+/-2.4) (t=5.8, P<0.0001). However, UPSIT-AD10 performance in the PD patients did not correlate with striatal or mesolimbic DAT activity. Hyposmia in PD and AD overlap and supposed Alzheimer-selective smell screening tests may not be specific for AD. However, the supposed AD-selective hyposmia scores in PD did not correlate with cerebral DAT binding and may reflect a non-dopaminergic olfactory mechanism."}
{"id": "19327399", "title": "HIV-1 gp120 neurotoxicity proximally and at a distance from the point of exposure: protection by rSV40 delivery of antioxidant enzymes.", "content": "HIV-1 gp120 neurotoxicity proximally and at a distance from the point of exposure: protection by rSV40 delivery of antioxidant enzymes. Toxicity of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (gp120) for substantia nigra (SN) neurons may contribute to the Parkinsonian manifestations often seen in HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD). We studied the neurotoxicity of gp120 for dopaminergic neurons and potential neuroprotection by antioxidant gene delivery. Rats were injected stereotaxically into their caudate-putamen (CP); CP and (substantia nigra) SN neuron loss was quantified. The area of neuron loss extended several millimeters from the injection site, approximately 35% of the CP area. SN neurons, outside of this area of direct neurotoxicity, were also severely affected. Dopaminergic SN neurons (expressing tyrosine hydroxylase, TH, in the SN and dopamine transporter, DAT, in the CP) were mostly affected: intra-CP gp120 caused approximately 50% DAT+ SN neuron loss. Prior intra-CP gene delivery of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) or glutathione peroxidase (GPx1) protected SN neurons from intra-CP gp120. Thus, SN dopaminergic neurons are highly sensitive to HIV-1 gp120-induced neurotoxicity, and antioxidant gene delivery, even at a distance, is protective."}
{"id": "19325033", "title": "HIV-1 Tat protein-induced rapid and reversible decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake: dissociation of [3H]dopamine uptake and [3H]2beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane (WIN 35,428) binding in rat striatal synaptosomes.", "content": "HIV-1 Tat protein-induced rapid and reversible decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake: dissociation of [3H]dopamine uptake and [3H]2beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane (WIN 35,428) binding in rat striatal synaptosomes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 Tat protein plays a key role in the pathogenesis of both HIV-1-associated cognitive-motor disorder and drug abuse. Dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) function is strikingly altered in patients with HIV-1-associated dementia and a history of chronic drug abuse. This study is the first in vitro evaluation of potential mechanisms underlying the effects of Tat protein on DAT function. Rat striatal synaptosomes were incubated with recombinant Tat(1-86) protein, and [(3)H]DA uptake and the binding of [(3)H]2beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane (WIN 35,428) and [(3)H]1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)-piperazine (GBR 12935) were determined. Tat decreased [(3)H]DA uptake, [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding, and [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding in a time-dependent manner. The potency of Tat for inhibiting [(3)H]DA uptake (K(i) = 1.2 microM) was the same as that for inhibiting [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding but 3-fold less than that for inhibiting [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding. Mutant Tat proteins did not alter [(3)H]DA uptake. Kinetic analysis of [(3)H]DA uptake revealed that Tat (1 or 10 microM) decreased the V(max) value and increased the K(m) value in a dose-dependent manner. The V(max) value, decreased by Tat (1 microM), returned to the control level after washout of Tat, indicating that the inhibitory effect of Tat on DA uptake was reversible. Saturation studies revealed that Tat decreased the B(max) value and increased the K(d) value of [(3)H]WIN 35,428 binding, whereas Tat decreased the B(max) value of [(3)H]GBR 12935 binding, without a change in the K(d) value. These findings provide new insight into understanding the pharmacological mechanisms of Tat-induced dysfunction of the DAT in the dopaminergic system in HIV-infected patients."}
{"id": "19324376", "title": "Biobanks for biomarkers in neurological disorders: the Da Vinci bridge for optimal clinico-pathological connection.", "content": "Biobanks for biomarkers in neurological disorders: the Da Vinci bridge for optimal clinico-pathological connection. The diagnosis of dementing disorders is severely hampered by the absence of reliable biomarkers that can be measured in body fluids such as blood, urine and cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF). Searching for biomarkers is hampered by the huge variability between individuals; the use of autopsy specimens induces significant data fluctuation due to rapid post-mortem changes in the specimens. The search for biomarkers obtained from living donors has contributed already a vast amount of data. The role of amyloid and tau as early diagnostic markers in the pathology of dementia has been reported in differential involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD), late onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD), Lewy Body dementia (DLBD), Vascular dementia, fronto-temporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and non neurological controls. In the coming decennia, brain/tissue/biobanks (BTB-banks) will have a major role in identifying the relevant biomarkers and will collect, preserve and type RNA and DNA extracted from brain/tissue/body fluids in order to update the pathological hallmarks of dementing disorders. The present paper reviews and compares the currently known/clinically applied biomarkers in dementia which can be identified and incorporated into clinical drug trials and elucidate proposed mechanisms of disease and drug action. Furthermore, the review screens a panel of biomarkers used for early and differential diagnosis and comments on the validity of these biomarkers in reflecting the typical hallmarks of neurological disorders."}
{"id": "19318265", "title": "Voxel-based analysis of Tc-99m ECD brain perfusion SPECT in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus.", "content": "Voxel-based analysis of Tc-99m ECD brain perfusion SPECT in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus. Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is a reversible dementia characterized by gait disturbance, incontinence and dementia. This study investigates the neuropsychological characteristics and changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with iNPH. Ten patients who met the criteria of probable iNPH and 13 normal control subjects were evaluated. The general cognitive function and detailed neuropsychological functions were measured by K-MMSE and comprehensive neuropsychological battery. Tc-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimmer (Tc-99m-ECD) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed to measure the rCBF and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) and statistical probabilistic brain anatomic map (SPAM) was applied to the objective analysis of SPECT data. On the neuropsychological examination, all the patients showed abnormality in memory, psychomotor speed and frontal executive function. SPM analysis of SPECT images revealed that rCBF in bilateral thalami, right prefrontal area, bilateral anterior and posterior cingulate gyri, right caudate nucleus, and left parahippocampal gyrus was significantly decreased in patients with iNPH compared to normal controls (uncorrected P<0.005). In SPAM analysis, rCBF reduction was observed in bilateral prefrontal area, anterior, posterior cingulate gyri and caudate nuclei. We have found that rCBF changes occurred predominantly in prefrontal and subcortical areas, the changes were associated with frontal subcortical circuit, and the affected frontal subcortical circuit may contribute to the cognitive decline seen in the iNPH patients. The reduction of rCBF and clinical cognitive impairment are closely connected in patients with iNPH."}
{"id": "19280102", "title": "Depression and psychiatric symptoms preceding onset of dementia in a family with early-onset Alzheimer disease with a novel PSEN1 mutation.", "content": "Depression and psychiatric symptoms preceding onset of dementia in a family with early-onset Alzheimer disease with a novel PSEN1 mutation."}
{"id": "19276787", "title": "Initially unrecognized dementia in a young man with neurosyphilis.", "content": "Initially unrecognized dementia in a young man with neurosyphilis. In general paresis, the invading spirochetes destruct the neurons resulting in impairments in memory, intellect, affect, and judgment of the infected patients. If neurosyphilis is diagnosed early enough, a timely effective treatment may not only prevent further progression of the disease but also allow complete recovery. We report a 35-year-old man with rapid cognitive deterioration. Neurotic depression with dementia was initially diagnosed and the patient was treated with antidepressants, with a poor response. Neurosyphilis with general paresis was diagnosed 1 year later. A 2-week course of intensive treatment with penicillin G was started. Persistent dementia and progressive brain atrophy were found 6 months later, despite an improved cerebrospinal fluid profile and cerebral blood flow indicated by serial single-photon emission computed tomography. This case underscores the importance of early diagnosis of neurosyphilis, and the clinicians should alert the possibility of neurosyphilis in patients who present with dementia."}
{"id": "19276101", "title": "Olfaction in patients with suspected parkinsonism and scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficit (SWEDDs).", "content": "Olfaction in patients with suspected parkinsonism and scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficit (SWEDDs). Positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography scanning have 87-94% sensitivity and 80-100% specificity to differentiate patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) from control subjects and patients with essential (ET) or atypical tremor. More than 10% of patients diagnosed as early PD can have scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficiency (SWEDDs). This study investigated whether smell tests can help identify possible cases with SWEDDs. The 40 item University of Pennsylvania Smell Test (UPSIT) was used to evaluate the sense of smell in 21 SWEDDs patients. Twenty-six ET patients, 16 patients with a diagnosis of idiopathic adult onset dystonia (D), 191 non-demented PD patients and 136 control subjects were also tested. Multiple regression analyses were used to compare the mean UPSIT score in the SWEDDs group with the other four groups (ET, D, PD and controls) after adjusting for the effects of relevant covariates. The mean UPSIT score for the SWEDDs group was greater than in the PD group (p<0.001) and not different from the mean UPSIT in the control (p = 0.7), ET (p = 0.4) or D (p = 0.9) groups. Smell tests indicated a high probability of PD in only 23.8% of SWEDDs as opposed to 85.3% of PD patients. In a patient with suspected PD, a high PD probability on smell testing favours the diagnosis of PD, and a low PD probability strengthens the indication for dopamine transporter imaging."}
{"id": "19235928", "title": "Amnestic mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a brain perfusion SPECT study.", "content": "Amnestic mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a brain perfusion SPECT study. The purpose of this study was to investigate cortical dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with amnestic deficit (PD-MCI). Perfusion single photon emission computed tomography was performed in 15 PD-MCI patients and compared (statistical parametric mapping [SPM2]) with three groups, i.e., healthy subjects (CTR), cognitively intact PD patients (PD), and common amnestic MCI patients (aMCI). Age, depression, and UPDRS-III scores were considered as confounding variables. PD-MCI group (P < 0.05, false discovery rate-corrected for multiple comparisons) showed relative hypoperfusion in bilateral posterior parietal lobe and in right occipital lobe in comparison to CTR. As compared to aMCI, MCI-PD demonstrated hypoperfusion in bilateral posterior parietal and occipital areas, mainly right cuneus and angular gyrus, and left precuneus and middle occipital gyrus. With a less conservative threshold (uncorrected P < 0.01), MCI-PD showed hypoperfusion in a left parietal region, mainly including precuneus and inferior parietal lobule, and in a right temporal-parietal-occipital region, including middle occipital and superior temporal gyri, and cuneus-precuneus, as compared to PD. aMCI versus PD-MCI showed hypoperfusion in bilateral medial temporal lobe, anterior cingulate, and left orbitofrontal cortex. PD-MCI patients with amnestic deficit showed cortical dysfunction in bilateral posterior parietal and occipital lobes, a pattern that can be especially recognized versus both controls and common aMCI patients, and to a lesser extent versus cognitively intact PD. The relevance of this pattern in predicting dementia should be evaluated in longitudinal studies."}
{"id": "19235789", "title": "Investigation of dopamine receptors in susceptibility to behavioural and psychological symptoms in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Investigation of dopamine receptors in susceptibility to behavioural and psychological symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients commonly suffer from behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). A genetic component to the development of BPSD in AD has been supported. Polymorphisms within dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2, DRD3 and DRD4 have previously been investigated in a few interesting studies that are reviewed here and extended using our patient cohort. Our large cohort of 395 probable AD patients had longitudinal information on the BPSD (Neuropsychiatric Inventory), which was used to dichotomise patients into whether they had ever suffered from a given symptom within the study period, or not. These measures were related to the DRD1 (A-48G), DRD2 (ser311cys; C-ins/del), DRD3 (ser9gly) and DRD4 (VNTR) genotype and allele frequencies. Associations were revealed between DRD3 and elation, and between DRD4 with agitation/aggression and with depression; however, these findings do not remain significant after correction for multiple testing. No associations were found with the other genetic variants and these symptoms and no associations were observed between any of the polymorphic variants examined and delusions, hallucinations, psychosis and aberrant motor behaviour. Our data, in combination with a review of the literature, reveal a potential role for the VNTR variant of DRD4 in the development of depression in AD patients. The findings presented here need to be replicated in large, well characterised longitudinal cohorts."}
{"id": "19227895", "title": "[A case of anti-gliadin-antibody-positive cerebellar ataxia effectively treated with intravenous immunoglobulin in which voxel-based morphometry and FineSRT were diagnostically useful].", "content": "[A case of anti-gliadin-antibody-positive cerebellar ataxia effectively treated with intravenous immunoglobulin in which voxel-based morphometry and FineSRT were diagnostically useful]. We present the case of a 51-year-old man with a 5-year history of slowly progressive gait ataxia and dysarthria who showed a wide-based gait requiring assistance. The patient's score on the Revised Hasegawa Dementia Scale (HDS-R) was 22/30 and constructional apraxia was also evident. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed 3 cells/microl, and the protein concentration was 58 mg/dl. Brain MRI showed no evidence of cerebellar atrophy, and SPECT-eZIS showed no decrease in cerebellar blood flow. However, voxel based morphometry (VBM) and FineSRT revealed cortical cerebellar atrophy and reduced cerebellar blood flow. In addition, the patient tested positive for anti-gliadin (IgA) and anti-SS-A/Ro antibodies, and was thus diagnosed as having autoimmune cerebellar ataxia. The patient showed positive response to intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) and regained the ability to walk unassisted. The HDS-R score also improved to 27/30. If cortical cerebellar atrophy can be diagnosed in the early stages in patients with progressive cerebellar ataxia by imaging techniques such as MRI-VBM and FineSRT, and if such patients test positive for anti-gliadin, anti-GAD or anti-thyroid antibodies, it is possible that they have autoimmune cerebellar ataxia. The commencement of immunotherapy including IVIg should be considered in such"}
{"id": "19213035", "title": "Case report: Adult phenotype of Mulvihill-Smith syndrome.", "content": "Case report: Adult phenotype of Mulvihill-Smith syndrome. Mulvihill-Smith syndrome (MSS) is characterized by premature aging, multiple pigmented nevi, decreased facial subcutaneous fat, microcephaly, short stature, mental retardation and recurrent infections, however the adult phenotype of MSS has yet to be delineated. We report a 28-year-old woman with Mulvihill-Smith syndrome, who had a solid pseudopapillary cystic tumor of her pancreas at age 17 years. Her distinctive sleep pattern includes severe insomnia with disappearance of sleep spindles and K-complexes, persisting muscle tone, and loss of slow wave sleep. The clinical and neurophysiological studies are compatible with agrypnia excitata, a sleep disorder attributable to a dysfunction of the thalamo-limbic system. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography revealed structural and functional deficits in the dorsomedial region of the thalamus and indicated that an alteration in the thalamo-limbic system may underlie the sleep disturbances in MSS. Furthermore, the rapid and severe decline in acquired cognitive function showed the distinct cognitive impairments resembling dementia, including intellectual deficits, memory disorder and executive dysfunction. We posit that an early onset tumor, sleep disorder and cognitive decline are adult manifestations of Mulvihill-Smith syndrome."}
{"id": "19205835", "title": "Comparison of Alzheimer's disease with vascular dementia and non-dementia using specific voxel-based Z score maps.", "content": "Comparison of Alzheimer's disease with vascular dementia and non-dementia using specific voxel-based Z score maps. We investigated the ability to discriminate between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD), and between AD and non-dementia using the program \"easy Z score imaging system\" (eZIS) developed by Matsuda et al., for the diagnosis of very early AD. Of 201 patients, we investigated 12 patients with AD, 10 with VaD, and 9 with non-dementia, who underwent brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography by technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) between February 2005 and September 2006. The sensitivity and specificity of the indicators of specific volume of interest (VOI) analysis, namely, severity, extent, and ratio were evaluated for the distinction of AD from VaD and non-dementia. There was a significant difference in all the criteria for severity, extent, and ratio between AD and non-dementia cases and in the ratio between AD and VaD. Between AD and non-dementia, the sensitivity and specificity of severity were 100% and 45%, respectively, using the cutoff value of 1.19. When using the cutoff value of 14.2 for extent, the sensitivity and specificity were both 100%. Using the cutoff value of 2.22 for ratio, the sensitivity of 42% and specificity of 100% were demonstrated. When comparing AD with VaD, using the cutoff value of 2.22 for ratio, the sensitivity and specificity were 42% and 100%, respectively. Using the cutoff value of 1.5 for ratio, the sensitivity and specificity between AD and VaD were 92% and 80%, respectively, thereby showing the best results. The specific VOI analysis program of AD using specific voxel-based Z score maps is not influenced by interobserver differences among radiologists and is useful to discriminate AD from VaD and non-dementia. However, the setting of the cutoff value at each institution and comparison with original and eZIS images are suggested to distinguish better AD from VaD."}
{"id": "19182480", "title": "Frontal assessment battery and brain perfusion imaging in early dementia.", "content": "Frontal assessment battery and brain perfusion imaging in early dementia. The frontal assessment battery (FAB) is reported to be a useful tool for screening frontal function. However, the neural substrates involved remain to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to identify the brain regions responsible for FAB performance in patients with early dementia. We sought a correlation between FAB scores and brain perfusion. A total of 117 subjects participated in this study (Alzheimer's disease = 51, frontotemporal dementia = 14, vascular dementia = 13, dementia with Lewy bodies = 7, psychiatric disease = 7, mild cognitive impairment = 11, controls = 14). They underwent brain single photon emission computed tomography with (99m)Tc-ethylcisteinate dimer, and we analyzed the data, using a regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) quantification software program, 3DSRT (3-dimensional stereotaxic region of interest template). FAB scores had a moderately positive correlation with left callosomarginal and precentral rCBF. Comparison of rCBF between high- and low-scoring FAB groups revealed that the latter showed significantly lower rCBF in the bilateral callosomarginal and left precentral regions. The results in this study suggest that the FAB mainly reflects the function of the callosomarginal and precentral segments, especially the left side, and that it might be a valid frontal lobe function test."}
{"id": "19182460", "title": "Functional imaging in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease: is it pertinent?", "content": "Functional imaging in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease: is it pertinent? Neuroimaging techniques, namely positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are increasingly used to study mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and its conversion to dementia, as well as early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite an important overlap of the various imaging parameter values between MCI,early AD and controls, some markers may help clinical diagnosis in individual patients. For example,the combination of significantly reduced hippocampal volume and brain hypometabolism in a MCI patient establishes the anatomical and functional features seen in dementia. In association with clinical information, the topographic localization of the hypometabolism will help to precise the type of dementia. Functional brain activation studies using functional MRI and PET are not used for clinical purpose, but they allow to determine the differences between control and pathological states and thus to characterize the functional abnormalities specific to the disease. Finally, the use of biomarkers of the neuropathological lesions constitutes the most promising tool to accurately diagnose MCI and early AD patients."}
{"id": "19151903", "title": "Early detection of patients in the pre demented stage of Alzheimer's disease: the Pre-Al Study.", "content": "Early detection of patients in the pre demented stage of Alzheimer's disease: the Pre-Al Study. The aim of the Pre-Al study is to evaluate and compare the predictive value of different tools for an early identification of Alzheimer's disease. Patients coming for consultation to memory clinics without dementia were included if they had an objective memory or attention trouble assessed by a MMSE score > 25 (with at least one missing item at the words recall) and / or an Isaac set test score < 28. All were examined by a neuropsychological battery (Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test, digit ordering test, WAIS-R digit symbol, Trail making test, Benton visual retention test, verbal fluency, confrontation naming and Baddeley's double task test). A subpopulation received an MRI and SPECT assessment. 251 patients were included (mean age: 72.0 years; mean education duration: 10.9 years). Validation of the predictive tests will be based on the comparison of these tests in patients developing dementia and others, after a follow-up of at least 3 years. This paper presents methodology of the study and the population description."}
{"id": "19148640", "title": "Computer-assisted diagnostic system for neurodegenerative dementia using brain SPECT and 3D-SSP.", "content": "Computer-assisted diagnostic system for neurodegenerative dementia using brain SPECT and 3D-SSP. To develop a computer-assisted automated diagnostic system to distinguish among Alzheimer disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and other degenerative disorders in patients with mild dementia. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images with injection of N-Isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine (IMP) were obtained from patients with mild degenerative dementia. First, datasets from 20 patients mild AD, 15 patients with dementia with DLB, and 17 healthy controls were used to develop an automated diagnosing system based on three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3D-SSP). AD- and DLB-specific regional templates were created using 3D-SSP, and critical Z scores in the templates were established. Datasets from 50 AD patients, 8 DLB patients, and 10 patients with non-AD/DLB type degenerative dementia (5 with frontotemporal dementia and 5 with progressive supranuclear palsy) were then used to test the diagnostic accuracy of the optimized automated system in comparison to the diagnostic interpretation of conventional IMP-SPECT images. These comparisons were performed to differentiate AD and DLB from non-AD/DLB and to distinguish AD from DLB. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. The area under the ROC curve (Az) and the accuracy of the automated diagnosis system were 0.89 and 82%, respectively, for AD/DLB vs. non-AD/DLB patients, and 0.70 and 65%, respectively, for AD vs. DLB patients. The mean Az and the accuracy of the visual inspection were 0.84 and 77%, respectively, for AD/DLB vs. non-AD/DLB patients, and 0.70 and 65%, respectively, for AD vs. DLB patients. The mean Az and the accuracy of the combination of visual inspection and this system were 0.96 and 91%, respectively, for AD/DLB vs. non-AD/DLB patients, and 0.70 and 66%, respectively, for AD vs. DLB patients. The system developed in the present study achieved as good discrimination of AD, DLB, and other degenerative disorders in patients with mild dementia as the commonly performed visual inspection of conventional SPECT images. A combination of visual inspection and this system is helpful in the differential diagnosis of patients with mild dementia."}
{"id": "19142839", "title": "[MCI-plus: mild cognitive impairment with rapid progression. Part II: Biomarkers and research methods].", "content": "[MCI-plus: mild cognitive impairment with rapid progression. Part II: Biomarkers and research methods]. Long-term studies will be pivotal in order to examine the efficacy of preventive and early therapeutic interventions during the preclinical phase of dementia. Biomarkers will be of importance due to the large sample sizes and the necessary logistic efforts, high drop-out rates and slow clinical progression. The validity of functional and even structural imaging methods is currently investigated with early and promising results; it is presently unclear whether conventional csf-markers of Alzheimer's disease (beta-amyloid and tau-proteins) are sufficiently sensitive to monitor the effects of early interventions. It also remains doubtful whether modifications of these methods will ever be useful and available for practical purposes."}
{"id": "19138468", "title": "Omental therapy for primary progressive aphasia with tau negative histopathology: 3 year study.", "content": "Omental therapy for primary progressive aphasia with tau negative histopathology: 3 year study. Omentum transposition surgery (OT) applied to various neurodegenerative disorders has produced clinically significant improvement, which may be due to omentally-derived factors. To evaluate the clinical effect of left hemisphere OT in a primary progressive aphasia (PPA) patient, 3 year follow-up data were analysed. Left hemisphere OT was performed on a 68-year-old male with PPA, characterized by moderate dementia and severe expressive aphasia with relatively preserved comprehension, object recognition and visual-spatial abilities. He was longitudinally assessed with cognitive, functional, behavioral and brain HMPAO SPECT measures pre-OT, at baseline and every 3-6 months for 34 months. All measures improved above baseline for >20 months and persisted at or above baseline for 34 months. Cortical activity increased by a maximum of 21% underneath transposed omentum and in synaptically connected areas, and persisted in >50% of the cortex for at least 12 months. Subjectively, family members observed improved verbal and non-verbal communication. OT produced a sustained, beneficial treatment effect in PPA and warrants further clinical and basic research to identify explanatory factors."}
{"id": "19137294", "title": "Cerebral perfusion (HMPAO-SPECT) in patients with depression with cognitive impairment versus those with mild cognitive impairment and dementia of Alzheimer's type: a semiquantitative and automated evaluation.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion (HMPAO-SPECT) in patients with depression with cognitive impairment versus those with mild cognitive impairment and dementia of Alzheimer's type: a semiquantitative and automated evaluation. Comparative evaluation of regional brain perfusion measured by HMPAO-SPECT of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) and depression with cognitive impairment (DCI). A total of 736 patients were investigated because of suspected cognitive dysfunction. After exclusion of patients with other forms of dementia than DAT or relevant accompanying disorders, SPECT data from 149 MCI, 131 DAT and 127 DCI patients, and 123 controls without any cognitive impairment, were analysed. Relative cerebral blood flow of 34 anatomical regions was assessed with automated analysis software (BRASS). Calculation of global forebrain perfusion discriminated demented from nondemented patients. Compared to controls DCI patients showed hypoperfusion of the thalamus, lentiform nucleus and medial temporal cortex. MCI patients differed significantly from controls concerning perfusion in both hemispheric temporal and parietal areas, and in the (right hemispheric) posterior part of the cingulate gyrus. MCI and DCI patients differed in the parietal, temporal superior and right hemispheric cingulate gyrus posterior cortices. Global forebrain and regional perfusion was more extensively reduced in DAT patients and discriminated them from controls, and MCI and DCI patients. Frontal perfusion disturbance was only present in DAT patients. Automated analysis of HMPAO-SPECT data from MCI patients showed significant perfusion deficits in regions also involved in DAT patients, but ROC analysis demonstrated only moderate sensitivity and specificity for differentiating DAT patients from controls and DCI patients. Frontal hypoperfusion seems to correspond with conversion from MCI to DAT. Finally, the results in DCI patients again raise the question of depression as an early symptom of neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "19131852", "title": "Molecular imaging studies in Parkinson disease: reducing diagnostic uncertainty.", "content": "Molecular imaging studies in Parkinson disease: reducing diagnostic uncertainty. The diagnosis of Parkinson disease (PD) is based on clinical criteria but misdiagnosis is as high as 25% of cases as confirmed by anatomic-pathologic studies. Since the introduction of in vivo molecular imaging techniques using Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography and Positron Emission Tomography, the diagnosis of PD became more reliable by assessing dopaminergic and even nondopaminergic systems. The purpose of this article is to critically review the current data on molecular neuroimaging focusing on the nigrostriatal circuitry and providing useful information on the role of these new imaging techniques in the management of clinically unclear cases of PD. Patients with essential tremor, psychogenic Parkinsonism or drug-induced Parkinsonism can be differentiated from PD in doubtful situations using molecular imaging techniques evaluating striatal dopamine transporters (DAT). However, in patients with vascular Parkinsonism, atypical Parkinsonism and Parkinsonism associated with dementia DAT scans have less diagnostic usefulness. Scans with non-DAT tracers (ie, D2 dopamine receptors) are necessary together with long-term clinical follow-up, and rescans to improve diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "19129703", "title": "Parkinson's disease with and without REM sleep behaviour disorder: are there any clinical differences?", "content": "Parkinson's disease with and without REM sleep behaviour disorder: are there any clinical differences? Rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder (RBD) may serve as a useful indicator to approach Parkinson's disease (PD); however, PD patients do not always exhibit RBD. We wondered whether the presence of RBD would be reflected in the expansion of PD lesions and represent the same PD entity. We examined the clinical differences between PD with and without RBD and studied the frequency of RBD-like symptoms (RBD-s) and clinical differences in 150 PD patients, including 81 patients (54.0%) who satisfied the International Classification of Sleep Disorders, Revised, minimum clinical criteria for RBD. RBD-s preceding the appearance of parkinsonism were found in 44.4% of patients. Statistically, the presence of RBD-s was associated with ages above 65 years, male gender, constipation, dopa-induced dyskinesia and 'sleep attack', with odds ratios of 3.709, 2.469, 2.184, 5.046 and 6.562, respectively. No differences were found between the 2 groups with regard to symptoms at PD onset, disease duration, Hoehn-Yahr stage, hallucination, dementia, wearing-off, orthostatic hypotension, cerebral blood flow and antiparkinsonism drugs. In the early stage, RBD and autonomic system dysfunction are important factors in the progression of PD."}
{"id": "19129547", "title": "Quetiapine effective in treatment of inappropriate sexual behavior of lewy body disease with predominant frontal lobe signs.", "content": "Quetiapine effective in treatment of inappropriate sexual behavior of lewy body disease with predominant frontal lobe signs. Dementia of Lewy body disease is the second most common degenerative cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease, among all the dementias. The core features are a progressive dementia, fluctuations in cognitive functions, visual hallucinations, and spontaneous parkinsonism. Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, severe neuroleptic sensitivity, and low dopamine transporter uptake in basal ganglia are other suggestive features. Behavioral abnormalities are commonly present in the form of aggressive behavior, irritability, and uninhibited behaviors. These are mostly seen in the advanced stages of dementia. However, inappropriate sexual behavior is uncommonly seen in such cases. Three types of inappropriate sexual behaviors commonly found in cases of dementia are sex talks, sexual acts, and implied sexual acts. Such inappropriate sexual behaviors have not been described adequately in dementia of Lewy body disease. We report inappropriate sexual behaviors in a case of dementia of Lewy body disease, which improved rapidly after treatment with quetiapine."}
{"id": "19124140", "title": "[Homonymous hemianopia and posterior cortical atrophy].", "content": "[Homonymous hemianopia and posterior cortical atrophy]. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is a clinically and radiologically defined syndrome, in which predominant symptoms focus on higher visual dysfunction with progressive course and association with cortical atrophy or hypometabolism that predominates in the posterior part of the hemispheres. Homonymous hemianopia (HH) has rarely been described in this syndrome. We report on six patients (four females, two males, aged 63 to 80) referred for visual disorder which led to demonstration of HH using perimetry testing. These patients were followed for 1 to 5 years after discovery of HH. Brain imaging with MRI or CT scan was obtained in the six cases and a SPECT scan was performed in four cases. HH was left-sided in four cases and right-sided in two cases. Associated symptoms related to higher visual dysfunction were simultagnosia, alone or as part of a full Balint's syndrome, alexia, constructional apraxia, dressing apraxia, visual form agnosia, prosopagnosia and hemispatial neglect. These symptoms were mild at onset but invariably worsened with disease progression. Dementia eventually developed in all cases. The clinical diagnosis was probable Alzheimer's disease in five cases and corticobasal degeneration in one case. Radiology showed posterior cortex atrophy in all cases as well as reduced cerebral blood flow in the same region, with an asymmetrical pattern compatible with the side of HH. Elementary cortical lesions in PCA can develop mainly in the associative visual areas and even in the primary visual area, resulting in HH. HH has rarely been documented in PCA, but its prevalence would probably be higher if systematic search was conducted. Apparently isolated HH of insidious onset should suggest PCA and lead to neuropsychological testing and search for discrete atrophic changes of the posterior cortex on MRI as well as for metabolic alterations with SPECT or PET."}
{"id": "19118323", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in possible dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in possible dementia with Lewy bodies. (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) can help in the differential diagnosis of probable dementia with Lewy bodies (Lewy body dementia) and Alzheimer's disease. Our aim was to determine the accuracy of (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT in diagnosing people with possible dementia with Lewy bodies. We undertook a 12-month follow-up of 325 individuals with probable or possible Lewy body or non-Lewy body dementia who had previously undergone (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT. A consensus panel, masked to SPECT findings, established diagnosis at 12 months in 264 people. Of 44 people with possible dementia with Lewy bodies at baseline, at follow-up the diagnosis for 19 people was probable dementia with Lewy bodies (43%), in 7 people non-Lewy body dementia (16%) and for 18 individuals it remained possible dementia with Lewy bodies (41%). Of the 19 who at follow-up were diagnosed with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, 12 had abnormal scans at baseline (sensitivity 63%); all 7 individuals with a possible diagnosis who were diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease at follow-up had normal scans (specificity 100%). Our findings confirm the diagnostic accuracy of (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT in distinguishing Lewy body from non-Lewy body dementia and also suggest a clinically useful role in diagnostically uncertain cases, as an abnormal scan in a person with possible dementia with Lewy bodies is strongly suggestive of dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "19070491", "title": "Upper motor neuron and extra-motor neuron involvement in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a clinical and brain imaging review.", "content": "Upper motor neuron and extra-motor neuron involvement in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a clinical and brain imaging review. There is an ongoing discussion whether ALS is primarily a disease of upper motor neurons or lower motor neurons. We undertook a review to assess how new insights have contributed to solve this controversy. For this purpose we selected relevant publications from 1995 onwards focussing on (1) primary targets and disease progression in ALS and variants of ALS, (2) brain imaging markers for upper motor neuron lesion, and (3) evidence for ALS being a multisystem disorder. Clinically, upper motor and lower motor neuron symptoms can occur in any order over time. Brain imaging markers show upper motor neuron involvement in early disease. Overlap syndromes of ALS and dementia, and involvement of autonomic and sensory nerves occur frequently. PET/SPECT scans, functional MRI and voxel based morphometry studies clearly show abnormalities in extra-motor areas of the brain. Pathologically, the 43 kDa TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP-43) provides a clue to these overlapping disorders. In conclusion, evidence accumulates that ALS is a multisystem disorder rather than a pure lower and/or upper motor neuron disorder."}
{"id": "19001354", "title": "Clinical picture of a patient with a novel PSEN1 mutation (L424V).", "content": "Clinical picture of a patient with a novel PSEN1 mutation (L424V). Young onset dementia raises concern about familial and non degenerative dementias. We describe a patient with early dementia. At the age of 26, a woman developed symptoms of anorexia nervosa, at 30 a memory and attention deficit, and at 34 abnormal behavior with impulsivity, aggression, and dysexecutive disorder. At 36 she showed aphasia, stereotyped behavior, hyperreflexia, grasping reflex, urinary incontinence, myoclonus, and seizures. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid were normal. Brain computed tomography and single photon emission computed tomography showed diffuse cortico-subcortical atrophy and frontotemporoparietal hypoperfusion. A Leu424Val mutation was present in PSEN1 gene. PSEN1 mutations can produce Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies phenotypes, or a combination of them. It has been proposed that the mutation type and location may influence the molecular pathogenesis and thus PSEN1 would represent a molecular connexion between these entities. This case shows a novel PSEN1 mutation with outstanding amnesic and frontal symptoms."}
{"id": "18991499", "title": "Noninvasive biomarkers in normal pressure hydrocephalus: evidence for the role of neuroimaging.", "content": "Noninvasive biomarkers in normal pressure hydrocephalus: evidence for the role of neuroimaging. Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) represents a treatable form of dementia. Recent estimates of the incidence of this condition are in the region of 5% of patients with dementia. The symptoms of NPH can vary among individuals and may be confused with those of patients with multi-infarct dementia, dementia of the Alzheimer type, or even Parkinson disease. Traditionally the diagnosis of NPH could only be confirmed postoperatively by a favorable outcome to surgical diversion of CSF. The object of this literature review was to examine the role of structural and functional imaging in providing biomarkers of favorable surgical outcome. A Medline search was undertaken for the years 1980-2006, using the following terms: normal pressure hydrocephalus, adult hydrocephalus, chronic hydrocephalus, imaging, neuroimaging, imaging studies, outcomes, surgical outcomes, prognosis, prognostic value, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy. The query revealed 16 studies that correlated imaging with surgical outcomes offering accuracy results. Three studies fulfilled the statistical criteria of a biomarker. A dementia Alzheimer-type pattern on SPECT in patients with idiopathic NPH, the presence of CSF flow void on MR imaging, and the N-acetylaspartate/choline ratio in patients with the secondary form are able to predict surgical outcomes with high accuracy. There is at present Level A evidence for using MR spectroscopy in patients with secondary NPH, and Level B evidence for using SPECT and phase-contrast MR imaging to select patients with idiopathic NPH for shunt placement. The studies, however, need to be repeated by other groups. The current work should act as a platform to design further studies with larger sample sizes."}
{"id": "18760427", "title": "[Semantic dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].", "content": "[Semantic dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis]. The association semantic dementia-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis has been rarely reported in the literature. We report a case study of a patient with a severe prosopagnosia in relation with semantic dementia associated, 12 months later, with a motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "19899565", "title": "[Diagnostic difficulties linked to frontotemporal dementia--case study].", "content": "[Diagnostic difficulties linked to frontotemporal dementia--case study]. The authors present the case study of a 47-year-old woman affected by frontotemporal dementia with a 19-year history of mental disorders. Due to increasing intensity of affective and behavioural disorders and spontaneous suicidal attempts the patient was hospitalized 14 times in psychiatric wards. Despite the treatment with drugs of different groups was conducted, no stable positive outcome was obtained."}
{"id": "19641246", "title": "Agraphia in bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: not merely a consequence of dementia or aphasia.", "content": "Agraphia in bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: not merely a consequence of dementia or aphasia. The clinical significance and characteristics of writing errors in bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are not clear. We retrospectively investigated writing samples in 19 patients with bulbar-onset ALS without preceding extra-motor symptoms. Co-development of dementia and/or aphasia was also explored and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images of the brain were reviewed. As a result, a high prevalence of writing errors (15 of the 19 patients) was found. Of note were isolated writing errors with neither dementia nor aphasia verified in 2 patients whose dysarthria was mild enough to evaluate spoken language. The remaining 13 patients also showed agraphia, but either dysarthria was too severe to evaluate aphasia or frontotemporal dementia (FTD)-like features co-existed. Of these patients, one who initially lacked dementia subsequently developed FTD-like features. The frequent writing errors were omission or substitution of kana letters and syntactic errors. SPECT images showed bilateral or left-side dominant hypoperfusion in the frontotemporal lobes as a consistent feature. These results show that patients with bulbar-onset ALS frequently exhibit agraphic writing errors and that these are not merely consequences of dementia or aphasia. However, these writing errors may indicate the involvement of frontotemporal language-related areas beyond the primary motor cortex."}
{"id": "19213202", "title": "[Recognition and treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementias: lessons from the CATIE-AD study].", "content": "[Recognition and treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementias: lessons from the CATIE-AD study]. The prevalence of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) varies between 20-90%, depending on the care settings and severity of the dementia syndrome. BPSD is the major reason for referrals to secondary care. It exacerbates the dementia-associated morbidity and mortality rates. Furthermore, while BPSD is not a properly defined syndrome, it frequently induces psychic and somatic complaints in caregivers. The social and economic impacts of the BPSD far outweigh the importance of the cognitive symptoms of dementia. The aim of this review is to present the most recent findings regarding the recognition, differential diagnosis, aetiology, and pathomechanism of BPSD with a special focus on the local therapeutic possibilities with the atypical antipsychotics. Of utmost importance is the process of identifying the complex bio-psycho-social aetiological factors in parallel with defining the treatment strategies. Only after the correct recognition of the potential aetiology, non-pharmacological interventions are recommended to start with as first choice treatment in mild and mild-to-moderate BPSD, while in moderate and severe cases pharmacotherapeutic approaches are recommended from the start. Recent findings of neuropathological, neurochemical and neuroimaging studies yielded unequivocal evidence that the BPSD symptoms are not a consequence of a single neurotransmitter imbalance, but rather of disproportionate level changes in biogenic amines, excitatory and inhibitory transmitters in the central nervous system. Consequently, the available pharmacotherapy should target the balancing of the dopaminergic, serotoninergic, noradrenergic, excitatory and GABAergic neurotransmission by using antipsychotics, antidepressants, phase-prophylactic agents, and benzodiazepines. Several clinical studies have proven the efficacy of atypical antipsychotics that target multiple neurotransmitter systems in treating BPSD. The first results of the CATIE-AD study also confirm these findings and indicate that the atypical antipsychotics are effective in controlling anger, aggression and delusions in Alzheimer's disease, while cognitive symptoms, quality of life and care needs are not improved."}
{"id": "19198144", "title": "[Early symptoms of frontotemporal lobar degeneration].", "content": "[Early symptoms of frontotemporal lobar degeneration]. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is the third most common cause of cortical dementia, following Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy body. Clinical criteria of FTLD were reviewed, and the initial symptoms, early neuropsychological and behavioral characteristics were also reviewed. In our own 205 ALS patients, 20 patients were dementia with ALS. In those cases, early and progressive loss of social awareness and insight and paragraphia were frequently observed. In ALS patients, especially patients with bulbar symptoms, we must carefully examine the mental functions and study the brains with MRI and SPECT/PET for detection of frontotemporal dysfunction."}
{"id": "19198105", "title": "[Neuroimaging for diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging for diagnosis of dementia]."}
{"id": "19179793", "title": "[Localized cerebral blood flow changes in response to ADL-related vitality in elderly patients with dementia using single photon emission computed tomography].", "content": "[Localized cerebral blood flow changes in response to ADL-related vitality in elderly patients with dementia using single photon emission computed tomography]. To clarify the area in the brain related to responsible for vitality and volition. We studied 123 outpatients (39 men, 84 women, 77.7+/-6.7 years old) who visited the Center for comprehensive care on memory disorders in Kyorin University Hospital. No patients were prescribed with anti-depressants, anti-anxiety agents, psychomimetics, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, Chinese herbal medicines or cerebrovascular circulation modifying drugs. Patients with frontotemporal dementia or depression were excluded. ADL-related vitality and volition was measured by a vitality index. Cerebral brain blood flow was measured by single photon emission computed tomography (99mTc-ECD SPECT). Relative blood flow changes were calculated by Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). Absolute blood flow changes were calculated by a three-dimensional stereotaxic ROI template on anatomically standardised 99mTc-ECD SPECT (3D SRT). Statistically significant correlations between semi-quantitatively measured scores of vitality index and blood flow changes in SPM and 3D-SRT were tested and displayed on a brain map. Analysis of relative and absolute blood flow showed that the common responsible area in the brain related to vitality was the frontal lobe, fronto-cingulate gyrus, temporal lobe, basal ganglia (caudate nucleus) and thalamus. Blood flow changes in the orbital gyrus were strongly correlated with vitality index specially in the frontal lobe. ADL-related vitality is affected mainly by the blood flow in the frontal-subcortical circuit. However, deep white matter was also important to determine vitality and volition."}
{"id": "19166452", "title": "Is Charles Bonnet syndrome an early stage of dementia with Lewy bodies?", "content": "Is Charles Bonnet syndrome an early stage of dementia with Lewy bodies?"}
{"id": "19142710", "title": "Value of analyzing deep gray matter and occipital lobe perfusion to differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Value of analyzing deep gray matter and occipital lobe perfusion to differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is generally characterized by a decrease in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the occipital lobe. However, not all patients with DLB have this feature. We explored characteristics of rCBF pattern changes to improve the identification of DLB, in addition to occipital hypoperfusion. The study population comprised 30 patients with probable DLB and 49 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) who underwent single-photon emission computed tomography. The data were analyzed using Neurological Statistical Image Analysis Software (NEUROSTAT). We established a template of the region of interest (ROI) presenting the parietal lobe, posterior cingulate, striatum, thalamus, and occipital lobe on the standard brain atlas. We then compared the mean Z scores in each ROI between DLB and AD. Moreover, we investigated the value of analyzing relative rCBF changes in both the deep gray matter and occipital lobe in differentiating DLB from AD. The DLB group showed a significant relative rCBF increase in the bilateral striatum and thalamus, and a significant relative rCBF decrease in the bilateral occipital lobe when compared with the AD group. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis revealed that determining the hyperperfusion in the thalamus together with the hypoperfusion in the occipital lobe enabled a more accurate differentiation between DLB and AD than studying individual areas. Studying the relative increase of rCBF in the deep gray matter, and the relative decrease of that in the occipital lobe achieved a high differentiation between DLB and AD. This suggests that determining both an increase and a decrease in rCBF pattern may be important in differentiating between the two diseases."}
{"id": "19090317", "title": "Subclinical REM sleep behavior disorder and its clinical and research implications.", "content": "Subclinical REM sleep behavior disorder and its clinical and research implications."}
{"id": "19081458", "title": "[Dementia following bipolar disorder].", "content": "[Dementia following bipolar disorder]. Converging evidence suggests that people with bipolar disorder (BPD) exhibit persistent cognitive impairment independently from the emotional state. In old age BPD, the cognitive decline is more severe and can fulfill the criteria of dementia. However, the characteristics of bipolar disorder dementia are still unknown. The aim of the study was to characterise the cognitive and imaging profile of the dementia following bipolar disorder. Patients fulfilling criteria of dementia and followed-up in the memory unit for at least two years were included. Patients with substance abuse were excluded. A battery of specific (assessing verbal memory, attention, frontal executive function, construction and visuospatial impairment), and global (MMSE and Mattis dementia rating scale) neuropsychological tests, behavioural assessment using the frontotemporal behavioural scale, MRI and HMPAO-SPECT imaging were performed in all patients during euthymic state. We included 13 patients with bipolar disorder (9W/4M). The mean age was 70.8 years (+/-7.7). Dementia began in average 29.2 years (+/-10.1) after the onset of the bipolar disorder. The mean score of MMSE was 24.0 (+/-4.3). The mean score of the Mattis dementia rating scale was 122.5 (+/-8.9). After an average of 6.1 years (+/-2.8) of follow-up, the mean score of MMSE was 23.5 (+/-3.2). The annual MMSE score decrease was of 0.5 (+/-4.4) per year. In more than 75% of the patients, Trail-Making Test-part B, Go-nogo test, Stroop test, delayed free recall in verbal explicit long-term memory test, category fluency tasks and code test were impaired. In more than 50% of patients, free recall, delayed cued recall, clock test, visuospatial battery and temporal orientation were impaired. On the other hand, spatial orientation and recognition were within the standards. The mean of the BREF score was 10.6 (+/-3.2). A moderate frontal behavioural syndrome was observed, but never persistent hallucinations. Seven patients had been treated with lithium and seven with antipsychotics, but none during the neurological assessment. Moderate extrapyramidal signs were reported in 10 patients, of which the seven patients treated in the past with antipsychotics. MRI showed no focal atrophy and no vascular lesions. Functional imaging conducted in 10 patients always showed uptake decrease in the frontotemporal regions and sometimes in the parietal region too. After six years of follow-up, no patient fulfilled the probable criteria for the main dementia, Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. The data of this study support a possible specific dementia postbipolar disorder and not only mild cognitive decline. This hypothesis could be tested in a prospective study. Such dementia could be a main differential diagnosis from long lasting frontotemporal dementia. The pathogenic process of this dementia could also be determined."}
{"id": "19066428", "title": "Differentiation of early-stage Alzheimer's disease from other types of dementia using brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography with easy Z-score imaging system analysis.", "content": "Differentiation of early-stage Alzheimer's disease from other types of dementia using brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography with easy Z-score imaging system analysis. We performed brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to evaluate computer-assisted automated discrimination of early Alzheimer's disease (AD) from other types of dementia using the easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS). eZIS analysis of brain perfusion SPECT images was used in patients with early AD, vascular dementia (VD), mixed dementia (VD + AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and normal controls. Significant changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the volume of interest were assessed in the posterior cingulate gyrus, precuneus and parietal cortices; the severity and extent of decreases in rCBF and the ratio of the extent of the decrease in rCBF to the decrease in whole-brain blood flow (rCBF ratio) were determined. The severity of the decrease in rCBF in AD patients was significantly greater than in VD and FTD patients and controls. The extent of the decrease in rCBF in AD patients was significantly greater than in FTD patients and controls. The rCBF ratio in AD patients was higher than in VD and FTD patients and controls. The eZIS indices, especially the rCBF ratio, may be useful in establishing the differential diagnosis between early-stage AD and FTD or VD, but the differentiation of AD from VD + AD or DLB remains difficult."}
{"id": "19057277", "title": "Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis due to thymic carcinoid.", "content": "Paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis due to thymic carcinoid. Limbic encephalitis is a multifocal inflammatory disorder characterized by personality changes, irritability, memory loss, seizures, and, in some cases, dementia. In many cases, it may occur as a paraneoplastic syndrome and therefore the diagnosis of limbic encephalitis should raise the possibility of occult malignancy. We present a case of limbic encephalitis associated with a thymic carcinoid tumor. To our knowledge the association of thymic carcinoid tumor with paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis has not previously been reported."}
{"id": "19049564", "title": "Is early-onset clinically different from late-onset frontotemporal dementia?", "content": "Is early-onset clinically different from late-onset frontotemporal dementia? Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second most common neurodegenerative dementia in the young age after Alzheimer disease. Recent improvement in diagnostic assessment suggests that it is more common than previously, although with a great heterogeneity in clinical presentation. The different clinical patterns related to age of disease onset in behavioural variant FTD (bvFTD) have been fairly studied. Aim of the study was to evaluate whether age at disease onset modulate the heterogeneity of either cognitive impairment or behavioural disturbances in patients affected by bvFTD. One hundred and thirty-four patients with bvFTD entered the study. Age at onset and demographic characteristics were carefully recorded. Each patient underwent a wide neuropsychological and behavioural standardized assessment, as well as a brain SPECT perfusion imaging study. Behavioural variant FTD were subdivided into four groups according to the age at onset. The four quartile groups did not differ for demographic characteristics and family history for dementia. Global cognitive impairment as well as analysis of the different cognitive domains and behavioural patterns were comparable. These findings provide evidence that the clinical heterogeneity of bvFTD is not explained by age at disease onset. Further studies are needed."}
{"id": "19030774", "title": "Atypical frontotemporal dementia as a new clinical phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease with the PrP-P102L mutation. Description of a previously unreported Italian family.", "content": "Atypical frontotemporal dementia as a new clinical phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease with the PrP-P102L mutation. Description of a previously unreported Italian family. To describe a new dementia phenotype of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) in a previously unreported Italian family. Design Longitudinal clinical and neuropsychological assessment, combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single positron emission tomography (SPECT) and molecular genetic studies. Setting Neuropsychology Laboratory, and Division of Neuropathology and Neurology, \"C. Besta\" National Neurological Institute. Patients and participants Three members of the family. Measurements and results. Standardised neuropsychological tests were used to determine cognitive patterns. The proband had a history of primary dementia characterised by loss of initiative, planning, behaviour control, awareness, language and memory; the two relatives suffered from progressive ataxia. MRI of the demented patient revealed brain atrophy with a hyperintense signal in the frontal cortex; SPECT revealed decreased perfusion in the left temporal and parietal cortex and left thalamus. The two ataxic patients showed cerebellar atrophy with no signs of altered perfusion. Analysis of the PRNP gene showed a proline/leucine substitution at codon 102 in all three patients, associated with methionine/valine heterozygosity at the polymorphic codon 129. Conclusions Primary dementia with prominent frontotemporal signs is a new phenotypical expression of P102L-related GSS that coexists in the same family with the ataxic form of the disease. This remarkable variability suggests that still unidentified genetic or acquired factors may modulate the manifestations of GSS. Genetic examination of the PRNP should be included in the diagnostic work-up of patients with poorly classifiable dementia."}
{"id": "19017782", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of the clock drawing test: the relevance of \"time setting'' in screening for dementia.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of the clock drawing test: the relevance of \"time setting'' in screening for dementia. We aimed to evaluate the overall diagnostic accuracy of clock drawing test methods which require a defined time setting. In addition, diagnostic relevance of time setting was analyzed qualitatively. Clock drawing test performance of 462 consecutive memory clinic patients were analysed by 5 different clock drawing test methods. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value as well as the overall misclassification rate was calculated against a clinical diagnosis of dementia. Further, qualitative analysis of error types was done when subjects failed in the time setting task. All clock drawing test methods that require time setting revealed higher sensitivities and superior negative predictive values as well as overall misclassification rates compared to methods which do not. Failure in the time setting task did not exclusively occur in dementia patients. However, error types which reflect a severely reduced capacity in abstract and conceptual thinking occurred exclusively in dementia patients. Clock drawing test methods that require time setting should be favoured above methods which do not. An additional analysis of time setting errors may yield valuable diagnostic information."}
{"id": "19017781", "title": "Differentiation between dementia and depression among older persons: can the difference between actual and premorbid intelligence be useful?", "content": "Differentiation between dementia and depression among older persons: can the difference between actual and premorbid intelligence be useful? We wanted to investigate whether the difference between actual and premorbid intelligence can be useful to make an early differentiation between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and depression among elderly. A Dutch version of the National Adult Reading Test (NLV), a measure of premorbid IQ and the Raven Coloured Progressive Matrices (RCPM), a measure of actual intelligence were administered to patients with mild (34) and moderate (27) AD, depressed elderly (36) and healthy control subjects (51). Logistic regression analyses revealed that intellectual decline (i.e. subtracting NLV percentile score from RCPM percentile score) was only able to predict group membership when moderate AD patients were compared to depressed and healthy individuals. Our results indicate that intellectual decline may not be a concomitant of elderly depression. However, the differentiation between mild AD and elderly depression can not be made by means of the difference between premorbid (NLV) and actual (RCPM) intelligence scores."}
{"id": "19006193", "title": "Transplanted dopaminergic neurons develop PD pathologic changes: a second case report.", "content": "Transplanted dopaminergic neurons develop PD pathologic changes: a second case report. This report describes pathological changes within the grafted neurons of another patient with Parkinson's disease (PD) who died 14 years posttransplantation. Although numerous healthy appearing grafted neurons were present at this long-term time point, some displayed Lewy bodies as evidenced by alpha-synuclein, ubiquitin, and thioflavin-S staining. Additionally, there was a general loss of dopamine transporter-immunoreactivity in grafted neurons. Some grafted cell displayed a loss of tyrosine hydroxylase. These data support the emerging concept that PD-like pathology is seen in young grafted neurons when they survive long term."}
{"id": "18974648", "title": "Comparison of the usefulness of brain perfusion SPECT and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Comparison of the usefulness of brain perfusion SPECT and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Supportive features in the diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) include occipital hypoperfusion and decreased cardiac uptake of (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG). In this study, we performed both brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in the same subjects and evaluated their sensitivity to detect the characteristic features of DLB. Twenty-five patients with probable DLB (76.8 +/- 5.1 years old, 10 male) underwent (99m)Tc-ethylcysteinate dimer brain perfusion SPECT and (123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. The results of SPECT were analyzed using a qualitative analysis program, easy Z score imaging system (eZIS), and an automated quantitative analysis program, 3DSRT. Qualitative analysis using eZIS demonstrated occipital hypoperfusion in 17 subjects (68%). The quantified mean blood perfusion in the occipital segment on the 3DSRT template was 40.7 +/- 5.03 ml/100 g/min (right) and 40.5 +/- 5.38 ml/100 g/min (left), and in 19 DLB patients these values were below the normal limit. Twenty-four of 25 subjects (96%) had decreased cardiac MIBG uptake in the delayed image. MIBG myocardial scintigraphy was superior to brain perfusion SPECT in detecting a characteristic feature of DLB. Our results suggest that combining SPECT and MIBG scintigraphy could increase the accuracy of clinical diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "18949971", "title": "[1231-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) scintigraphy in the differential diagnosis of movement disorders].", "content": "[1231-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) scintigraphy in the differential diagnosis of movement disorders]. The diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) remains mostly clinical. Nevertheless, differentiating IPD from essential tremor or other parkinsonian syndromes solely by clinical examination can be challenging in some cases, especially in the early stage of the disease. The introduction of new isotopic functional imaging techniques, and more specifically the labelling of dopamine transporter derivatives, has improved the understanding and early detection of some diseases affecting the basal ganglia. Iodine-123-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN), a (presynaptic) dopamine transporter analogue for nuclear medicine imaging, has recently been introduced for the non-invasive differential diagnosis between IPD and essential tremor or secondary (e.g. drug-related) parkinsonian syndromes. DaTSCAN scintigraphy has also demonstrated some usefulness in the evaluation of other neurodegenerative parkinsonian syndromes such as Lewy-body dementia or multiple system atrophy. For this latter however, the DaTSCAN has to be combined with a second scintigraphy, imaging the post-synaptic dopaminergic receptors, such as the D2-ligand 123I-iodobenzamide. Combining DaTSCAN scintigraphy to a functional study of the brain cortical activity using a brain perfusion scintigraphy or to the evaluation of the cardiac adrenergic system by means of a myocardial MIBG scintigraphy (a norepinephrine storage analogue) can also be helpful to refine the diagnosis. Our experience shows that a good collaboration between the neurologist specialized in movement disorders and the nuclear medicine physician is useful, if not mandatory, to optimize the diagnostic performances of DaTSCAN scintigraphy."}
{"id": "18941948", "title": "A novel heterozygous mutation in the NOTCH3 gene causing CADASIL.", "content": "A novel heterozygous mutation in the NOTCH3 gene causing CADASIL. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is an identifiable cause of inherited stroke among young adults, characterised by diffuse leukoencephalopathy with prominent involvement of the temporal poles and external capsule. The disease is caused by mutations in the NOTCH3 gene encoding a NOTCH3 receptor protein. The clinical course is relentlessly progressive with early transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) or strokes, dementia and finally death in the mid-60s. We describe a 40-year-old patient with clinical features of CADASIL and a positive family history who was a carrier of a new mutation at the exon 4 of the NOTCH3 gene: C162R. Regardless of the distinctive clinical and neuroimaging features one of his siblings had been mistakenly diagnosed as suffering from multiple sclerosis (MS), suggesting that the disease can occasionally be misdiagnosed as MS."}
{"id": "18938766", "title": "Frontal Assessment Battery is a marker of dorsolateral and medial frontal functions: A SPECT study in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Frontal Assessment Battery is a marker of dorsolateral and medial frontal functions: A SPECT study in frontotemporal dementia. The objective of this study is to identify the cerebral regions that are assessed by the Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB). Using SPM voxel-based analysis, we looked for correlations between FAB performance and brain SPECT perfusion in 47 patients with the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fv-FTD) recruited by the French FTD research network, a multicentre initiative of French University hospitals with expertise in the field of dementia. A significant correlation was found between FAB performance and perfusion in the medial and dorsolateral frontal cortex bilaterally, independently of age, gender and MMSE. No correlations were observed with orbital frontal or parietal perfusion, in spite of the presence of hypoperfusion in these areas, or with perfusion of any other cortical or subcortical region. These findings confirm that the FAB is an adequate tool for assessing functions related to the dorsolateral and medial frontal cortex, and is thus useful for the evaluation of diseases associated with frontal dysfunction."}
{"id": "18922294", "title": "Neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Neurodegenerative diseases. This article outlines the changes seen using various imaging modalities in the normally aging brain and then discusses in detail the changes seen with various pathologic conditions. Entities discussed include primary degenerative dementias, extrapyramidal system diseases, and vascular dementias."}
{"id": "18855165", "title": "Voxel-based correlation between coregistered single-photon emission computed tomography and dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging in subjects with suspected Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Voxel-based correlation between coregistered single-photon emission computed tomography and dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging in subjects with suspected Alzheimer disease. Current diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is made by clinical, neuropsychologic, and neuroimaging assessments. Neuroimaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) could be valuable in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer disease, as well as in assessing prognosis. To compare SPECT and MRI in a cohort of patients examined for suspected dementia, including patients with no objective cognitive impairment (control group), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer disease (AD). 24 patients, eight with AD, 10 with MCI, and six controls, were investigated with SPECT using (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO, Ceretec; GE Healthcare Ltd., Little Chalsont UK) and dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging (DSC-MRI) with a contrast-enhancing gadobutrol formula (Gadovist; Bayer Schering Pharma, Berlin, Germany). Voxel-based correlation between coregistered SPECT and DSC-MR images was calculated. Region-of-interest (ROI) analyses were then performed in 24 different brain areas using brain registration and analysis of SPECT studies (BRASS; Nuclear Diagnostics AB, Stockholm, Sweden) on both SPECT and DSC-MRI. Voxel-based correlation between coregistered SPECT and DSC-MR showed a high correlation, with a mean correlation coefficient of 0.94. ROI analyses of 24 regions showed significant differences between the control group and AD patients in 10 regions using SPECT and five regions in DSC-MR. SPECT remains superior to DSC-MRI in differentiating normal from pathological perfusion, and DSC-MRI could not replace SPECT in the diagnosis of patients with Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "18841010", "title": "Investigation of the role of the dopamine transporter in susceptibility to behavioural and psychological symptoms of patients with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Investigation of the role of the dopamine transporter in susceptibility to behavioural and psychological symptoms of patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease patients commonly suffer from behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD); a genetic component to the development of BPSD has been demonstrated. Genetic risk factors for other psychiatric disorders have been implicated in BPSD; however, this is the first known investigation of the dopamine transporter (DAT1) gene in BPSD. Our large cohort of 395 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease was dichotomised into whether they had ever suffered from a given symptom over the study period or not, based on longitudinal data using the BPSD (Neuropsychiatric Inventory). These measures were related to the DAT1 3'-untranslated region (UTR) variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism. Potential associations were revealed between the 9-repeat allele and presence of irritability and between the 10-repeat allele and aberrant motor behaviour (AMB); however, these do not remain significant after correction for multiple testing. No associations were observed with delusions, hallucinations, depression, agitation/aggression or elation. Our data suggest that the DAT1 3'-UTR VNTR could play a role in susceptibility to irritability and AMB. The findings presented here require replication in large well-characterised cohorts."}
{"id": "18838952", "title": "Neuroimaging of nonmotor features of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Neuroimaging of nonmotor features of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor symptoms that respond to dopaminergic therapy. However, there is increasing interest in nonmotor PD features such as hyposmia, sleep disorders, dementia, depression, and psychoses. We review neuroimaging studies in nonmotor symptoms of PD and the use of dopaminergic imaging to support screening of nonmotor symptoms for early PD. Neuroimaging data document nonmotor pathophysiologic involvement of systems beyond the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. These neuroimaging studies support a broader view of PD with early involvement in time and wider involvement of monoamine and cortical systems that may provide targets for novel therapies for nonmotor symptoms."}
{"id": "18838108", "title": "Selective hyposmia in Parkinson disease: association with hippocampal dopamine activity.", "content": "Selective hyposmia in Parkinson disease: association with hippocampal dopamine activity. Olfactory dysfunction is common in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) and has been attributed to early pathological deposition of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in primary olfactory centers. However, olfactory deficits do not always worsen over time despite progression of disease raising the possibility of additional pathobiological mechanisms contributing to olfactory functions in PD, such as changes in olfactory neurotransmitter functions. Neurotransmitter changes, such as altered dopaminergic status, may also better explain the selective nature of odor identification deficits in PD. Proper odor identification depends on higher order structures, such as the hippocampus, for olfactory cognitive or memory processing. Using the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT), we previously identified three odors (banana, licorice, dill pickle, labeled as UPSIT-3) that PD subjects most frequently failed to recognize compared to age- and gender-matched controls. We also identified six odors that were equally successfully identified by controls and PD subjects (NPD-Olf6). A ratio of UPSIT-3 divided by NPD-Olf6 scores provides another descriptor of selective hyposmia in PD (\"olfactory ratio\"). In this study we investigated the pathophysiology of hyposmia in PD using dopamine transporter (DAT) PET. Twenty-nine PD patients (Hoehn and Yahr stages I-III; 7f/22m; age 60.2+/-10.8) underwent olfactory testing using the UPSIT and [(11)C]beta-CFT DAT PET. DAT binding potentials (BP) were assessed in the hippocampus, amygdala, ventral and dorsal striatum. We found that correlation coefficients between total UPSIT scores and regional brain DAT BP were highest for the hippocampus (Rs=0.54, P=0.002) and lower for the amygdala (Rs=0.44, P=0.02), ventral (Rs=0.48, P=0.008) and dorsal striatum (Rs=0.39, P=0.03). Correlations were most significant for the selective hyposmia measures and hippocampal DAT: UPSIT-3 (Rs=0.65, P=0.0001) and the olfactory ratio (Rs=0.74, P<0.0001). We conclude that selective hyposmia in PD is more robustly correlated with hippocampal rather than amygdala, ventral or dorsal striatal dopamine innervation as shown by DAT binding. These findings indicate that mesolimbic dopamine innervation of the hippocampus may be a determinant of selective hyposmia in PD."}
{"id": "18836267", "title": "Statistical parametric analysis of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia with small-vessel disease using Tc-HMPAO SPECT.", "content": "Statistical parametric analysis of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia with small-vessel disease using Tc-HMPAO SPECT. Subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (SVD) caused by small-artery disease is a major cause of dementia. It still remains unclear, however, whether SVD may present with localized regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes. We aimed to clarify the local rCBF changes associated with dementia in patients with early-stage SVD. The subjects consisted of 15 patients with early-stage SVD [Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score: 20 +/- 3.5] without apparent brain atrophy (SVD group), 11 patients without dementia with white matter lesions (non-dementia-WML group) and 16 age-matched controls. All the subjects were right-handed and underwent brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), magnetic resonance imaging and cognitive function testing. Statistical analysis of the differences in the SPECT rCBF was performed by SPM2. The degree of severity of the WMLs was evaluated based on the Scheltens rating scale. The results of SPM analysis revealed that the rCBF in the SVD group was significantly decreased in the pulvinar nuclei of the thalamus of both sides as compared with that in the controls, and in the left pulvinar nucleus as compared with that in the non-dementia-WML group. On the other hand, SPM analysis revealed no significant reduction in rCBF in the non-dementia-WML group as compared with that in the controls. The WMLs in the left parietal region were severer in the SVD group than in the non-dementia-WML group. In patients with early-stage SVD without apparent brain atrophy, significant rCBF reduction in the bilateral pulvinar nuclei as compared with that in normal controls, and in the left pulvinar nucleus as compared with that in patients without dementia with WMLs was found."}
{"id": "18830576", "title": "[Novel neuroimaging perspectives in the diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[Novel neuroimaging perspectives in the diagnosis of dementia]. Neuroimaging is an essential part of the etiological diagnosis of dementia. In this review, techniques that enhance the information extracted from routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are presented. In addition, novel techniques of MR acquisition and analyses are reported that may become part of routine diagnostics in the future. These include automated analysis of structural MRI, proton MR spectroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, perfusion MRI, and functional MRI. From nuclear medicine, the key techniques of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and dopamine transporter single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for early and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia and Lewy body dementia and the innovation of amyloid PET are presented."}
{"id": "18802798", "title": "[Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a descriptive study of 42 patients].", "content": "[Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a descriptive study of 42 patients]. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is considered to be the second cause of presenile dementia. In spite of the great interest it has generated over the last few years, few studies have been published in our country. A descriptive retrospective study of 42 patients with FTLD evaluated in our unit during the period 1996-2006 was performed. Thirty one patients presented with frontal variant FTLD (FTD), eigth with non-fluent progressive aphasia and three with semantic dementia. Mean age at onset was 56 years, diagnostic delay 3.5 years and mean survival 6.8 years. 35% had a family history suggestive of dementia. In patients with FTD the clinical expression was a combination of behavioral and personality disorders together with language impairment. Magnetic resonance imaging showed frontal and/or temporal atrophy in 62% of cases and SPECT showed frontal and/or temporal hypoperfusion in 75%. The P301L tau mutation was detected in four patients (two of them siblings) and the A303AfsX57 progranulin mutation in one. Necropsy was performed in five patients, revealing FTLD with ubiquitininmunoreactive inclusions (FTLD-U) and motor neuron disease in two cases, FTLD-U with <cat's-eye> shaped intranuclear inclusions in the case with the progranulin mutation and FTLD tauopathy with predominance of 4R tau in the remaining two, both with the P301L mutation. Our results are similar to those of the great European series. FTLD must be suspected in presenile patients with prominent behavioral and/or language disorders. Neuroimaging supports the diagnosis in the majority of cases. The huge sociofamiliar impact of FTLD, presenile onset, high frequency of familial history of dementia and possibility of genetic study and counseling highlight its clinical relevance."}
{"id": "18797258", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia mimicking dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia mimicking dementia with Lewy bodies. Some patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) have concomitant extrapyramidal symptoms and psychosis and may simultaneously meet consensus criteria for FTD and for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Clinicopathologic studies are helpful in understanding the underlying neurodegenerative process in such cases. To describe clinical and pathologic features of 6 patients with signs and symptoms suggestive of both a diagnosis of FTD and DLB at first clinical presentation, of which 2 patients have now undergone autopsy, and to compare them with autopsy-confirmed FTD and Lewy body disease patients. All 6 patients met published consensus criteria for a diagnosis of both FTD and DLB (5 probable and 1 possible). Clinical symptoms of FTD included personality and behavioral changes, whereas those suggestive of DLB included Parkinsonism, fluctuating cognition, parasomnia, and hallucinations. Five patients underwent single photon emission computed tomography ((99m)Tc) imaging, which showed varying degrees of frontal lobe hypoperfusion. Magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalogram, and electromyogram were not helpful in differentiating FTD from DLB. Histologic examination of the 2 autopsy cases was consistent with a pathologic diagnosis of TDP-43 proteinopathy; specifically frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-only immunoreactive changes, type 1. There were significant differences between these 6 patients and the 2 groups of autopsy confirmed FTD and Lewy body disease patients. We have identified a novel group of FTD patients with clinical features that overlap with DLB, yet seem to be different from both typical FTD and typical Lewy body disease."}
{"id": "18766160", "title": "Dementia in a patient with Fahr's syndrome.", "content": "Dementia in a patient with Fahr's syndrome. Fahr's disease is characterized by idiopathic calcification of the basal ganglia and other brain regions. Clinically it may be accompanied by extrapyramidal and behavioural disorders. In Fahr's syndrome, the same pathology is due to another well-defined disease. Calcium/phosphate metabolic disorders, e.g. hypoparathyroidism or pseudohyperparathyroidism, may be involved. Here, we report a case of 62-year-old man presenting with severe dementia but only mild movement disorders and mild calcium metabolism abnormalities. Extensive brain calcifications together with unevenly distributed perfusion on single photon emission tomography are documented."}
{"id": "18756357", "title": "Usefulness of rCBF analysis in diagnosing Parkinson's disease: supplemental role with MIBG myocardial scintigraphy.", "content": "Usefulness of rCBF analysis in diagnosing Parkinson's disease: supplemental role with MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy is a useful tool for differentiating idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) from parkinsonism (PS) caused by other disorders. However, cardiac MIBG uptake is affected by various causes. Alternatively, hypoperfusion in the occipital lobe of PD is reported recently. The objective is to clarify the correlation between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) alteration and cardiac MIBG uptake in PD. In addition, we examined whether additional brain perfusion analysis improved the differential diagnostic ability for PD from PS when compared with MIBG scintigraphy alone. Forty-nine patients with PD (27 mild groups: Hoehn and Yahr stages I, II; 22 severe groups: Hoehn and Yahr stages III, IV) and 28 patients with PS participated. We compared absolute rCBF values between PD and PS. In addition, we determined correlation between MIBG parameters and each rCBF value. Finally, we compared the diagnostic ability for the differentiation of PD from PS between two diagnostic criteria, each MIBG index abnormality alone [heart-to-mediastinum ratio, H/M (E) < 1.9, H/E (D) < 1.7, washout rate > 40%] and each MIBG index abnormality or occipital lobe hypoperfusion (<36 ml/100 g per min). Absolute rCBF value of occipital lobe was significantly lower in severe PD as compared with PS or mild PD. In the correlation analysis, rCBF of occipital lobe correlated positively with MIBG parameters (H/M). Regarding the diagnostic ability, sensitivity improved by accounting for occipital hypoperfusion as compared with MIBG indices alone. In contrast, neither specificity nor accuracy improved by adding occipital lobe analysis. MIBG parameters (H/M) correlated positively with occipital hypoperfusion in PD. In the differential diagnosis between PD and PS, although its usefulness might be limited, analysis of rCBF in the occipital lobe added to (123)I-MIBG myocardial imaging can be recommended."}
{"id": "18753716", "title": "[Regional cerebral blood flow patterns in extremely elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Regional cerebral blood flow patterns in extremely elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease]. Clinical and pathologic features in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients differ depending on the age of onset. The aim of our study was to compare the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) patterns of younger, elderly, and extremely elderly patients with AD with that of controls to characterize the rCBF patterns in extremely elderly patients with AD. Single photon emission CT (SPECT) was performed in 113 patients with probable AD, including 34 younger (<70 years), 41 elderly (70-84 years), and 38 extremely elderly (>or=85 years) patients divided according to age at examination. The SPECT data were analyzed using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP). No significant differences regarding gender, duration of disease, education, and Mini-Mental State Examination score were found among the groups. As compared with controls, younger and elderly AD demonstrated significant reduction of rCBF in the temporo-parietal areas, posterior cingulate cortices and precunei, which is considered to be a characteristic rCBF pattern in AD. On the other hand, the extremely elderly AD group demonstrated significant reduction of rCBF in the frontal and medial temporal areas, in addition to the temporo-parietal areas, posterior cingulate cortices and precunei, but the reductions were milder than in those in younger and elderly AD groups. The extremely elderly patients with AD showed atypical rCBF patterns in AD compared to younger and elderly patients with AD. Our data suggest that pathological features in extremely elderly AD may be different from those in younger and elderly AD and that diseases different from AD, such as senile dementia of the neurofibrillary tangle type may be clinically diagnosed as extremely elderly AD."}
{"id": "18752700", "title": "A comparison of 99mTc-exametazime and 123I-FP-CIT SPECT imaging in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "A comparison of 99mTc-exametazime and 123I-FP-CIT SPECT imaging in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. The aim of this study is to investigate the diagnostic value of perfusion 99mTc-exametazime single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in comparison with dopaminergic 123I-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-n-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (FP-CIT) SPECT imaging. Subjects underwent 99mTc-exametazime scanning (39 controls, 36 AD, 30 DLB) and 123I-FP-CIT scanning (33 controls, 33 AD, 28 DLB). For each scan, five raters performed visual assessments blind to clinical diagnosis on selected transverse 99mTc-exametazime images in standard stereotactic space. Diagnostic accuracy of 99mTc-exametazime was compared to 123I-FP-CIT results for the clinically relevant subgroups AD and DLB using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Inter-rater agreement for categorizing uptake was \"moderate\" (mean kappa = 0.53) for 99mTc-exametazime and \"excellent\" (mean kappa = 0.88) for 123I-FP-CIT. For AD and DLB, consensus rating matched clinical diagnosis in 56% of cases using 99mTc-exametazime and 84% using 123I-FP-CIT. In distinguishing AD from DLB, ROC analysis revealed superior diagnostic accuracy with 123I-FP-CIT (ROC curve area 0.83, sensitivity 78.6%, specificity 87.9%) compared to occipital 99mTc-exametazime (ROC curve area 0.64, sensitivity 64.3%, specificity 63.6%) p = 0.03. Diagnostic accuracy was superior with 123I-FP-CIT compared to 99mTc-exametazime in the differentiation of DLB from AD."}
{"id": "18691446", "title": "Differentiation of PA from early PSP with different patterns of symptoms and CBF reduction.", "content": "Differentiation of PA from early PSP with different patterns of symptoms and CBF reduction. To clarify the features of pure akinesia (PA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) in the early stage of disease. We investigated 15 PA and 41 PSP patients' clinical and radiologic features including head MRI, ethyl cysteinate dimmer-single photon emission-computed tomography (ECD-SPECT) and iodine-123 meta-iodobenzyl guanidine (123I-MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy. In ECD-SPECT study, cerebral blood flow (CBF) reduction was quantitatively expressed as Z-score, and that in the frontal lobe was evaluated. Many PSP patients claimed falls as the initial symptom but no PA patients did. Eye movement, as well as optokinetic nystagmus elicitation, was more frequently disturbed in PSP. Dementia, dysarthria and rigidity were also more frequent in PSP than in PA. Midbrain tegmentum atrophy in head MRI was more frequently observed in PSP. CBF in the frontal lobe, especially in the frontal eye field, was significantly lower in PSP than in PA. MIBG myocardial scintigraphy showed no difference between two groups. PA and PSP show distinct symptoms from the early stage, indicating that they are distinct disorders. The occurrence of falls and eye movement disturbance, as well as CBF reduction at the frontal eye field, is very important for distinguishing these disorders."}
{"id": "18690884", "title": "Radiopharmaceuticals in neurological and psychiatric disorders.", "content": "Radiopharmaceuticals in neurological and psychiatric disorders. The development of functional brain nuclear medicine techniques and their application in the investigation of neuropsychiatric disorders, have contributed significantly in the illumination of the underlying pathophysiological processes of these disorders. Furthermore, Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) brain studies provide information in early diagnosis, differential diagnosis, development of new drugs, and monitoring the response to therapeutic management. SPECT and PET brain imaging require the use of radiopharmaceuticals that cross the intact Blood Brain Barrier (BBB). Such radiotracers have been used in regional Cerebral Blood Flow (rCBF) SPECT and PET imaging and brain metabolism imaging with PET; these are well established methods in the diagnosis and management of various cerebral vascular diseases (e.g. stroke, dementia, epilepsy). Advances in radiotracer chemistry have resulted in the development of molecular imaging which represents the molecular and cellular processes of neuropsychiatric diseases. SPECT and PET molecular imaging has become available for the study of acetylcholinergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic systems, as well as for benzodiazepine and opioid receptors, with promising results. More studies are needed to validate the role of molecular imaging in the clinical practice of neuropsychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "18664857", "title": "Development and validation of the random walk algorithm: application to the classification of diffuse heterogeneity in brain SPECT perfusion images.", "content": "Development and validation of the random walk algorithm: application to the classification of diffuse heterogeneity in brain SPECT perfusion images. Heterogeneity analysis has been studied for radiological imaging, but few methods have been developed for functional images. Diffuse heterogeneous perfusion frequently appears in brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images, but objective quantification is lacking. An automatic method, based on random walk (RW) theory, has been developed to quantify perfusion heterogeneity. We assess the robustness of our algorithm in differentiating levels of diffuse heterogeneity even when focal defects are present. Heterogeneity is quantified by counting R (percentage), the mean rate of visited pixels in a fixed number of steps of the stochastic RW process. The algorithm has been tested on the numerical anthropomorphic Zubal head phantom. Seven diffuse cortical heterogeneity levels were simulated with an adjustable Gaussian function and 6 temporoparietal focal defects simulating Alzheimer Disease, leading to 42 phantoms. Data were projected and smoothed (full width at half maximum, 5.5 mm), and Poisson noise was added to the 64 projections. The SPECT data were reconstructed using filtered backprojection (Hamming filter, 0.5 c/p). R values for different levels of perfusion defect and diffuse heterogeneity were evaluated on 3 parameters: the number of slices studied (20 vs 40), the use of Talairach normalization versus original space, and the use of a cortical mask within the Talairach space. For each parameter, regression lines for heterogeneity and temporoparietal defect quantification were analyzed by covariance statistics. R values were also evaluated on SPECT images performed on 25 subjects with suspected focal dementia and on 15 normal controls. Scans were blindly ranked by 2 experienced nuclear physicians according to the degree of diffuse heterogeneity. Variability of R was smaller than 0.17% for repeated measurements. R was more particularly influenced by diffuse heterogeneity compared with focal perfusion defect. The Talairach normalization had a significant influence on the heterogeneity quantification. The number of slices visited by the RW and the cortical masking have a weak influence on the heterogeneity quantification but only for very low heterogeneity levels. The Spearman coefficient between physicians' consensus and RW automatic ranking is 0.85, in the same order of magnitude as the Spearman coefficient between the rankings of the 2 senior physicians (0.86). Random walk is an original and objective method and is able to quantify heterogeneous brain perfusion, even in presence of cortical defects. This method is repeatable, robust, and mainly influenced by spatial normalization."}
{"id": "18649394", "title": "Nigral burden of alpha-synuclein correlates with striatal dopamine deficit.", "content": "Nigral burden of alpha-synuclein correlates with striatal dopamine deficit. Aggregated alpha-synuclein is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD), diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), and multiple system atrophy (MSA). Physiologically, alpha-synuclein ensures normal functions of dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydoxylase. In alpha-synucleinopathies, it accumulates in neuronal cytoplasm and neurites through several stages. It is unclear whether the accumulation of pathological alpha-synuclein in the substantia nigra in PD correlates with the dopaminergic deficit in the striatal target. We evaluated the impact of the nigral burden of pathological alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity in 27 alpha-synucleinopathy brains by morphometric immunohistochemistry. DAT immunoreactivity in the striatum inversely correlates with the total alpha-synuclein burden in the substantia nigra but not with cytoplasmic inclusion counts only. This result has implications for imaging, clinicopathological correlative studies, and staging of the disease process."}
{"id": "18645736", "title": "The effect of donepezil on increased regional cerebral blood flow in the posterior cingulate cortex of a patient with Parkinson's disease dementia.", "content": "The effect of donepezil on increased regional cerebral blood flow in the posterior cingulate cortex of a patient with Parkinson's disease dementia. It has been reported that the cholinesterase inhibitor, donepezil, improves cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD). However, this improvement was dominant for frontal lobe dysfunction, and the increase in the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was minimal. We report a PDD patient with a decline of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the posterior cingulate cortex, precunei, and bilateral parietotemporal association cortex, as determined by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using the easy Z-scores imaging system (e-ZIS). Upon administration of donepezil, both the rCBF and MMSE score increased. The effectiveness of donepezil may vary based on the rCBF pattern in PDD."}
{"id": "18641884", "title": "Vascular dementia by thalamic strategic infarct.", "content": "Vascular dementia by thalamic strategic infarct."}
{"id": "18633132", "title": "The logopenic/phonological variant of primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "The logopenic/phonological variant of primary progressive aphasia. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is characterized by isolated decline in language functions. Semantic dementia and progressive nonfluent aphasia are accepted PPA variants. A \"logopenic\" variant (LPA) has also been proposed, but its cognitive and anatomic profile is less defined. The aim of this study was to establish the cognitive and anatomic features of LPA. Six previously unreported LPA cases underwent extensive neuropsychological evaluation and an experimental study of phonological loop functions, including auditory and visual span tasks with digits, letters, and words. For each patient, a voxel-wise, automated analysis of MRI or SPECT data were conducted using SPM2. In LPA, speech rate was slow, with long word-finding pauses. Grammar and articulation were preserved, although phonological paraphasias could be present. Repetition and comprehension were impaired for sentences but preserved for single words, and naming was moderately affected. Investigation of phonological loop functions showed that patients were severely impaired in digit, letter, and word span tasks. Performance did not improve with pointing, was influenced by word length, and did not show the normal phonological similarity effect. Atrophy or decreased blood flow was consistently found in the posterior portion of the left superior and middle temporal gyri and inferior parietal lobule. Logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA) is a distinctive variant of primary progressive aphasia. Cognitive and neuroimaging data indicate that a deficit in phonological loop functions may be the core mechanism underlying the LPA clinical syndrome. Recent studies suggest that Alzheimer disease may be the most common pathology underlying the LPA clinical syndrome."}
{"id": "18631733", "title": "Strategies for using molecular neuroimaging in dementia.", "content": "Strategies for using molecular neuroimaging in dementia."}
{"id": "18618663", "title": "Striatal dopamine transporter imaging correlates with depressive symptoms and tower of London task performance in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Striatal dopamine transporter imaging correlates with depressive symptoms and tower of London task performance in Parkinson's disease. We studied whether the (123)I-FP-CIT uptake in the striatum correlates with depressive symptoms and cognitive performance in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Twenty patients with PD without major depression and/or dementia (mean age 61.7 +/- 12.7 years) underwent the (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT. Depressive symptoms and cognitive performance were assessed in the ON state. The ratios of striatal to occipital binding for the entire striatum, putamina, and putamen to the caudate (put/caud) index were calculated in the basal ganglia. The association between neuropsychiatric measures and dopamine transporter (DAT) availability was calculated; multiple regression analysis was used to assess association with age and disease duration. We found significant correlations between Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MARDS) and Tower of London (TOL) task scores and (123)I-FP-CIT uptake in various striatal ROIs. Multiple regression analysis confirmed the significant relationship between TOL performance and put/caud ratio (P = 0.001) and to age (P = 0.001), and between MADRS and left striatal (P = 0.005) and putaminal DAT availability (P = 0.003). Our pilot study results demonstrate that imaging with (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT appears to be sensitive for detecting dopaminergic deficit associated with mild depressive symptoms and specific cognitive dysfunction in patients with PD, yet without a current depressive episode and/or dementia."}
{"id": "18616086", "title": "Central nervous system neurodegeneration and tinnitus: a clinical experience. Part II: translational neurovascular theory of neurodegenerative CNS disease and tinnitus.", "content": "Central nervous system neurodegeneration and tinnitus: a clinical experience. Part II: translational neurovascular theory of neurodegenerative CNS disease and tinnitus. The translation of a neurovascular hypothesis for Alzheimer's disease to subjective idiopathic tinnitus (SIT) is presented as a challenge to the predominantly sensorineural view of SIT and its clinical application for tinnitus treatment. The concept of neurovascular dysfunction and neurodegeneration (ND) in SIT patients has been proposed and reported as an etiology in a particular subset of tinnitus patients with a diagnosis of medical-audiological tinnitus, through a medical-audiological tinnitus patient protocol, to be a predominantly central-type, severe, disabling SIT (n = 54 of 96). A medical-audiological ND tinnitus profile was the basis for selection of 18 SIT patients (n = 18 of 54) for nuclear medicine brain imaging (i.e., single-photon emission computed tomography or positron emission tomography, or both). Objective findings were reported in 16 of this cohort of 18 SIT patients selected for nuclear medicine imaging (88.9%). Classification of central nervous system (CNS) ND and tinnitus differentiated between (1) ND, nonspecific and of unknown etiology; (2) ND manifested by perfusion asymmetries in brain associated with ischemia (n = 11 of 18); and (3) ND CNS disease consistent with nuclear medicine criteria for senile dementia Alzheimer's-type disease (n = 5 of 18). The diagnosis was associated with cerebrovascular disease (n = 16 of 18). The identification of pathological processes of inflammation and ischemia, linked to ND, in a particular cohort of SIT patients may provide a basis for establishing the medical significance and treatment of SIT and influence the clinical course of the tinnitus."}
{"id": "18606218", "title": "Effects of Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan on aged rats.", "content": "Effects of Chinese herbal medicine fuzhisan on aged rats. Fuzhisan (FZS), a Chinese herbal complex prescription, has been used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) for more than 15 years. Previous studies showed that FZS enhanced the cognitive ability in AD patients and AD model rats. FZS modulated the impaired cellular functions, and attenuated the damage caused by beta-amyloid protein, dose-dependently regulated and ameliorated the cholinergic functions of the Abeta(25-35)-induced AD-model mice. The SPECT imaging revealed that FZS improved the blood flow of the frontal and temporal lobes and the callosal gyrus in AD patients. However, little investigation of the effects of FZS on the naturally aged rats was reported. The underlying mechanism also remains to be explored. Recently we investigated the effects of the aqueous extract of FZS on the cognitive functions of the aged rats and the pharmacological basis for its therapeutic efficacy. The results showed a significant improvement made by FZS (0.3, 0.6, and 1.2 g/kg/d) for impaired cognitive functions of the aged rats. The rats manifested a shortened latency in Morris water maze test after intra-gavage administration (ig) of FZS for 30 consecutive days. The micro-positron emission tomography (microPET) using (18)F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ((18)F-FDG) as the tracer demonstrated that FZS promoted the glucose metabolism in the whole brains especially the temporal and parietal regions in the aged rats. The spectrophotometry and Western blot showed that FZS obviously increased the activity and the production of choline O-acetyltransferase (ChAT, EC 2.3.1.6) and the acetylcholine (ACh) contents in the hippocampus, thus regulated and ameliorated the impaired cholinergic functions of the aged rats. The therapeutical effects of FZS on the learning and memory of the aged rats were dose-dependent. The mechanism of action of FZS in ameliorating the memory dysfunction of the aged rats is ascribed to the reinforcement of the function of the cholinergic system and the enhancement of the glucose metabolism in the brains. The results of this study, together with a survey of the findings in the clinical treatment with FZS suggest that FZS may not merely alleviate the symptoms of the dementia, but may also augment the production of the neurotransmitter ACh and the energy supply in the brain to build up fitness of the patients. FZS may be beneficial for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease or cognitive impairment in old people."}
{"id": "18593002", "title": "[Improved diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies by the combination of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy and 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimmer (ECD) brain perfusion SPECT].", "content": "[Improved diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies by the combination of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy and 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimmer (ECD) brain perfusion SPECT]. Clinical diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) include abnormal findings on MIBG myocardial scintigraphy and occipital hypoperfusion as supportive features. In this study, 36 patients with probable DLB underwent MIBG scintigraphy and brain perfusion SPECT. The results of SPECT were analyzed using three different cerebral blood flow (CBF)-analyzing programs, an easy Z-score imaging system (e-ZIS), 3DSRT, and FineSRT. Among these assessments, delayed heart-to-mediastinum (dH/M) ratios on MIBG scintigraphy showed superior sensitivity (92%) to detect characteristic abnormalities in DLB. The sensitivities of CBF-analyzing programs to detect occipital hypoperfusion were 67%, 74%, and 81% for e-ZIS, 3DSRT, and FineSRT, respectively. Our results demonstrate that the combination of MIBG scintigraphy and brain perfusion SPECT could increase the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of DLB. MIBG scintigraphy could be recommended for DLB patients in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "18592038", "title": "Frontal lobe hypoperfusion and depressive symptoms in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe hypoperfusion and depressive symptoms in Alzheimer disease. Depressive symptoms of varying severity are prevalent in up to 63% of Alzheimer disease (AD) patients and often result in greater cognitive decline and increased caregiver burden. The current study aimed to determine the neural correlates of depressive symptoms in a sample of AD patients. Using the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia, we assessed 56 patients who met criteria for probable AD. Data obtained from Technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were analyzed with the use of a magnetic resonance imaging-derived region of interest (ROI) anatomic template before and after atrophy correction and statistical parametric mapping (SPM). The following 4 frontal ROIs were investigated bilaterally: middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann's area [BA] 46), orbitofrontal cortex (BA 11), superior prefrontal (BA 8/9) and anterior cingulate (BA 24/25/32/33). Depressive symptoms were present in 27 of the AD patients (48%). Patients with depressive symptoms showed less perfusion in the right superior and bilateral middle frontal gyri (p < 0.005), left superior frontal (p < 0.05) and anterior cingulate gyri (p < 0.005) before atrophy correction. SPM analyses revealed significantly lower perfusion in bilateral dorsolateral and superior prefrontal cortex of patients with depressive symptoms (right, p < 0.005; left, p < 0.05). SPECT ROI analyses with atrophy correction revealed trends similar to data without atrophy correction but did not reach statistical significance. In this study, depressive symptoms in AD patients were associated with relative hypoperfusion in the prefrontal cortex when they were compared with AD patients without depressive symptoms. These findings are consistent with previous reports in studies of primary depression suggesting that these regions are involved in affect and emotional regulation."}
{"id": "18590798", "title": "The relationship between depressive symptoms and prefrontal hypoperfusion demonstrated by eZIS in patients with DAT.", "content": "The relationship between depressive symptoms and prefrontal hypoperfusion demonstrated by eZIS in patients with DAT. Depressive symptoms are common in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and contribute to clinical morbidity. Previous studies have suggested that hypoperfusion in the prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus are involved in the pathophysiology of depression. Using the easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS), we investigated the relationship between depressive symptoms and prefrontal hypoperfusion in AD. Tc-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer (Tc-99m-ECD)-single photon emission tomography (SPECT) and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) were performed in forty-four patients diagnosed as having Dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) with the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). These patients were divided into the depressive group (D group: n=26) and non-depressive group (ND group: n=18) using NPI depression items. All data from SPECT images were analyzed using eZIS software. Scores in four regions were determined by Z-values; these regions consisted of each side of the prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus. The mean scores between the D group and ND group were compared. The mean scores of the left prefrontal cortex in the D group were significantly higher (p<0.0125) than those in the ND group. There were no significant differences in the scores of the right prefrontal cortex and the bilateral anterior cingulate gyrus between these two groups (Mann-Whitney U-test). These findings suggest that hypoperfusion in the left prefrontal area contributes to the expression of depressive symptoms in patients with DAT."}
{"id": "18577840", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementia: in vivo amyloid imaging.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementia: in vivo amyloid imaging. Dementia, a progressive cognitive decline, leads to a gradually increasing restriction of daily activities. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. The pathological features of AD include plaques and tangles which are constituted by amyloid beta peptide (A beta) and tau protein. These amyloidogenic molecules have been mechanistically implicated in the pathogenesis of AD and related neurodegenerative dementias. The key strategy for establishment of diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to AD is sensitive and specific detection of the incipient neuropathology characteristics of AD, combined with emerging treatments that counteract molecular processes in AD pathogenesis. Recent advances in molecular imaging research have enabled visualization of brain amyloidosis. The rapid development of different compounds suitable for visualizing amyloid would permit pathology-specific diagnosis of AD at an asymptomatic stage in a noninvasive manner, and could also allow early immunotherapeutic intervention without causing an excessive neuroinflammatory response."}
{"id": "18572195", "title": "Cognitive decline as a manifestation of mitochondrial disorders (mitochondrial dementia).", "content": "Cognitive decline as a manifestation of mitochondrial disorders (mitochondrial dementia). Mitochondrial disorders, in particular respiratory chain diseases (RCDs), present either as single organ problem or as multi-system disease. One of the most frequently affected organs in RCDs, in addition to the skeletal muscle, is the central nervous system (CNS). CNS manifestations of RCDs include epilepsy, stroke-like episodes, migraine-like headache, ataxia, spasticity, movement disorders, psychosis, demyelination, calcification, but also dementia. Cognitive impairment may be a feature of syndromic as well as non-syndromic RCDs. Syndromic RCDs associated with cognitive impairment include MELAS, KSS, Leigh syndrome, and many others. RCDs with cognitive decline not only result from mtDNA mutations but also from mutations in nuclear genes. At onset there is often no general intellectual deterioration in these patients but specific cognitive deficits, particularly in the visual construction, attention, abstraction, or flexibility. Diagnosis of cognitive impairment from RCDs is based on neuropsychological testing, imaging studies, including MRI, PET, SPECT, or MR-spectroscopy, CSF investigations, or electroencephalography. Therapeutic strategies for dementia in RCDs rely on symptomatic measures. Only single patients may profit from cholinesterase inhibitors or memantine, antioxidants, vitamins, or other substitutes. Overall, cognitive decline in RCDs (mitochondrial dementia) needs to be included in the differentials of dementia."}
{"id": "18542960", "title": "Required time delay from 99mTc-HMPAO injection to SPECT data acquisition: healthy subjects and patients with rCBF pattern.", "content": "Required time delay from 99mTc-HMPAO injection to SPECT data acquisition: healthy subjects and patients with rCBF pattern. Functional brain (99m)Tc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a useful diagnostic tool for assessment of regional cerebral blood flow, particularly in dementia, cerebrovascular disease and epilepsy. Currently, the European and American Association of Nuclear Medicine Procedure Guidelines for Brain Perfusion SPET using (99m)Tc-labeled Radiopharmaceuticals recommend a time delay of 90 min between injection of (99m)Tc-HMPAO and data acquisition. This time delay is difficult to comply within the daily routine and present a problem, particularly with the elderly or demented patients. This study investigates in patients with perfusion deficits and in healthy subjects if the quality of the SPECT image is affected by lowering the time delay between (99m)Tc-HMPAO injection and data acquisition to 30 or 60 min. Thirty-seven healthy subjects (17 females; mean age 65; range 42-84 years) with normal cerebral blood flow distribution and 31 patients (17 females; mean age 67; range 38-84) with reduced rCBF distribution were included. Images were obtained with a three-headed Philips IRIX SPECT scanner with high-resolution collimators. The healthy subjects were scanned 30, 60 and 90 min after (99m)Tc-HMPAO injection, and the patients were scanned 30 and 90 or 60 and 90 min after (99m)Tc-HMPAO injection. For evaluation of differences between the images obtained at various time points after injection, two different methods were used. The z-map method was used to subtract images from each other prior to visual inspection. In addition, principal component analysis was used as a quantitative analysis of the similarity of the images. Visual inspection of the subtracted images (30 or 60 versus 90 min) revealed that there was no spatial bias. Quantitatively, the average proportion of the total variance explained by the first principal component was 99.5% (range 98.9-99.6) for the healthy subjects and 99.4% (range 98.5-99.8) for the patients. The time delay from injection of (99m)Tc-HMPAO to the start of the SPECT data acquisition can be reduced from 90 to 30 min without any significant impact on the quality of the acquired image."}
{"id": "18515002", "title": "Isolated central nervous system Whipple's disease causing reversible frontotemporal-like dementia.", "content": "Isolated central nervous system Whipple's disease causing reversible frontotemporal-like dementia. We report a patient with a syndrome resembling frontotemporal dementia (FTD); however, on further diagnostic testing, the diagnosis was Whipple's disease. Because Whipple's disease is treatable, it should be considered in the workup of patients with a FTD-like behavioural and cognitive syndrome."}
{"id": "18506194", "title": "Comparison of noninvasive quantification methods of in vivo vesicular acetylcholine transporter using [123I]-IBVM SPECT imaging.", "content": "Comparison of noninvasive quantification methods of in vivo vesicular acetylcholine transporter using [123I]-IBVM SPECT imaging. Dementia with Lewy Body and Alzheimer's disease exhibit degeneration of the cholinergic neurons, and currently, the primary target of treatment is the cholinergic neurotransmitter system. [(123)I]-IBVM is a highly selective radioligand for in vivo visualization of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) using single photon emission computed tomography. This study compares different noninvasive methods using the occipital cortex as a reference region for the quantification of [(123)I]-IBVM binding in six older, healthy volunteers: two kinetic analyses based on one-tissue (1TCM) or two-tissue compartment model (2TCM), one linear and one multilinear analysis, and a simplified peak equilibrium analysis. Time-activity curves were well described by a 1TCM for all regions. The 2TCM converged reliably only in the striatum. Goodness of fit was not improved by using a 2TCM as compared with a 1TCM. The multilinear analysis gave binding potentials similar to the 1TCM while being more robust. The peak equilibrium method might prove to be a useful simplified analysis. The binding potentials obtained with reference region methods strongly correlated with results from invasive blood-sampling analysis. Noninvasive quantification of [(123)I]-IBVM data provides reliable estimates of VAChT binding, which is most valuable to study neurodegenerative diseases with specific cholinergic alteration."}
{"id": "18477845", "title": "Cerebral substrates related to impaired performance in the clock-drawing test in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Cerebral substrates related to impaired performance in the clock-drawing test in dementia with Lewy bodies. To identify the neural correlates of impaired performance in the clock-drawing test (CDT) in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Cerebral blood flow was measured by single photon emission computed tomography in patients with clinically diagnosed DLB, and was compared between impaired CDT (n = 30) and normal CDT (n = 30) subgroups. DLB patients with impaired CDT performance showed significantly lower cerebral blood flow in the bilateral frontal eye fields, supplementary eye fields, right posterior putamen and the right ventrolateral part of the thalamus relative to the normal CDT subgroup. Performance in other visuospatial/attentional tasks (trail making test part A, copying a cube, semantic fluency, and block design) was also poorer in the impaired CDT group than the normal CDT group. This study indicates that impaired performances on the CDT and some visuospatial/attentional tasks by DLB patients are closely related to dysfunctions of the frontal-subcortical network relevant to control of visuospatial attention and arousal, involving the frontal eye fields, supplementary eye fields and the thalamus. Our findings provide evidence that cognitive performance in DLB reflects the pathological involvement of both cortical and subcortical regions, and suggest that the neurophysiological basis underlying impaired CDT in DLB may be different from that in Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "18437639", "title": "[Nuclear medicine imaging in neurodegenerative dementias].", "content": "[Nuclear medicine imaging in neurodegenerative dementias]. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) are important tools in the differential diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of cognitive disorders. SPECT and PET are highly sensitive methods for the early diagnosis of underlying neurodegeneration and the functional changes in the basal ganglia. Early and reliable diagnosis will become even more relevant with the development of options in the causal treatment of dementias, which would exert their most beneficial effects well before the onset of clinical symptoms. This review provides a brief survey on currently available methods of nuclear imaging in cortical (Alzheimer's disease) and subcortical forms of neurodegenerative dementia (Parkinson's disease; dementia with Lewy bodies)."}
{"id": "18437636", "title": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies and reduced dopamine transporter binding indicates significant acetylcholine deficiency].", "content": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies and reduced dopamine transporter binding indicates significant acetylcholine deficiency]. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common form of neurodegenerative dementia. It is usually caused by a mixture of symptoms of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease leading to a significant impairment of nigro-striatal dopaminergic and baso-cortical cholinergic neurotransmission with typical clinical symptoms of a fluctuating course, hallucinations, parkinsonism, REM-sleep disorder and neuroleptic hypersensitivity. If the clinical presentation of DLB is uncharacteristic, the demonstration of reduced presynaptic striatal dopamine transporter (DaT) sites supports a suspicion of DLB and may lead to important therapeutic consequences. In these circumstances this evidence for compromised dopaminergic neurotransmission also indicates a significant cholinergic deficit: both require diligent therapeutic attention."}
{"id": "18433968", "title": "Usefulness of a blood flow analyzing program 3DSRT to detect occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Usefulness of a blood flow analyzing program 3DSRT to detect occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies. In the latest criteria for the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), supportive features include generalized low uptake on SPECT/PET perfusion scan with reduced occipital activity. In this study, we investigated the usefulness of a cerebral blood flow (CBF) quantification program '3DSRT' in detecting occipital hypoperfusion in DLB. Twenty two patients with probable DLB, 38 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 16 normal controls underwent brain perfusion SPECT. Compared with AD, DLB patients had a bilateral lower CBF in the posterior cerebral segments. The correlation of clinical symptoms and brain blood perfusion was examined by dividing the subjects into subgroups. DLB patients with Parkinsonism, when compared to non-Parkinsonism subgroup, had a lower CBF throughout the cerebrum with statistical significance in the posterior cerebral segments. The quantitative analysis of brain perfusion SPECT by 3DSRT could be a useful supportive measurement in the diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "18427998", "title": "Behaviour in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.", "content": "Behaviour in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We wished to determine whether patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) show behavioural changes similar to those of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). There is accumulating evidence to suggest a link between ALS and FTD, yet there has been little systematic exploration of behaviour in ALS. An informant based semi-structured behavioural interview, sensitive to the behavioural changes of FTD, was administered to carers of 16 consecutive patients attending a motor neuron disease clinic. Findings varied across the group. At one extreme informants reported no behavioural change, whereas at the other they reported a spectrum of behaviours similar to those seen in FTD. Changes in affect and social behaviour were most common, although some patients also showed altered response to sensory stimuli, gluttony and indiscriminate eating, behavioural stereotypies and compulsions. Behavioural changes were mirrored by SPECT abnormalities in the frontal and/or temporal lobes. Thus, behavioural changes of the type seen in FTD may be present even in a small consecutive cohort of ALS patients. Detection of behavioural change is crucial for optimal management."}
{"id": "18427076", "title": "Re: Brain SPECT perfusion of frontotemporal dementia associated with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Re: Brain SPECT perfusion of frontotemporal dementia associated with motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "18412838", "title": "Poor performance in Clock-Drawing Test associated with visual memory deficit and reduced bilateral hippocampal and left temporoparietal regional blood flows in Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Poor performance in Clock-Drawing Test associated with visual memory deficit and reduced bilateral hippocampal and left temporoparietal regional blood flows in Alzheimer's disease patients. To investigate the associations of Clock-Drawing Test (CDT) score with neuropsychological test scores and regional cerebral blood flow. Twenty-five patients (normal aging, n = 2; mild cognitive impairment, n = 7; Alzheimer's disease [AD], n = 16) participated in this study. Their average age was 74.8 years. CDT score correlated well with the neuropsychological test scores of Mini-Mental State Examination, Clinical Dementia Rating, immediate visual memory, delayed visual memory, and IQ evaluated by Koh's block design. CDT score also had a statistically significant correlation with the regional blood flow in the left hippocampal region as evaluated on 3-D stereotaxic region-of-interest template analysisapplied to single-photon emission computed tomography images. Using a cut-off point of 8/9 in the CDT, the high-CDT group had significantly higher delayed visual memory and IQ scores than the low-CDT group. Moreover, the high-CDT group had significantly higher regional blood flows in the left parietal, left angular and bilateral hippocampal regions than the low-CDT group. CDT score correlates well with regional cerebral blood flow that is decreased in the early stage of AD."}
{"id": "18410503", "title": "Alpha-synuclein aggregation and cell death triggered by energy deprivation and dopamine overload are counteracted by D2/D3 receptor activation.", "content": "Alpha-synuclein aggregation and cell death triggered by energy deprivation and dopamine overload are counteracted by D2/D3 receptor activation. Progressive degeneration and intraneuronal Lewy bodies made of filamentous alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) in dopaminergic cells of the nigrostriatal system are characteristics of Parkinson's disease (PD). Glucose uptake is reduced in some of the brain regions affected by PD neurodegenerative changes. Defects in mitochondrial activity in the substantia nigra have been observed in the brain of patients affected by PD and substantia nigra lesions can induce the onset of a secondary parkinsonism. Thus, energy starvation and consequently metabolic impairment to dopaminergic neurons may be related to the onset of PD. On this line, we evaluated the effect of nutrient starvation, reproduced 'in vitro' by glucose deprivation (GD), in primary mesecephalic neuronal cultures and dopaminergic-differentiated SH-SY5Y cells, to evaluate if decreased glucose support to dopaminergic cells can lead to mitochondrial damage, neurodegeneration and alpha-syn misfolding. Furthermore, we investigated the effect of dopamine (DA) treatment in the presence of a DA-uptake inhibitor or of the D(2)/D(3) receptor (D(2)R/D(3)R) agonist quinpirole on GD-treated cells, to evaluate the efficacy of these therapeutic compounds. We found that GD induced the formation of fibrillary aggregated alpha-syn inclusions containing the DA transporter in dopaminergic cells. These alterations were accompanied by dopaminergic cell death and were exacerbated by DA overload. Conversely, the block of DA uptake and D(2)R/D(3)R agonist treatment exerted neuroprotective effects. These data indicate that glucose starvation is likely involved in the induction of PD-related pathological changes in dopaminergic neurons. These changes may be counteracted by the block of DA uptake and by dopaminergic agonist treatment."}
{"id": "18410280", "title": "MM2-cortical-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease with early stage cerebral cortical pathology presenting with a rapidly progressive clinical course.", "content": "MM2-cortical-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease with early stage cerebral cortical pathology presenting with a rapidly progressive clinical course. We report the case of a 67-year-old man with MM2-cortical-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) with a rapidly progressive clinical course of 5 months. Initial symptoms were progressive memory disturbance and dementia. MRI revealed high signal-intensity lesions on diffusion-weighted images in the bilateral frontal and occipital cortices. Myoclonus and periodic sharp-wave complexes on the electroencephalogram were observed in the early disease stage. The clinical diagnosis was typical sCJD. Neuropathologic examination at autopsy showed widespread, characteristic cerebral neocortical involvement with large confluent vacuole-type spongiform change. Spongiform degeneration was also evident in the striatum and medial thalamus. In the cerebellar cortex, slight depletion of Purkinje neurons was evident without spongiform change in the molecular layer or apparent neuron loss in the granule cell layer. The inferior olivary nucleus showed slight hypertrophic astrocytosis without neuron loss. Prion protein (PrP) immunostaining showed widespread, characteristic perivacuolar-type PrP deposits with irregular plaque-like PrP deposits in the cerebral neocortex, striatum and medial thalamus. We believe this patient showed early-stage cerebral cortical pathology of MM2-cortical-type sCJD, which may provide clues regarding the pathologic progression of this rare sCJD subtype. Although MM2-cortical-type sCJD generally shows slow progression without myoclonus or periodic sharp-wave complexes, the present patient showed a rapidly progressive clinical course similar to that of MM1-type sCJD."}
{"id": "18402076", "title": "[Memory impairment due to circumscribed infarct at the left dorsolateral prefrontal lobe].", "content": "[Memory impairment due to circumscribed infarct at the left dorsolateral prefrontal lobe]. A 65-year-old man experienced an embolism at the left dorsolateral prefrontal region of the brain (the inferior frontal gyrus and a part of the middle frontal gyrus). He was a known case of diabetes mellitus and atrial fibrillation. On evaluation his Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 26, indicating the absence of dementia. His chief complaint was episodic memory impairment. On the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R), he had lower scores for general memory, visual memory and verbal memory. In particular, his verbal memory was markedly impaired compared to visual memory. Tests performed to assess working memory, such as evaluation on the WMS-R for attention/concentration in WMS-R and both parts A and B of the trail making test, revealed normal findings; this indicated that the patient had normal working memory. However, he complained of forgettingess of either phone numbers or routes, and this suggested the impairment of working memory in his daily life. In summary, he suffered from either episodic verbal memory or working memory impairment. His executive function test revealed a slight disturbance of set-exchange on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test-Keio version. Such a case of memory impairment caused by a lesion in the left dorsolateral prefrontal lobe has rarely been reported."}
{"id": "18391962", "title": "Lewy body-like pathology in long-term embryonic nigral transplants in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Lewy body-like pathology in long-term embryonic nigral transplants in Parkinson's disease. Fourteen years after transplantation into the striatum of an individual with Parkinson's disease, grafted nigral neurons were found to have Lewy body-like inclusions that stained positively for alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin and to have reduced immunostaining for dopamine transporter. These pathological changes suggest that Parkinson's disease is an ongoing process that can affect grafted cells in the striatum in a manner similar to host dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. These findings have implications for cell-based therapies and for understanding the cause of Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "18388853", "title": "Neurological and psychiatric disorders in thyroid dysfunctions. The role of nuclear medicine: SPECT and PET imaging.", "content": "Neurological and psychiatric disorders in thyroid dysfunctions. The role of nuclear medicine: SPECT and PET imaging. Thyroid dysfunctions may be accompanied by numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders. The most known is cognitive impairment and depression in hypothyroid patients, as well as an increased risk of cerebrovascular accidents. A separate, although a rare entity, is Hashimoto's encephalopathy. In hyperthyroidism there is an increased incidence of psychiatric disorders, including apathetic hyperthyroidism and hyperthyroid dementia. Functional imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism helped establish both global and/or regional decrease of both cerebral blood flow and metabolism in hypothyroidism, particularly in regions mediating attention, motor speed and visuospatial processing. Hypothyroid dementia may be mediated by neurocircuitry different from that in major depression. Less is known on flow/metabolism changes in hyperthyroidism. Global blood flow may be slightly increased, with regional deficits of blood flow, particular in hyperthyroid dementia. As presented above radionuclide functional imaging showed some metabolic patterns in thyroid dysfunctions, but still many issues remain unresolved. In particular little is known about the underlying pathology of cognitive impairment and depression in hypothyroidism, which may differ from ones in euthyroid patients. Also little is known about the reversibility of changes in cerebral blood flow following thyroid replacement therapy. In hyperthyroid patients functional imaging might contribute to elucidate the background of apathetic hyperthyroidism and potential different background of psychiatric complications."}
{"id": "18386631", "title": "[Case of post-stroke dementia after left medial occipitoparietal lesion].", "content": "[Case of post-stroke dementia after left medial occipitoparietal lesion]. We report herein a patient of poststroke dementia (PSD) following left medial occipitoparietal hemorrhage triggered by drainage of an acute traumatic subdural hematoma. The patient, an independent 73-year-old man, became dependent due to dementia. Cognitive dysfunction was characterized by moderately decreased IQ, severe memory disturbances, topographical disorientation, executive dysfunction and loss of self-awareness. Cognitive dysfunction has not advanced for 3 years. Hypo-perfusion in the whole brain, particularly in the left temporal and parietal regions, was visible on 123I-IMP SPECT images. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated damage to the left posterior cingulate cortex, cingulate bundle, superior parietal lobule and subcortical region of the occipital lobe. The fornix was spared. Some subcortical small spotted lesions were detected, but periventricular lucency was not prominent. Structures known to be important in memory but spared by the lesion included the thalamus and basal forebrain. Small spotted subcortical lesions were detected in bilateral hippocampi, which are also known to be important in memory, but these were probably silent lesions. This case suggested that dementia is brought on by the lesion of the left posterior cingulate bundle and retrosplenial cortex causing amnesia by disrupting the cingulate-hippocampal connection or the retrosplenial cortex itself, with the lesion of the left occipitoparietal subcortex causing frontal dysfunction by disrupting the dorsal limbic pathway and occipitofrontal fasciculus of the prefrontal circuits."}
{"id": "18380693", "title": "In vivo imaging of neurotransmission and brain receptors in dementia.", "content": "In vivo imaging of neurotransmission and brain receptors in dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) are the most sensitive techniques to study, in vivo, neurotransmitter systems in normal human brain and in diseases. These methods have been applied over the last years to explore the integrity of cholinergic, serotonergic, GABAergic, and dopaminergic systems in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in other dementias. The results of these investigations have provided new insights into the neurotransmission involvement in these disorders. Moreover, these methods provide objective quantitative markers for monitoring the progression of disease and the effects of therapies. The pathophysiological and clinical relevance of results from these studies are reviewed and the potential role in early and differential diagnosis discussed. New emerging radiotracers/methods for future investigations of neurochemical processes are delineated."}
{"id": "18370334", "title": "[Apolipoprotein E4 in dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Apolipoprotein E4 in dementia with Lewy bodies]. There is a strong association between the e4 allele of apolipoprotein E (APOE) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). This converts this allele into a risk factor for the development of AD. The association between APOE4 and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is under discussion. In DLB, the presence of APOE4 has been related with a greater amount of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. This is a case-control study in which the APOE genotype was determined using the modified PCR technique of Wenham in 306 patients with diagnosis of probably AD, NINCDS-ADRDA criteria, 58 cases of probably DLB, McKeith et al. consensus criteria (1996), all of them with SPECT with pathological 123I-FP-CIT and 80 normal controls (NC) having similar age and gender distribution. The frequency of alleles was: DLB group epsilon4: 16%; epsilon3: 75%; epsilon2: 9%; AD: epsilon4: 32%; epsilon3: 67%; epsilon2: 1%; and in the normal control group: epsilon4: 12%; epsilon3: 83%; epsilon2: 5%. The percentage of alleles in both genders was similar in the three groups. APOE4 percentage in DLB group (16%) was lower than in AD group (32%), and similar to the control group (12%). Considering that the presence of morphopathological Alzheimer type alterations in DBL, essentially neurofibrillary tangles, is inversely correlated with the presence of Parkinsonian signs, this group may represent pure forms of the disease, although the lack of neuropathological demonstration does not make it possible to confirm this hypothesis."}
{"id": "18349797", "title": "Value of cerebral blood flow quantification in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Value of cerebral blood flow quantification in the diagnosis of dementia. Quantifying hemispheric cerebral blood flow (CBF) may improve diagnostic accuracy when combined with perfusion SPECT. To explore the impact of measuring mean CBF on the differential diagnosis of dementia under clinical conditions. CBF was calculated from anterior planar dynamic images acquired over 100 s after i.v. bolus injection of 550 MBq of (99m)Tc-HMPAO using Patlak linearization of normalized time-activity curves derived from right and left hemispheric, and aortic ROIs. Regional perfusion was evaluated from SPECT imaging carried out 20 min later. ANCOVA was applied to compare age-dependent differences of CBF; model differences at P<0.05 were considered significant. Study populations consisted of controls, 34 patients with no focal or vascular abnormality or mood disorder and with normal MR or CT brain images (F:M, 16:18; age+/-SD; 54.3+/-20.2 years); and patients with probable dementia comprised two subgroups. The first consisted of 33 patients with primary degenerative aetiology (PDD) (DAT or mixed-type microvascular and DAT, Lewy body and fronto-temporal atrophy), F/M; 17:16, age+/-SD; 68.4+/-8.8 years. The second subgroup consisted of 13 patients with dementia related to subcortical microvascular leuco-encephalopathy (vLEP), M/F 7:6, age+/-SD; 71.7+/-12.6 years. Classification was mainly based on clinical findings according to DMS-IV criteria, combined with follow-up or functional and anatomical imaging. Computation of CBF on 100 consecutive patients showed excellent inter-user reproducibility in trained hands (variation coefficient <5%). Mean CBF in controls showed an age dependent decrease, the first order linear regression was CBF(left)=58.9-0.2 x age (r=-0.648, P<0.001) and CBF(right)=57.9-0.02 x age (r=-0.645). In comparison to controls, a slightly more pronounced but statistically insignificant age-dependent decrease in mCBF was found in the vLEP group, CBF(left)=55.5-0.21 x age (r=-0.56) and CBF(right)=64.2-0.32 x age (r=-0.645). In the PDD group CBF, after adjusting for age, was significantly lower than control values (P<0.001); CBF(left)=37-0.025 x age and CBF(right)=39-0.057 x age. More importantly, better discrimination between PDD and controls in patients of younger age (45-65 years) was found. In older patients (65-85 years) overlap slightly increased. ROC analysis of the cohort of dement patients and controls older than 46 years revealed a 93-94% sensitivity and a specificity of 73% and 77% for the left and right hemispheres, respectively, at a CBF cut-off value of 39.5 ml.min(-1).100 g(-1). Routine quantification of mean CBF by HMPAO-RNA is a simple and reproducible method which can be easily added to the standard brain perfusion SPECT without additional cost or increasing patient's radiation burden. Combined with regional perfusion it provides an additional tool for the aetiological classification of dementia."}
{"id": "18327742", "title": "[Thalamic dementia secondary to acute bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts after occlusion of the artery of Percheron].", "content": "[Thalamic dementia secondary to acute bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts after occlusion of the artery of Percheron]. The anterior and medial part of the thalamus is the responsible of multiples cognitive functions through the thalamus-cortical connections. A bilateral thalamic infarction can cause a secondary dementia and these are related to a thalamocortical deafferentation with a partial recovery. We report a case of sudden onset dementia caused by bilateral thalamus lesions. A 42 smoker male, that suddenly had an acute confusional syndrome with altered language, bradypsychia, right hemiparesis and right hemisensory loss. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed a bilateral thalamic stroke probably due to a variant talamus irrigation (artery of Percheron type 2). From this date, in three months, the patient had attention deficit, impairment of memory retention, apathy, initiative deficit, depressive syndrome and mood changes. All these symptoms improving partially in the following six months. The thalamic stroke can cause a thalamic dementia, commonly bilateral and preferable located in the anterior and medial nuclei. In our case, cranial SPECT showed frontal hypocaptation for diaschisis phenomenon."}
{"id": "18311087", "title": "Smoking-related changes in cerebral perfusion in a population of elderly men.", "content": "Smoking-related changes in cerebral perfusion in a population of elderly men. Smoking and hypertension are known causes of stroke and dementia. This study was designed to test the longitudinal effect of lifestyle factors and hypertension on cerebral blood flow (CBF) in old age. A study of an unselected population cohort of 703 men, born in 1914, has been in progress since 1968 and the last clinical examination occurred at age 69. CBF was examined in 129 survivors who reached 82 years, using SPECT. At the age of 69, the study subjects consisted of 36 smokers, 37 nonsmokers and 56 former smokers who had quit. Fourteen years later, there were no differences in CBF among them. The cohort was stratified into 69 hypertensive and 60 normotensive men. CBF in normotensives was lowest in smokers and highest in nonsmokers. No CBF differences were observed in hypertensive men regarding smoking, but their CBF was as low as in normotensive smokers. Hypertensives had a higher BMI, and higher blood glucose and triglyceride levels, but lower alcohol consumption at 69 and a lower ankle-brachial pressure index at 82 years. Alcohol consumption was highest in normotensive smokers. Smoking and high alcohol consumption in normotensive men are correlated to low CBF in senescence. Low CBF in hypertensive men regardless of smoking may be due to a high vascular risk profile."}
{"id": "18295510", "title": "Nicotinic alpha4beta2 receptor binding in dementia with Lewy bodies using 123I-5IA-85380 SPECT demonstrates a link between occipital changes and visual hallucinations.", "content": "Nicotinic alpha4beta2 receptor binding in dementia with Lewy bodies using 123I-5IA-85380 SPECT demonstrates a link between occipital changes and visual hallucinations. To investigate in vivo differences in the distribution of alpha4beta2 subtypes of nAChR using the ligand (123)I-5-Iodo-3-[2(S)-2-azetidinylmethoxy] pyridine (5IA-85380) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in DLB and similarly aged controls. Thirty-one subjects (15 DLB and 16 controls) underwent (123)I-5IA-85380 and perfusion ((99m)Tc-exametazime) SPECT scanning. Patient scans were compared to scans of control subjects on a voxel-by-voxel basis using SPM2. Compared to controls, significant reductions in relative (123)I-5IA-85380 uptake were identified in frontal, striatal, temporal and cingulate regions in DLB. Elevation of scaled (123)I-5IA-85380 uptake in occipital cortex was observed in DLB relative to controls, as well as being associated with DLB subjects with a recent history of visual hallucinations. Changes in (123)I-5IA-85380 SPECT in DLB were different from perfusion. Reductions in normalised (123)I-5IA-85380 uptake in DLB were distinct from their perfusion deficits. Significant increase in occipital lobe uptake was present in DLB, a change most pronounced in subjects with a recent history of visual hallucinations. The findings directly link cholinergic changes in occipital lobe to visual hallucinations in DLB."}
{"id": "18283251", "title": "Multitracer study in Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: mismatch pattern of cerebral hypometabolism and perfusion imaging.", "content": "Multitracer study in Heidenhain variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: mismatch pattern of cerebral hypometabolism and perfusion imaging. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a subacute spongiform encephalopathy. This fatal prion disease is characterized by rapidly progressive dementia with a variety of neurological disorders. Diagnostic methods provided by nuclear medicine might be helpful for evaluation of patients with probable CJD as additional diagnostic tools to MRI and cerebro-spinal fluid evaluation. The experience with FDG-PET and brain perfusion SPECT is presented."}
{"id": "18234228", "title": "Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and CD4+ T-lymphocytopenia in a patient with Sj\u00f6gren syndrome.", "content": "Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and CD4+ T-lymphocytopenia in a patient with Sj\u00f6gren syndrome. We report progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) and CD4+ T-lymphocytopenia in a 71-year-old man with Sj\u00f6gren syndrome (SjS). The patient was admitted to our hospital because of progressive dementia and gait disturbance. T2-weighted MR images showed high-intensity lesions in his left frontal white matter thalamus, cerebellum and brainstem. A pathological diagnosis of PML was made by brain biopsy. SjS is frequently accompanied with immunological complications; however, there are few reports on PML in patients with SjS. Recently, isolated CD4+ T-lymphocytopenia is reported to be one of the based immunological conditions associated with the development of PML. In the present case, CD4+ T-lymphocytopenia was also observed on admission, which is also associated with SjS."}
{"id": "18223126", "title": "The Japanese MCI screen for early detection of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.", "content": "The Japanese MCI screen for early detection of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Early detection of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders in Japan is increasingly important. The Mild Cognitive Impairment Screen (MCIS)-derived from the National Institute of Aging CERAD neuropsychologic battery-differentiates normal aging from MCI and mild dementia with 97.3% and 99% accuracy, respectively. The Japanese MCIS (JMCIS), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), quantitative SPECT (qSP), and quantitative MRI (qMRI) were used to classify 63 outpatients at Fukuoka University Hospital who were either normal or had MCI based on Clinical Dementia Rating scores of 0 and 0.5, respectively. Performance statistics for the JMCIS, MMSE, qSP, and qMRI were, respectively: (1) accuracy = 0.964, 0.768, 0.722, 0.733; (2) sensitivity = 0.958, 0.792, 0.688, 0.700; (3) specificity = 1.000, 0.625, 1.000, 1.000; and (4) kappa validity = 0.813, 0.420, 0.296, 0.308. This initial study shows negligible differences between the English and Japanese MCIS, supporting its potential use for early detection in Japan."}
{"id": "18214473", "title": "Imaging of the dopaminergic system in differential diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Imaging of the dopaminergic system in differential diagnosis of dementia. Neurodegenerative dementia is an increasingly common disorder with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) accounting for most cases. Due to the overlap in clinical symptoms, their differential diagnosis may be challenging. As clinical classification is not completely satisfying, there is a need to improve the diagnostic accuracy by complementary methods such as functional single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The latter may be helpful to address one distinct biological difference between DLB and AD, the severe nigrostriatal degeneration which occurs in DLB, but not to any significant extent in AD. Based on this principle, autoradiographic studies targeting presynaptic dopaminergic functions have consistently demonstrated the ability to distinguish DLB from AD in postmortem series. At the same time, several single-site and one multicentre study have independently confirmed--no matter what technique was used (SPECT or PET) and which presynaptic function was addressed (dopamine turnover, dopamine transporter, vesicular monoamine transporter)--significantly compromised scan results in DLB subjects, whereas AD patients maintained almost normal findings. Even more important, in vivo findings of presynaptic dopaminergic imaging correlated well with neuropathological findings at autopsy, suggesting a remarkable sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 100% for the imaging procedure to distinguish between DLB and AD. Taken together, imaging of presynaptic dopaminergic terminal functions with SPECT and PET has currently the greatest evidence base to support its use, and therefore, may be highly recommended to help in the discrimination between DLB and AD. Compared to presynaptic functions, corresponding data targeting postsynaptic dopamine receptors are comparatively rare, less conclusive and suggest a very limited role for this purpose. This review discusses the findings of studies specifically dealing with imaging of the dopaminergic system in the differential diagnosis of dementia."}
{"id": "18207114", "title": "Current and future uses of neuroimaging for cognitively impaired patients.", "content": "Current and future uses of neuroimaging for cognitively impaired patients. Technological advances have led to greater use of both structural and functional brain imaging to assist with the diagnosis of dementia for the increasing numbers of people with cognitive decline as they age. In current clinical practice, structural imaging (CT or MRI) is used to identify space-occupying lesions and stroke. Functional methods, such as PET scanning of glucose metabolism, could be used to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal dementia, which helps to guide clinicians in symptomatic treatment strategies. New neuroimaging methods that are currently being developed can measure specific neurotransmitter systems, amyloid plaque and tau tangle concentrations, and neuronal integrity and connectivity. Successful co-development of neuroimaging surrogate markers and preventive treatments might eventually lead to so-called brain-check scans for determining risk of cognitive decline, so that physicians can administer disease-modifying medications, vaccines, or other interventions to avoid future cognitive losses and to delay onset of disease."}
{"id": "18204253", "title": "Early discriminatory diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. The emerging role of CSF and imaging biomarkers.", "content": "Early discriminatory diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. The emerging role of CSF and imaging biomarkers. The clinical diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) have a low sensitivity, and there are no generally accepted biomarkers to distinguish DLB from other dementias. Our aim was to identify biomarkers that may differentiate DLB from Alzheimer's disease (AD). We performed a systematic literature search for studies of EEG, imaging techniques and genetic and CSF markers that provide sensitivity and specificity in the identification of DLB. The best evidence was for scintigraphy of the striatal dopamine transporter system using FP-CIT SPECT. Several small scintigraphy studies of cardiovascular autonomic function using metaiodobenzylguanidine SPECT have reported promising results. Studies exploring innovative techniques based on CSF have reported interesting findings for the combination of amyloid beta (abeta) isoforms as well as alpha-synuclein, and there are interesting results emerging from preliminary studies applying proteomic techniques. Data from studies using structural MRI, perfusion SPECT, genetics and EEG studies show differences between DLB and AD but only at a group level. Several potential biomarkers for the differential diagnosis of probable DLB and AD have shown good diagnostic accuracy in the research setting. Data from large multicentre studies and from studies with autopsy confirmation exist for scintigraphy of the dopamine transporter system. Future studies should explore its value in possible DLB and for clinical management and health economics."}
{"id": "18195271", "title": "Clinicopathologic study of a SNCA gene duplication patient with Parkinson disease and dementia.", "content": "Clinicopathologic study of a SNCA gene duplication patient with Parkinson disease and dementia."}
{"id": "18176077", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of consensus diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal dementia in a memory clinic population.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of consensus diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal dementia in a memory clinic population. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the core diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal dementia (FTD) [Neary D, et al: Neurology 1998;51:1546-1554] within a memory clinic population. The 5 core diagnostic criteria for FTD were operationalised in an informant-based written questionnaire. For a diagnosis of FTD the total clinical picture was weighted with findings on additional investigations and possible exclusion criteria, with follow-up of at least 1 year. The operationalised core criteria for FTD had a sensitivity of 79% (95% CI = 57-92) and a specificity of 90% (95% CI = 85-94). The core diagnostic criteria for FTD applied in a caregiver questionnaire have good diagnostic accuracy among subjects without advanced dementia attending a memory clinic. This stresses the importance of the informant-based history in the differential diagnosis of dementia."}
{"id": "18042240", "title": "(99m)Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer brain SPECT findings in early stage of dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease patients: a correlation with neuropsychological tests.", "content": "(99m)Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer brain SPECT findings in early stage of dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease patients: a correlation with neuropsychological tests. We examined clinical presentations, neuropsychological findings, and perfusion patterns of (99m)Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in patients with early stage dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) (n = 17) and Parkinson's disease (PD) (n = 16), with age-matched healthy controls (n = 10). Seven paired regions of interest (ROIs) were drawn manually including inferior frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, parieto-occipital junction, striatum and thalamus for semiquantitative measurement. Neuropsychological tests were applied for clinical correlation. The SPECT results showed significant hypoperfusion in DLB group in frontal, parietal, thalamus, temporal ROIs compared with controls (P < 0.01) whilst signals in temporal areas was significantly reduced compared with PD group (P < 0.05). Neuropsychological tests showed that DLB patients had deficits in mental manipulation, short-term memory, abstract thinking, drawing and semantic verbal fluencies (P < 0.05, compared with control). In addition, DLB group had lower scores than those with PD in mental manipulation, drawing and semantic verbal fluency (P < 0.05). Our study showed that even in early stages of DLB, neuropsychological and perfusion patterns were evident and may be different from PD group, despite they shared certain similarities both in neuropsychological and image findings compared with age-matched controls."}
{"id": "18031760", "title": "A serial study of regional cerebral blood flow deficits in patients with left anterior thalamic infarction: anatomical and neuropsychological correlates.", "content": "A serial study of regional cerebral blood flow deficits in patients with left anterior thalamic infarction: anatomical and neuropsychological correlates. Thalamic damage is associated with a variety of neuropsychological dysfunctions, as well as strategic infarct dementia. However, only a limited number of reports in the medical literature have discussed the correlation between the clinical findings and the specific functional changes observed on images. We investigated the neuropsychological correlation of the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) deficits in four patients with left anterior thalamic infarction within two days after their stroke. All of the patients showed anterograde amnesia on the verbal memory test. Some dysexecutive features were present such as decreased word fluency and an impaired performance on the Stroop test. A decreased rCBF was observed in the left supramarginal gyrus, the superior temporal gyrus, the middle and inferior frontal gyri, and the medial dorsal and anterior nuclei of the left thalamus. The changes of rCBF may have been due to remote suppression by the interruption of the thalamo-cortical circuit that connects the anterior thalamic nucleus and various cortical areas. These initial findings remained unchanged even on the follow-up studies."}
{"id": "17968545", "title": "Dopamine transporter imaging with [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT: potential effects of drugs.", "content": "Dopamine transporter imaging with [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT: potential effects of drugs. [(123)I]N-omega-fluoropropyl-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-{4-iodophenyl}nortropane ([(123)I]FP-CIT) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a frequently and routinely used technique to detect or exclude dopaminergic degeneration by imaging the dopamine transporter (DAT) in parkinsonian and demented patients. This technique is also used in scientific studies in humans, as well as in preclinical studies to assess the availability of DAT binding in the striatum. In routine clinical studies, but also in scientific studies, patients are frequently on medication and sometimes even use drugs of abuse. Moreover, in preclinical studies, animals will be anesthetized. Prescribed drugs, drugs of abuse, and anesthetics may influence the visual interpretation and/or quantification of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans. Here, we discuss the basic principle of how drugs and anesthetics might influence the visual interpretation and/or quantification of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans. We also review drugs which are likely to have a significant influence on the visual interpretation and/or quantification of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans. Additionally, we discuss the evidence as to whether frequently prescribed drugs in parkinsonian and demented patients may have an influence on the visual interpretation and/or quantification of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans. Finally, we discuss our recommendations as to which drugs should be ideally withdrawn before performing a [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scan for routine clinical purposes. The decision to withdraw any medication must always be made by the specialist in charge of the patient's care and taking into account the pros and cons of doing so."}
{"id": "17955237", "title": "No significant effects of single intravenous, single oral and subchronic oral administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors on striatal [123I]FP-CIT binding in rats.", "content": "No significant effects of single intravenous, single oral and subchronic oral administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors on striatal [123I]FP-CIT binding in rats. [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT is a valuable diagnostic tool to discriminate Lewy body dementia from Alzheimer's dementia. To date, however, it is uncertain whether the frequently used acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) by demented patients, have an effect on [(123)I]FP-CIT binding to dopamine transporters (DATs). Earlier animal studies showed a decline of DAT availability after acute intravenous injection of AChEIs. The aim of this study was to investigate effects of single intravenous, single oral and subchronic oral administration of AChEIs on DAT availability in the rat brain as measured by [(123)I]FP-CIT. Biodistribution studies were performed in Wistar rats (n = 5-16 per group). Before [(123)I]FP-CIT injection, rats were injected intravenously with a single dose of the AChEI rivastigmine (2.5 mg/kg body weight) or donepezil (0.5 mg/kg), the DAT-blocker methylphenidate (10 mg/kg) or saline. A second group was orally treated with a single dose of rivastigmine or donepezil (2.5 mg/kg), methylphenidate (10 mg/kg) or saline before injection of [(123)I]FP-CIT. Studies were also performed in rats that were orally treated during 14 consecutive days with either rivastigmine (1 mg/kg daily), donepezil (1.5 mg/kg daily), methylphenidate (2.5 mg/kg) or saline. Brain parts were assayed in a gamma counter, and specific striatum/cerebellum ratios were calculated for the [(123)I]FP-CIT binding to DATs. No significant effects of either single intravenous, single oral or subchronic oral administration of AChEIs on striatal FP-CIT binding could be detected. Single pretreatment with methylphenidate resulted in an expected significantly lower striatal FP-CIT binding. We conclude that in rats, single intravenous and single or subchronic oral administration of the tested AChEIs does not lead to an important alteration of [(123)I]FP-CIT binding to striatal DATs. Therefore, it is unlikely that these drugs will induce large effects on the interpretation of [(123)I]FP-CIT SPECT scans in routine clinical studies."}
{"id": "17900799", "title": "Striatal dopamine transporter levels correlate with apathy in neurodegenerative diseases A SPECT study with partial volume effect correction.", "content": "Striatal dopamine transporter levels correlate with apathy in neurodegenerative diseases A SPECT study with partial volume effect correction. The aim of the present study was to stress the relationship between neuropsychiatric symptoms and most particularly apathy and striatal dopamine uptake in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or dementia with Lewy body (DLB). Twenty-two patients (AD n=14; DLB n=8) were included. All patients had neuropsychological and behavioral examination including Mini Mental Test Examination (MMSE), Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), and UPDRS for the motor activity assessment. Apathy dimensions, emotional blunting, lack of initiative and lack of interest were assessed using the Apathy Inventory (AI). Dopamine transporter (DAT) striatal uptake was assessed using (123)I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) SPECT. Quantitative measurements were obtained in 3D using a method which compensates for physical detection biases including partial volume effect. We observed a correlation between DAT uptake and NPI's domains only for apathy. More specifically using the AI, lack of initiative significantly correlated with bilateral putamen DAT uptake. Using partial correlation coefficients controlling for the UPDRS score, the correlation remained significant between lack of initiative and right and left putamen DAT uptake. These results demonstrate a relationship between apathy and DAT levels independent from motor activity. They suggest that the patients with neurodegenerative diseases presenting with apathy are characterized by some degree of dopaminergic neuronal loss."}
{"id": "17869272", "title": "Serum heart-fatty acid binding protein levels in patients with Lewy body disease.", "content": "Serum heart-fatty acid binding protein levels in patients with Lewy body disease. In order to examine a possible role of serum heart-fatty acid binding protein (H-FABP) in patients with Lewy body disease, we measured serum levels of H-FABP in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Serum levels of H-FABP were measured using a solid-phase enzyme-linked immunoassay. Iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine ((123)I-MIBG) cardiac scintigraphy was performed on each patient and the heart to mediastinum (H/M) ratio was calculated. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to calculate the optimal cutoff values of the H-FABP between DLB and AD patients. Independent predictive variables for serum H-FABP levels were analyzed using multivariate regression analysis. Serum levels of H-FABP were significantly higher in DLB patients and PD patients than in AD patients. H/M ratios of the DLB and PD patients were significantly lower than those of AD patients. The diagnostic value of the serum H-FABP levels between AD and DLB patients was inferior to that of the delayed H/M ratio of (123)I-MIBG cardiac scintigraphy. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that the delayed H/M ratio predicted serum H-FABP levels in the PD patients. Examination of serum H-FABP levels did not allow discrimination between DLB and AD patients. Cardiac sympathetic nerve dysfunction may be associated with elevation of serum H-FABP in Lewy body disease patients."}
{"id": "17767812", "title": "Omentum transposition surgery for patients with Alzheimer's disease: a case series.", "content": "Omentum transposition surgery for patients with Alzheimer's disease: a case series. To examine effect of omentum transposition surgery (OT) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Within-subjects design, also known as repeated-measures design, was used. OT was performed on six biopsy-confirmed AD patients (three to the left and right hemispheres each). Follow-up was conducted over 16-50 months. Outcome measures included the sum of the sub-scores of the clinical dementia rating scale (CDRSS), dementia severity rating scale (DSRS), mini-mental status exam (MMSE) and neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI), all normalized to 0-1.0. Outcomes were compared to baseline values and to expected decline with and without cholinesterase inhibitors therapy (ChEI). Compared to baseline and to expected decline with ChEI, CDRSS scores were 22 and 39% less impaired at means of 14 and 25 months post-OT, and DSRS scores were 12 and 22% less impaired at means of 14 and 19 months post-OT (p<0.0001). Compared to baseline and expected course with and without ChEI, the MMSE scores of the left hemisphere OT patients were not significantly different for 11, 17 and 22 months respectively (p>0.49), while those of the right hemisphere OT patients more rapidly declined. The two patients with significant pre-operative behavioral problems markedly improved; NPI severity scores decreased by 23 (16%) and 78 (54%) points and were sustained for 22 and 42 months. OT yielded cognitive, functional or behavioral improvement for up to 3.5 years in these AD patients. Compared to randomized ChEI clinical trials, OT was 34 times more likely to produce clinically significant improvement. Basic research to identify the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect of omentum is warranted."}
{"id": "17664050", "title": "Inappropriate intracranial hemodynamics in the natural course of MELAS.", "content": "Inappropriate intracranial hemodynamics in the natural course of MELAS. The abnormalities of intracranial hemodynamics associated with strokelike episodes in MELAS are variable depend on the time phase from the onset of strokelike episodes and on the progression of the dementia state. To clarify the regional cerebral blood flows (rCBF) in the natural course of MELAS is very important to understand the pathogenic mechanism of this disorder, either cytopathy, angiopathy or both. We analyzed the serial studies of brain statistical parametric mapping (SPM) 99 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in 5 MELAS patients in maximum 10 years interval, who fulfilled the clinical, pathological and genetic criteria of MELAS, and have an A3243G mutation in the mitochondrial tRNA(Leu(UUR)) gene. SPM is a proven and effective method for the voxel-by-voxel analysis of functional images which show the advantage in its promise of fully automated neurophysiological imaging analysis throughout the whole brain using various statistical analyses. SPECT acquisition was initiated and was reconstructed by iterative algorithm and were processed and analyzed with SPM 99 for Windows software. Statistics were displayed as Z scores (threshold: P < 0.01). The inappropriate intracranial hemodynamics was found not only at the acute but at the interictal phase, and was getting worse as the disease progress. Hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex was always observed (corrected P < 0.01) in MELAS patients, which is the typical finding reported in Alzheimer's disease. The inappropriate intracranial hemodynamics is a common feature and may be related with mitochondrial angiopathy in the natural course of MELAS."}
{"id": "17408808", "title": "Psychosis of Alzheimer's disease: Gender differences in regional perfusion.", "content": "Psychosis of Alzheimer's disease: Gender differences in regional perfusion. We sought to determine whether the presence of psychotic symptoms in patients with Alzheimer's disease is associated with abnormal regional cerebral function. Perfusion single photon emission computed tomography images from 51 AD patients with psychotic symptoms were compared to images of 52 AD patients without such symptoms. Group comparisons were made with a voxel-based method, Statistical Parametric Mapping. We found that perfusion was lower in female patients with psychotic symptoms in right infero-lateral prefrontal cortex and in inferior temporal regions compared to female patients without such symptoms. In contrast, perfusion was higher in male patients with psychotic symptoms in the right striatum compared to male patients without such symptoms. Comparison groups did not differ in age or in dementia severity, as estimated by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). These results support the role of right hemisphere prefrontal and lateral temporal cortex in the psychosis of AD in women but not in men, and raise the possibility that these dysfunctional processes have a gender-specific regional pathophysiology in AD."}
{"id": "17157414", "title": "A novel deletion in progranulin gene is associated with FTDP-17 and CBS.", "content": "A novel deletion in progranulin gene is associated with FTDP-17 and CBS. In the last decade familial frontotemporal dementia (FFTD) has emerged as a distinct clinical disease entity characterized by clinical and genetic heterogeneity. Here, we provide an extensive clinical and genetic characterization of two Italian pedigrees presenting with FFTD (FAM047: 5 patients, 5 unaffected; FAM071: 4 patients, 11 unaffected). Genetic analysis showed a conclusive linkage (LOD score for D17S791/D17S951: 4.173) to chromosome 17 and defined a candidate region containing MAPT and PGRN genes. Recombination analysis assigned two different disease haplotypes to FAM047 and FAM071. In affected subjects belonging to both families, we identified a novel 4 bp deletion mutation in exon 7 of PGRN gene (Leu271LeufsX10) associated with a variable clinical presentation ranging from FTDP-17 to corticobasal syndrome. The age-related penetrance was gender dependent. Both mutations in MAPT and PGRN genes are associated with highly variable clinical phenotypes. Despite the profound differences in the biological functions of the encoded proteins, it is not possible to define a clinical phenotype distinguishing the disease caused by mutations in MAPT and PGRN genes."}
{"id": "18445747", "title": "Role of imaging techniques in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Role of imaging techniques in the diagnosis of dementia. Dementia is a common and growing problem, affecting 5% of the over 65 s and 20% of the over 80s. The recent availability of new treatments for dementia, as well as the importance of subtype-specific management, has renewed interest in the use of brain imaging techniques that can assist in the accurate recognition of Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), vascular dementia (VaD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Structural imaging, historically used to exclude an intracerebral lesion as a cause for dementia, is increasingly playing a role in \"ruling in\" diagnoses, with atrophy of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex an early and sensitive marker for AD, and cortical and subcortical infarcts and white matter lesions characteristic of VaD. Regionally distinct patterns of hypoperfusion on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) can help differentiate FTD, AD and VaD, and dopaminergic loss in the basal ganglia can differentiate DLB from AD. Newer techniques show great promise to detect specific neuroreceptor changes as well as pathological underpinnings of dementia, such as amyloid and tau pathology."}
{"id": "18445745", "title": "SPECT imaging in dementia.", "content": "SPECT imaging in dementia. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a non-invasive functional neuroimaging technique that can be used in the diagnosis of dementia. This review describes some of the SPECT radiotracers available for imaging dementia patients and discusses recommendations for the clinical use of this imaging technique."}
{"id": "18445740", "title": "Imaging of mild cognitive impairment and early dementia.", "content": "Imaging of mild cognitive impairment and early dementia. The concept of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has been introduced to describe older individuals who cognitively lie between normal ageing and dementia. Nowadays, there is a particular interest in MCI because this syndrome is thought to be a transitional stage to Alzheimer's disease (AD) that may define a window for effective therapeutic interventions. However, not all patients with MCI will go on to develop AD. Imaging offers an extraordinary opportunity to study MCI. We will review key findings of brain imaging studies in MCI, including structural brain changes studied with MRI, white matter changes with diffusion tensor imaging and altered brain activity and blood flow studied with various imaging modalities, such as positron emission tomography, single-photon emission computed tomography and arterial spin labelling MRI, a non-invasive approach to measure cerebral blood flow. The strength and limitations of each modality for diagnosis of MCI, prediction of MCI outcome and assessment of drug efficacy will be discussed."}
{"id": "18330212", "title": "Investigating the dopaminergic synapse in vivo. I. Molecular imaging studies in humans.", "content": "Investigating the dopaminergic synapse in vivo. I. Molecular imaging studies in humans. Dopaminergic synaptic function may be assessed either at the presynaptic terminal or at the postsynaptic binding sites using molecular in vivo imaging methods. Apart from the density of binding sites, parameters such as alterations in dopamine synthesis, dopamine storage or dopamine release can be quantified either by application of specific radiotracers or by assessing the competition between the exogenous radioligand and endogenous dopamine. Investigations of humans in both clinical and experimental settings have yielded evidence that disturbances of dopaminergic function may be associated with numerous neurological and psychiatric conditions, among which are movement disorders, schizophrenia, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, depression and drug abuse. This article gives an overview of those studies, which so far have been performed on dopaminergic neurotransmission in humans using in vivo imaging methods. We focus on disease-related deficiencies within the functional entity of the dopaminergic synapse. Taken together, in vivo findings yield evidence of presynaptic dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease with decreases in striatal dopamine synthesis, dopamine storage, dopamine release and dopamine transporter binding. In contrast, 'Parkinson plus' syndromes (multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, dementia with Lewy bodies) are characterized by both pre- and postsynaptic deficiencies with reductions in striatal dopamine synthesis, dopamine storage, dopamine release, and dopamine transporter, as well as D, and D, receptor binding. In patients with Huntington's disease, postsynaptic dysfunctions with reductions of striatal D1 and D2 receptor binding have become apparent, whereas attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder is mainly characterized by presynaptic deficits with increases in dopamine transporter binding. Interestingly, findings are also consistent with respect to drug abuse: cocaine, amphetamine, methylphenidate, heroin, alcohol and nicotine invariably act via enhancement of dopamine release in dorsal and/ or ventral striatal regions. In vivo findings additionally suggest that not only D2 receptor binding but also the extent of dopamine release is lower in individuals with a history of drug abuse. Findings become inconsistent with increasing complexities of psychiatric conditions. As yet, there is no clear evidence as to the contributions of the individual presynaptic and postsynaptic constituents of the dopaminergic synapse to the pathophysiologies of schizophrenia and depression. As these diseases can be conceived as the result of a variety of dysfunctions and dysregulations within an intricate network of neurotransmitter systems, regional investigations of one single pre- or postsynaptic constituent may not reach far enough to disentagle the interrelationships between the constituents of one let alone a variety of neurotransmitter systems."}
{"id": "18229791", "title": "Central nervous system neurodegeneration and tinnitus: a clinical experience. Part I: Diagnosis.", "content": "Central nervous system neurodegeneration and tinnitus: a clinical experience. Part I: Diagnosis. In an evolving clinical experience since 1979, the medical significance of the symptom of tinnitus has been identified as a \"soft\" sign of neurodegeneration (ND) in the central nervous system (CNS) in a particular subset of tinnitus patients diagnosed with a predominantly central-type, severe, disabling, subjective idiopathic tinnitus. To highlight this experience, a retrospective review and analysis of consecutive tinnitus patients (N = 96) was conducted. Ninety-six tinnitus patients (ages 22-90 years) were seen in neurotological consultation from November 1, 2005, to June 30, 2007, all of whom had subjective idiopathic tinnitus of the severe disabling type (SIT). Of these 96 patients, 54 had SIT of the predominantly central type and of these, 18 (ages 39-75 years) were recommended for nuclear medicine imaging (single-photon emission computed tomography [SPECT] and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography [FDG-PET/CT]). Patient selection for nuclear medicine imaging fulfilled the criteria of a medical-audiological ND tinnitus profile: completion of a patient protocol that diagnosed a predominantly central-type, severe, disabling, subjective, idiopathic tinnitus lasting in excess of 1 year, and failure of existing modalities of treatment attempting tinnitus relief. In 16 of the 18 patients, objective evidence of ND was reported in multiple neural substrates of brain obtained with SPECT or FDG-PET/CT of brain. Classification of CNS ND and tinnitus differentiated between (1) ND of nonspecific or unknown etiology; (2) ND manifested by perfusion asymmetries in brain associated with ischemia (n = 11/18); and (3) neurodegenerative CNS disease consistent with nuclear medicine criteria for senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (n = 5/18). The diagnosis has been associated with cerebrovascular disease (n = 16/18). The identification of neurodegenerative CNS disease in a selected cohort of patients with subjective idiopathic tinnitus as a soft sign of such CNS disease has implications for diagnosis and treatment."}
{"id": "18210850", "title": "[Clinical aspects, imaging and neuropathology of Kii ALS/PDC].", "content": "[Clinical aspects, imaging and neuropathology of Kii ALS/PDC]. During 1996 and 2006, we examined clinically 37 patients and neuropathologically 13 autopsy cases with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/parkinsonism-dementia complex of the Kii peninsula (Kii ALS/PDC). The ages of onset were between 52 years and 74 years (mean age: 65.3 years). The male to female ratio was 1:1.85. The ratio of positive family history where ALS or PDC occurred within the fourth degree of the relatives was 78.4% in the patients with Kii ALS/PDC. The average duration of the illness was 6.47 years. Kii ALS/PDC was divided into five clinical subtypes, pure ALS form, ALS with dementia form, PDC with parkinsonism predominant form, PDC with dementia predominant form (that is called late-life dementia in Guam) and PDC with ALS features form. Unique pigmentary retinopathy was found in 33.3% of the patients with Kii ALS/PDC. CT/MRI images showed atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes and SPECT images showed a decrease in the blood flow of the frontal and temporal lobes. The cardiac 123I-MIBG uptake was decreased in 4 out of 8 patients with ALS/PDC and the decrease in uptake correlated with the modified Hoehn-Yahr staging. The cardinal neuropathological features of Kii ALS/PDC were abundant neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) associated with loss of nerve cells in the cerebral cortex and the brain stem, and findings of ALS neuropathology. Ultrastructurally, NFTs consisted of paired helical filaments. Tau protein, a main component of NFTs, was consisted of 3R and 4R tau isoforms, and phosphoryrated at 18 sites of tau phosphoryrated sites. The neurons of dentate gyrus of hippocampus and anterior horn cells were stained with anti-TDP-43 antibody. The clinical and neuropathological aspects of Kii ALS/PDC are regarded as being identical with those of Guam ALS/PDC."}
{"id": "18210834", "title": "[Amyloid imaging].", "content": "[Amyloid imaging]. Amyloid imaging has recently emerged as a non-invasive neuroimaging technique to visualize the accumulation of amyloid-beta in living brain. Several modalities such as PET, SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging has been adopted for this purpose, the nuclear medicine technique of PET firstly put it to practical use because of its high sensitivity. Among many radioligand tracers proposed, Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) has successfully spread over the world as a standard amyloid imaging probe. Several lines of evidence from PIB-PET study have suggest that the accumulation of amyloid beta start during the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and reaches plateau phase before or during the MCI stage. Therefore, the amyloid imaging may be useful as a biomarker of AD, not only for the very early specific diagnosis, but also for the monitoring the therapeutic effect with agents that reduce the accumulation of amyloid-beta in the brains of AD. The amyloid imaging technique is also useful to differentiate non-AD type degenerative disorders such as argiophilic grain dementia and neurofibrillary tangle dominant dementia, which are cumulatively called as tauopathies. In order to evaluate its diagnostic power, and pathophysiological significance of accumulation, further prospective study and pathology-PET comparison are essential."}
{"id": "18210809", "title": "[Evaluation of dopaminergic presynaptic function by [F-18] DOPA PET].", "content": "[Evaluation of dopaminergic presynaptic function by [F-18] DOPA PET]. [F-18] fluorodopa ([F-18] DOPA) accumulates in the synaptic terminal of the dopaminergic neuron depending on the enzyme activity converting dopa into dopamine. The enzyme activity can be up/down-regulated by disease conditions, while the number of dopamine transporter is thought to be defined by the number of the synapse. There are four major pathways of dopaminergic projection systems. The nigrostriatal pathway is particularly involved in the production of movement, as part of a system called the basal ganglia motor loop. The mesocortila/ limbic pathway is be involved in cognitive function and motivation and emotional response. Dopaminergic functions in the extrastriatal area in addition to the striatum in vivo have been visualized with the combination of [F-18] DOPA PET and statistical image analyses. Ito K found the significant differences of influx rate (Ki) calculated with voxel-by-voxel Patlak analysis among Parkinson's disease (PD), PD with dementia (PDD), and normal control. Compared with the normal group, SPM localized declines of the [F-18] DOPA Ki bilaterally in the putamen, the right caudate nucleus and the left ventral midbrain for the PD group. Compared with the normal group, the PDD group showed reduced [F-18] DOPA Ki bilaterally in the striatum, midbrain and anterior cingulate. A relative difference in 18F-dopa uptake between PD and PDD was the bilateral decline in the anterior cingulate area and ventral striatum and in the right caudate nucleus in the PDD group. Accordingly, we conclude that dementia in PD is associated with impaired mesolimbic and caudate dopaminergic function. The next question is whether the corresponding dopaminergic change exists in the neural ganglia in the midbrain. We developed a method optimaized for the statistical analysis of the brain stem. PD showed slight increase of Ki in the raphe nucleus and the locus ceruleus. In contrast, PDD demonstrated decline tendency of Ki in the raphe and the locus ceruleus. These suggest cognitive impairment in PDD is caused by the affected the mesolimbic dopaminergic system which originates in the ventral tegmental area. This finding corresponds to Braak's staging of the intracerebral inclusion body pathology associated with PD."}
{"id": "18048105", "title": "[Cerebral imaging and physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Cerebral imaging and physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by macroscopic cerebral damages which can be studied in vivo with neuroimaging techniques, even at the earliest stage. Studies were conducted in patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) who best represent incipient AD. Right temporo-parietal hypometabolism, assessed by resting-state (18)FDG-PET, distinguishes patients who further develop AD from those who remain stable. From the pre-dementia stage of MCI, atrophy of the hippocampal region detected with structural MRI contrasts with functional alteration of the posterior cingulate gyrus measured with (18)FDG-PET and SPECT. Results from resting-state fMRI confirm this pattern of functional abnormalities and highlight changes in the hippocampal region functional connectivity, decreased with the posterior cingulate region, and increased with some frontal areas. Altogether with a structural connectivity impairment highlighted by DTI, those results support the hypothesis of a dysconnexion between the hippocampal and the posterior cingulate regions. Finally, activation fMRI data support the hypothesis of a functional compensation involving not only the frontal cortex but also, at the pre-dementia stage, the hippocampal region. Thus, this synthesis focuses on the hypotheses of dysconnexion and functional compensation, suggested to explain the discrepancies between the structural and functional alteration patterns, as well as on relevant results from resting-state fMRI, DTI and activation fMRI studies. Furthermore, this synthesis emphasizes the relevance of neuroimaging for the early detection of AD."}
{"id": "18021694", "title": "[Effectiveness of 123I-ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in the diagnosis of Parkinsonian syndromes. A systematic review].", "content": "[Effectiveness of 123I-ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in the diagnosis of Parkinsonian syndromes. A systematic review]. Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most frequent neurodegenerative disease, affecting the 1-2 % of the population over 65. Around 20-24 % of diagnosed patients are estimated to be misdiagnosed. The aim of this paper is to assess the efficacy of DaTSCAN in the diagnosis of early PD and to determine the efficacy of 123I-FP in the differential diagnosis of vascular parkinsonism, drug-induced parkinsonism, essential tremor, Lewy body dementia (LBD) and Alzheimer disease (AD). Systematic review. Two independent investigators reviewed and selected the papers according to predefined selection criteria. The quality of the original studies was assessed using one specifically designed scale. Eleven original articles were included. No randomized clinical trials were found. Three papers assessed the effect of DaTSCAN in medication of patients and found that 17 to 69 % of the patients treatment changed after SPECT. Six studies assessed the change in the diagnosis for patients with parkinsonian syndromes after SPECT. Four of them showed that 123I-FP could be useful for the differential diagnosis between PD and non-degenerative disorders. One observed that ioflupane could help differentiate between PD and AD and between this last disease and LBD. The other investigation group showed that DaTSCAN could help in the differential diagnosis between PD and parkinsonian syndromes such as multisystem atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). The scientific evidence available indicates that 123I-FP can be useful to differentiate PD from essential tremor and vascular and drug-induced parkinsonism, and also to differentiate AD from LBD."}
{"id": "18021379", "title": "The role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "The role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment. The main purposes of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been moved from diagnosis of advanced AD to diagnosis of very early AD at a prodromal stage of mild cognitive impairment, prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD, and differential diagnosis from other diseases causing dementia. Structural MRI studies and functional studies using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are widely used in diagnosis of AD. Outstanding progress in diagnostic accuracy of these neuroimaging modalities has been obtained using statistical analysis on a voxel-by-voxel basis after spatial normalization of individual scans to a standardized brain-volume template instead of visual inspection or a conventional region of interest technique. In a very early stage of AD, this statistical approach revealed gray matter loss in the entorhinal and hippocampal areas and hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. These two findings might be related in view of anatomical knowledge that the regions are linked through the circuit of Papez. This statistical approach also offers prediction of conversion from MCI to AD. Presence of hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in parietal association areas and entorhinal atrophy at the MCI stage has been reported to predict rapid conversion to AD."}
{"id": "17990057", "title": "Cerebral perfusion correlates of conversion to Alzheimer's disease in amnestic mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion correlates of conversion to Alzheimer's disease in amnestic mild cognitive impairment. Aim of this study was to find cerebral perfusion correlates of conversion to dementia in patients with amnestic MCI. 17 healthy subjects (age = 69 +/- 3, 9 females), and 23 amnestic MCI patients (age = 70 +/- 6, 10 females) underwent brain MR scan and (99m)Tc ECD SPECT. Conversion to AD was ascertained on average 19 +/- 10 months after baseline: 9 had converted (age = 69 +/- 3, 4 females), and 14 had not (age = 71 +/- 8, 6 females). We processed SPECT images with SPM2 following an optimized protocol and performed a voxel-based statistical analysis comparing amnestic MCI patients converted to AD and non-converted to dementia vs controls. We assessed the effect of gray matter atrophy on the above results with SPM2 using an optimized Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) protocol. We compared significant hypoperfusion with significant atrophy on a voxel-byvoxel basis. In comparison with normal controls, amnestic MCI patients who converted to AD showed hypoperfusion in the right parahippocampal gyrus and left inferior temporal and fusiform gyri,whereas those who did not convert showed hypoperfusion in the retrosplenial cortex, precuneus and occipital gyri, mainly on the left side. We found no overlap between significant atrophy and significant hypoperfusion regions. Parahippocampal and inferior temporal hypoperfusion in amnestic MCI patients appears as a correlate of conversion to AD; hypoperfusion in the retrosplenial cortex is involved in memory impairment but does not seem the key prognostic indicator of conversion to dementia."}
{"id": "17969349", "title": "[Brain perfusion imaging in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia].", "content": "[Brain perfusion imaging in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia]. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies have been applied for evaluation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in various neurodegenerative disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and ALS with dementia (ALS-D). Brain perfusion SPECT using statistical image analysis is useful for accurate and objective diagnosis to evaluate slight decreases in rCBF, even in cases difficult to assess by visual inspection. We have used statistical parametric mapping (SPM), three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP), easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS) as statistical image analyses. ALS-D cases, even if a case manifests minimal mentality change, showed obvious rCBF reduction in the bilateral prefrontal area with some irregularity and laterality of its decrease. This abnormality was clear in ALS-D compared with classic ALS. Our study has demonstrated that brain perfusion SPECT imaging using statistical image analyses is quite useful as an adjunct to presume the existence of dementia in ALS, even if ALS patients have trouble in verbal or manual communication of the language because of progressive bulbar symptoms and muscle weakness. Thus, for ALS patients with any subtle signs and symptoms suggesting dementia, we recommend a SPECT study with use of statistical image analyses."}
{"id": "17969308", "title": "[Nuclear neuroimaging of dopamine transporter in Parkinsonism--role in routine clinical practice].", "content": "[Nuclear neuroimaging of dopamine transporter in Parkinsonism--role in routine clinical practice]. Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterized pathologically by the degeneration of dopaminergic neuron in the substantia nigra and production of intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies (Lewy body) in the retained neurons. Clinically, the disease is characterized by the presence of tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia. These clinical features also occur in other neurodegenerative diseases and by dopamine receptor antagonist drugs. Brain SPECT imaging of the dopamine transporter (DAT) with specific radioligands is a sensitive method for examining the integrity of the presynaptic dopaminergic system. However, with this main clinical application it is hard to diagnose patients with mild, incomplete, or uncertain Parkinsonism. The ligands belong to a group of compounds derived from cocaine that bind to the dopamine transporter and include \u00e2-CIT, IPT, TRODAT-1, FP-CIT tagged with either Iod-123 or Technetium-99m radioisotopes. DAT imaging is abnormal even in the earliest clinical presentation of IPD but a normal scan suggests an alternative diagnosis such as essential tremor, vascular Parkinsonism, drug-induced Parkinsonism, or psychogenic Parkinsonism."}
{"id": "17952007", "title": "Visual rating and ROI-based parametric analysis of rCBF SPECT in patients with mild or questionable dementia: a comparative study.", "content": "Visual rating and ROI-based parametric analysis of rCBF SPECT in patients with mild or questionable dementia: a comparative study. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of visual image rating as compared to parametric analysis of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured with SPECT in patients referred to a memory clinic for diagnostic evaluation of cognitive symptoms. SPECT with (99m)Tc-HMPAO was used to determine rCBF in 47 patients and 26 healthy control subjects. The 47 patients (30 F/17 M) had a mean age of 74.6 years (range = 62-88) and mild or questionable dementia with an MMSE score of 24.8 (range = 20-30). Two experienced image readers blinded to the classifications and identity of subjects performed visual rating in consensus and the global and regional CBF patterns were evaluated and graded according to severity of hypoperfusion. Correlation coefficients were calculated using results from the parametric analyses as gold standard. The sensitivity and specificity of global visual rating (normal vs. abnormal SPECT) was 92 and 86%, respectively, yielding an overall accuracy of 89% for visual rating compared to parametric analysis. The correlation between visual rating and parametric analysis was highly significant (p < 0.001). Visual rating is a valid method for analyzing SPECT images in patients with mild or questionable dementia."}
{"id": "17934273", "title": "Subcortical hyperintensities in Alzheimer's disease: no clear relationship with executive function and frontal perfusion on SPECT.", "content": "Subcortical hyperintensities in Alzheimer's disease: no clear relationship with executive function and frontal perfusion on SPECT. To investigate relationships between subcortical hyperintensities (SH), frontal perfusion and executive function (EF) in a sample of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with varying severities of SH. A sample of 63 AD patients underwent brain imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans. Severity of SH was assessed using a standardized visual rating scale on MRI. Patients were classified into severe (n=20), moderate (n=23) or no SH (n=20) groups. Four frontal SPECT regions of interest (anterior cingulate cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and neuropsychological assessment of EF were analyzed. Overall, no significant relationships were found between severity of SH and measures of SPECT perfusion or EF, except for one subsection of the Dementia Rating Scale, with severe SH scoring slightly worse than the other two groups. These findings support previous studies which suggest minimal adverse effects of SH on brain function and cognition. Global severity of SH on MRI in AD was not associated with decline in frontal perfusion and only mildly related to a decline in a specific EF task. More accurate measures of SH volume, not just global severity of SH, may be necessary to capture such complex brain behavior relationships; if they do indeed exist."}
{"id": "17927803", "title": "Posterior cortical brain dysfunction in cognitively impaired patients with Parkinson's disease--a rCBF scintigraphy study.", "content": "Posterior cortical brain dysfunction in cognitively impaired patients with Parkinson's disease--a rCBF scintigraphy study. The aim of the study was to visualize cortical function in Parkinson's patients with various degrees of cognitive impairment. Thirty-seven patients with Parkinson's disease and three with Parkinson plus syndromes underwent cognitive assessment and rCBF using (99m)TC-HMPAO-SPECT. Almost no regional reductions in cerebral blood flow were seen in patients without cognitive impairment (n = 16). Limited, mainly posterior, blood flow reductions were seen in patients with mild cognitive impairment (n = 14), whereas the reductions were extensive and bilaterally symmetric, involving both anterior and posterior brain regions in patients with dementia (n = 10). The findings suggest a widespread cortical, mainly posterior type of dysfunction and a relationship between the degree of cognitive impairment and the magnitude of the dysfunction."}
{"id": "17922728", "title": "Constant blood flow reduction in premotor frontal lobe regions in ALS with dementia - a SPECT study with 3D-SSP.", "content": "Constant blood flow reduction in premotor frontal lobe regions in ALS with dementia - a SPECT study with 3D-SSP. OBJECTIVES - We investigated the regional cerebral blood flow in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALS-D) patients, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). MATERIALS AND METHODS - The (123)I-IMP SPECT data for 5 ALS-D and 16 ALS patients were analyzed using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP). RESULTS - 3D-SSP demonstrated marked prefrontal hypoperfusion in all the five ALS-D cases and significant bilateral prefrontal hypoperfusion in group comparisons. CONCLUSIONS - This study revealed prefrontal hypoperfusion in ALS-D cases to be an obvious abnormality with scientific objectivity."}
{"id": "17877736", "title": "Deep gray matter hyperperfusion with occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Deep gray matter hyperperfusion with occipital hypoperfusion in dementia with Lewy bodies. Although decreased occipital perfusion is a characteristic feature of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), not all patients with DLB show a significant decreased perfusion in the occipital lobe. We explored characteristics of perfusion changes to improve the identification of DLB, in addition to occipital hypoperfusion. Statistical image analysis of single photon emission computed tomography data was performed on 22 patients with DLB and 25 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). A significant decreased perfusion in the occipital lobe was found in 16 patients with DLB (72%) and three patients with AD (12%), while a significant increased perfusion in the deep gray matter (striatum and/or thalamus) was found in 18 patients with DLB (81%) and eight patients with AD (31%), respectively. Either occipital hypoperfusion or deep gray matter hyperperfusion was found in 21 patients with DLB (95%), while in nine patients with AD (35%), indicating a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 65% in discriminating DLB from AD. Our results suggest that the addition of deep gray matter hyperperfusion to occipital hypoperfusion may be useful in the clinical differentiation of DLB and AD."}
{"id": "17875040", "title": "Neurodegenerative disorders in schizophrenia.", "content": "Neurodegenerative disorders in schizophrenia."}
{"id": "17873141", "title": "Evaluation of probable or possible dementia with lewy bodies using 123I-IMP brain perfusion SPECT, 123I-MIBG, and 99mTc-MIBI myocardial SPECT.", "content": "Evaluation of probable or possible dementia with lewy bodies using 123I-IMP brain perfusion SPECT, 123I-MIBG, and 99mTc-MIBI myocardial SPECT. We evaluated the diagnostic usefulness of combination studies with a statistical mapping method in N-isopropyl-p-(123)I-iodoamphetamine ((123)I-IMP) brain perfusion SPECT, cardiac sympathetic nerve function by (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine ((123)I-MIBG), and myocardial function by electrocardiographically gated (99m)Tc-sestamibi ((99m)Tc-MIBI) SPECT for patients with probable or possible dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Twelve patients with probable DLB (7 male, 5 female; mean age +/- SD, 72.3 +/- 5.63 y; range, 65-82 y) and 9 patients with possible DLB (3 male, 6 female; mean age +/- SD, 73.1 +/- 9.23 y; range, 59-88 y) were enrolled in this study. (123)I-IMP SPECT images were analyzed with 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3D-SSP) and the severity of ischemia was classified objectively using quantitatively analytic and display software; stereotactic extraction estimation (SEE) methods were compared with a normal database. In addition, we evaluated (123)I-MIBG heart-to-mediastinum (H/M) uptake ratios. Moreover, we performed (99m)Tc-MIBI SPECT to evaluate myocardial perfusion and the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) compared with a normal database. 3D-SSP images of group comparison with healthy control subjects showed significantly decreased perfusion in the parietotemporal, occipital cortex, posterior cingulated, and precuneus regions in the probable DLB group but no significant reduction in the possible DLB group. Mean H/M ratios in the probable DLB group were significantly lower than those of the possible DLB group and the control group, respectively. Ten of 12 patients (83.3%) with probable DLB and 1 of 9 patients (11.1%) with possible DLB showed severe reduction in the bilateral occipital lobe and also a low (123)I-MIBG uptake. One patient (8.3%) with probable DLB and 2 patients (22.2%) with possible DLB showed no bilateral occipital hypoperfusion but showed low (123)I-MIBG uptake. One patient (8.3%) with probable DLB and 6 patients (66.7%) with possible DLB showed no occipital hypoperfusion and normal (123)I-MIBG uptake. (99m)Tc-MIBI gated SPECT did not indicate any wall motion abnormality in any subjects. These results suggest that combined examination of cerebral blood flow with 3D-SSP and SEE analysis, and cardiac sympathetic nerve function with (123)I-MIBG, would be a useful supporting diagnostic method in patients with DLB-particularly, in possible DLB and when cerebral blood flow does not indicate occipital hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "17786779", "title": "The \"steroid dementia syndrome\": a possible model of human glucocorticoid neurotoxicity.", "content": "The \"steroid dementia syndrome\": a possible model of human glucocorticoid neurotoxicity. Glucocorticoid medications cause neurotoxicity in animals under certain circumstances, but it is not known if this occurs in humans. We present the case of a 10-year-old boy with no prior psychiatric history and no prior exposure to glucocorticoid medication who received a single 5-week course of glucocorticoids for an acute asthma flare. Beginning during steroid treatment, and persisting for over 3 years after stopping treatment, he showed a significant decline from his pre-morbid academic performance and estimated IQ, verified by longitudinally administered testing and school records. Neuropsychological tests that are sensitive to glucocorticoid-induced cognitive impairments revealed global cognitive deficits consistent with primary hippocampal and prefrontal cortical dysfunction. The patient has a fraternal twin brother, who had previously achieved academic milestones in parallel with him; the patient began falling behind his twin in academic, developmental and social areas shortly after the steroid treatment. In the 3 years since stopping steroid medication, the patient has shown gradual but possibly incomplete resolution of his cognitive deficits. Quantitative brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), performed 38 months after steroid exposure revealed no gross abnormalities, but the patient's hippocampal volume was 19.5% smaller than that of his twin, despite the patient having a larger overall intracranial volume. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, performed at the same time, suggested subtly decreased activity in the left posterior frontal and left parietal lobes. This case, along with others reported in the literature, suggests that certain individuals develop a \"steroid dementia syndrome\" after glucocorticoid treatment. Although this syndrome is uncommon, it is consistent with evolving theories of the neurotoxic or neuroendangering potential of glucocorticoids in some situations."}
{"id": "17726249", "title": "De Clerambault's syndrome (erotomania) as a presenting feature of fronto-temporal dementia and motor neurone disease (FTD-MND).", "content": "De Clerambault's syndrome (erotomania) as a presenting feature of fronto-temporal dementia and motor neurone disease (FTD-MND)."}
{"id": "17697413", "title": "Intelligence quotient-adjusted memory impairment is associated with abnormal single photon emission computed tomography perfusion.", "content": "Intelligence quotient-adjusted memory impairment is associated with abnormal single photon emission computed tomography perfusion. Cognitive reserve among highly intelligent older individuals makes detection of early Alzheimer's disease (AD) difficult. We tested the hypothesis that mild memory impairment determined by IQ-adjusted norms is associated with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) perfusion abnormality at baseline and predictive of future decline. Twenty-three subjects with a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) score of 0, were reclassified after scores were adjusted for IQ into two groups, 10 as having mild memory impairments for ability (IQ-MI) and 13 as memory-normal (IQ-MN). Subjects underwent cognitive and functional assessments at baseline and annual follow-up for 3 years. Perfusion SPECT was acquired at baseline. At follow-up, the IQ-MI subjects demonstrated decline in memory, visuospatial processing, and phonemic fluency, and 6 of 10 had progressed to a CDR of 0.5, while the IQ-MN subjects did not show decline. The IQ-MI group had significantly lower perfusion than the IQ-MN group in parietal/precuneus, temporal, and opercular frontal regions. In contrast, higher perfusion was observed in IQ-MI compared with IQ-MN in the left medial frontal and rostral anterior cingulate regions. IQ-adjusted memory impairment in individuals with high cognitive reserve is associated with baseline SPECT abnormality in a pattern consistent with prodromal AD and predicts subsequent cognitive and functional decline."}
{"id": "17695280", "title": "[Familial prion disease (GSS, familial CJD, FFI)].", "content": "[Familial prion disease (GSS, familial CJD, FFI)]. We described clinically features of inherited prion disease (GSS, familial CJD and FFI). In addition, we found new useful findings of GSS patients for early diagnosis. Generally, clinicians believe that the main features of GSS (P102L) are cerebellar symptoms and dementia; however, our patients showed other features. Most showed mild gait disturbance, dysesthesia and hyporeflexia of the lower legs, proximal leg muscle weakness, and truncal ataxia during the early stage of the disease. Dementia was not a main symptom during the early stage. The key features for the early diagnosis of GSS102 are truncal ataxia, dysesthesia and hyporeflexia of the lower legs, and mild dysarthria. Normal cerebellar MRI and abnormal cerebral SPECT findings should be useful for early diagnosis of GSS (P102L)."}
{"id": "17688986", "title": "Successful treatment with Yi-Gan San for psychosis and sleep disturbance in a patient with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Successful treatment with Yi-Gan San for psychosis and sleep disturbance in a patient with dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "17664410", "title": "Brain spect perfusion of frontotemporal dementia associated with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Brain spect perfusion of frontotemporal dementia associated with motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "17656192", "title": "Cognitive disturbances in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Cognitive disturbances in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "17631544", "title": "Role of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease, with emphasis on brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Role of neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease, with emphasis on brain perfusion SPECT. Structural MRI and functional imaging by SPECT as well as 18F-FDG PET are widely used in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Metabolic and perfusion reductions in the parietotemporal association cortex are recognized as a diagnostic pattern for AD. Outstanding progress in the diagnostic accuracy of these modalities has been achieved with statistical analysis on a voxel-by-voxel basis after anatomic standardization of individual scans to a standardized brain volume template instead of visual inspection or a volume-of-interest technique. In a very early stage of AD, this statistical approach revealed losses of gray matter in the entorhinal and hippocampal areas and hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. This statistical approach also offers a prediction of the conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD. The presence of hypometabolism or hypoperfusion in parietal association areas and entorhinal atrophy at the MCI stage have been reported to predict a rapid conversion to AD. A recent advance in voxel-based statistical analysis has markedly enhanced the value of brain perfusion SPECT in diagnosing early AD at the stage of MCI."}
{"id": "17628601", "title": "Alexia without agraphia in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Alexia without agraphia in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Progressive dementia uncommonly presents with focal deficits referable to posterior cortical dysfunction. We describe a 62 year-old man who presented with progressive visual disturbance in whom detailed cognitive testing documented alexia without agraphia. The only finding from diagnostic investigations was hypoperfusion of the posterior left temporoparietal region on brain SPECT scan. He rapidly progressed and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) was confirmed at autopsy. Although reading disorders may develop in association with posterior cortical atrophy due to CJD, this is the first reported autopsy-confirmed case presenting as alexia without agraphia."}
{"id": "17622781", "title": "Evaluation of dopaminergic function in frontotemporal dementia using I-FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Evaluation of dopaminergic function in frontotemporal dementia using I-FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography. Extrapyramidal symptoms are observed in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). (123)I-FP-CIT (DaT scan) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can detect loss of presynaptic dopamine transporters in the striatum. We aimed to evaluate the dopaminergic status of the striatum in patients with FTD using DaT scan. Seven patients (age range 65-76 years), who fulfilled the Neary criteria and in whom the diagnosis of FTD was confirmed by hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime SPECT, were included in the study. The severity of the extrapyramidal symptoms was evaluated by the motor part of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). SPECT using (123)I-FP-CIT was done. A (region - occipital)/occipital ratio was calculated for the striatum, putamen and caudate nucleus. The results were compared with those of the 7 age-matched normal controls. The uptake of the radiotracer in the right and left striatum was reduced to 62% (p = 0.000) and 68% (p = 0.000), respectively, compared to controls. The motor UPDRS score of the patients with FTD showed a negative correlation to the uptake of the radiotracer. The presynaptic dopamine transporter in FTD is impaired, related to the severity of the extrapyramidal symptoms. Since an effective treatment for FTD is still to be established, there is a need for evaluating the efficacy of dopaminergic drugs."}
{"id": "17609907", "title": "Comparative study of the specificities of needling acupoints DU20, DU26 and HT7 in intervening vascular dementia in different areas in the brain on the basis of scale assessment and cerebral functional imaging.", "content": "Comparative study of the specificities of needling acupoints DU20, DU26 and HT7 in intervening vascular dementia in different areas in the brain on the basis of scale assessment and cerebral functional imaging. Using methods of clinical scale assessment and cerebral functional imaging to compare the relative specificity of needling acupoints Baihui (DU20), Shuigou (DU26) and Shenmen (HT7) in intervening vascular dementia (VD) in different areas in the brain. Fifty patients with VD were randomized into 5 groups. Needling on conventionally used acupoints of hand and foot three Yang-meridians aiming at hemiplegia was applied to the patients in Group A, and needling on DU20 to Group B, on DU26 to Group C, on HT7 to Group D and on all the three to Group E was applied additionally. Assessments of Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Activities of Daily Living (ADL) and Family Attitude Questionnaire (FAQ) were made. And the positron emission computerized tomography (PET) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) examinations were conducted in 5 selected patients from each group before and after treatment. Needling on conventional acupoints plus DU20 could effect the inner temporal system, thalamencephalon system and prefrontal cortical system to improve memory and executive capacity of VD patients; conventional acupoints plus DU26 could effect more to the prefrontal cortical system to obviously elevate the executive capacity; that plus HT7 would reveal an effect similar to but rather weaker than plus DU20, and effect more to memory; and that plus all the three simultaneously could effect rather roundly multiple aspects of the nervous system related to intellectual activities, to elevate the recognition and enhance the executive capacity. Needling on various acupoints like DU20, DU26 and HT7 have effects on different brain areas."}
{"id": "17585595", "title": "[Slowly progressive anarthria and disturbed voluntary respiration--a case report].", "content": "[Slowly progressive anarthria and disturbed voluntary respiration--a case report]. A 68 year-old right-handed male initially felt an abnormal sensation in the throat and slight difficulties in phonation and articulation. The difficulties slowly progressed. Dementia and kinetic disorder of limbs has not been observed over two years after onset. Although bilateral cortico-bulbar tract sign such as pathological laughter was noted. His articulatory movements were small and indistinct. Phonation was slightly explosive and breathy as if panting out. His clinical feature could be differentiated from primary progressive aphasia because he was not aphasic with excellent word finding, and fell into the realm of progressive anarthria. On SPECT, hypoperfusion was seen in the left frontal region, the left parieto-temporal region, and the right frontal region to a lesser extent. A peculiarity of the patient was in that he had accompanied a difficulty in voluntary inspiration such as taking a deep breath. Because fiberoptic examination of the larynx demonstrated that the vocal cords opened normally when he tried to take a deep breath, the difficulty in inspiration was best explained by loss of voluntary control over diaphragmatic contractions. On voluntary expiration, sustained blowing through the pursued lips (soft blowing) was not successful either. On the other hand, blowing out several candles one by one or blowing up a balloon (hard blowing) was successful. In soft blowing, a voluntary and meticulous control of the diaphragm is necessary to counteract the spontaneous recoil of the lungs. In hard blowing, expiratory muscles may contract forcefully without participation of the diaphragm. This discrepancy is again explained by loss of voluntary control over the diaphragmatic movements. This deficit could have affected phonation; maintaining an adequate vibration on the vocal cords for a certain period of time, it is necessary to control the subglotal pressure at an appropriate level by diaphragmatic control. We believe this is the first patient with a progressive anarthria in which defective voluntary respiration possibly caused impairment of phonation."}
{"id": "17585592", "title": "[Neuropathology of scizophrenia--from a new perspective].", "content": "[Neuropathology of scizophrenia--from a new perspective]. Over 100 years ago, Kreapelin had supposed that the etiology of schizophrenia (dementia praecox) was owing to the brain pathology. Afterwards, the pioneers including Dr. Alois Alzheimer had been pursued the peculiarity of neuropathological findings of this disease. But the neuropathology of schizophrenia remains obscure. While remarkable progress has been made in the neuropathological study of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, progress in studying the neuropathological entity of schizophrenia has not keep pace; the phrase \"schizophrenia is the graveyard of neuropathologists\" has been stated in the field. By means of CT or MRI and with advanced functional brain image technology such as PET or SPECT since the 1980's, many studies of the morphological or functional abnormalities in the brains of schizophrenia patients have been reported. These neuroimaging researches have stimulated the neuropathological investigation of the schizophrenic brain again. Not only the classical microscopic observation of neuropathology, but also the measurement and the statistical analysis using computer imaging software or using histological techniques including immunocytochemistry or in situ hybridization etc, has been performed. Based on the neuropathological studies of schizophrenia over the last 20 years, it is clear that schizophrenia is not a pure functional disease without organic factors. Reports of neuropathological abnormalities in the post mortem schizophrenic brain indicated they were found in stated almost all areas of the brain, and especially more reports concerning the temporal lobe and frontal lobe. These observed neuropathological abnormalities are explained rationally by the hypothesis of a neurodevelopmental disorder. In recent genetic studies, several putative candidate genes in this disease were reported, and some of these genes might have the role of neurodevelopment or making neuronal networks. It is important to consider together these findings with morphometric studies in neuropathological observation, neuroimaging studies and genome studies to pursue the etiology of schizophrenia from various perspectives."}
{"id": "17575429", "title": "[Neuroimaging in early diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in early diagnosis of dementia]."}
{"id": "17574750", "title": "Extrapyramidal symptoms in Frontotemporal Dementia: prevalence and clinical correlations.", "content": "Extrapyramidal symptoms in Frontotemporal Dementia: prevalence and clinical correlations. In the present study we aimed at evaluating the prevalence and the associated clinical, neuropsychological and behavioral features of extrapyramidal symptoms in Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) patients. Seventy-five patients fulfilling clinical criteria of FTD were consecutively enrolled. Each patient underwent clinical and extrapyramidal sign examination, and neuropsychological and behavioral disturbance evaluation. Each patient was submitted to both brain MRI and SPECT, documenting frontotemporal atrophy/hypoperfusion pattern. Parkinsonian symptoms in FTD were associated with a specific endophenotype characterized by higher incidence of psychotic symptoms, memory deficits and psychomotor speed ability abnormalities. Careful description of the spectrum of presentation of FTD may be of help for further understanding the underpinnings of the disease."}
{"id": "17568630", "title": "The interaction between semantic and the nonsemantic systems in reading: Evidence from Chinese.", "content": "The interaction between semantic and the nonsemantic systems in reading: Evidence from Chinese. We report a Chinese-speaking patient WJX with left temporal lobe ischemic damage resulting in dementia. Similar to English speaking patients with this pathology, WJX showed impaired semantic system functioning together with a well preserved ability to read aloud Chinese characters including characters with unpredictable mappings between orthography and phonology-so called irregular characters. The summation hypothesis [Hillis, A. E., & Caramazza, A. (1991). Mechanisms for accessing lexical representations for output-evidence from a category-specific semantic deficit. Brain and Language, 40, 106-144; Hillis, A. E., & Caramazza, A. (1995). Converging evidence for the interaction of semantic and sublexical phonological information in accessing lexical representations for spoken output. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 12, 187-227] proposes that the good reading performance can be explained by the integration of a semantic route of reading and a nonsemantic route. Most Chinese characters contain components that can give a clue to the pronunciation (phonetic radical) and the meaning (semantic radical) of the character. We compared his comprehension and oral reading performance by varying the consistency of phonetic radicals and the transparency of semantic radicals. We observed an interaction between WJX's character comprehension and the consistency of the phonetic radical on reading performance; however, the transparency of semantic radicals had no effect on performance. We argue that this case report provides converging evidence for the principles of the summation hypothesis for reading."}
{"id": "17562930", "title": "Accuracy of the clinical evaluation for frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Accuracy of the clinical evaluation for frontotemporal dementia. Without a definitive clinical test, the early diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) can be difficult. To evaluate the accuracy of the clinical evaluation for FTD. Retrospective assessment of consensus criteria for FTD, neuropsychological measures, magnetic resonance images, and single-photon emission computed tomography/positron emission tomography (SPECT/PET) scans at baseline compared with a standard of subsequent clinical diagnosis after follow-up and reevaluation to year 2. University hospital. A total of 134 patients referred for clinical evaluation of suspected FTD. These patients had 1 or more core or supportive features of FTD in the absence of another etiology on initial assessment. Sensitivities, specificities, and predictive values of consensus criteria for FTD, magnetic resonance images, and SPECT/PET scans at initial assessment. The sensitivities and specificities for the diagnosis of FTD were 36.5% and 100.0% for consensus criteria, 63.5% and 70.4% for magnetic resonance images, and 90.5% and 74.6% for SPECT/PET scans, respectively. With a previous prevalence of nearly 50% for FTD, the positive predictive value was greatest for consensus criteria (100.0%), and the negative predictive value was greatest for SPECT/PET (89.8%). The initial neuropsychological results did not distinguish FTD, but the pattern of progression (worse naming and executive functions and preserved constructional ability) helped establish the diagnosis at year 2. Consensus criteria for FTD and neuropsychological measures lacked sensitivity for FTD; however, neuroimaging, particularly functional brain studies, greatly increased the sensitivity of detecting FTD. The clinical diagnosis of FTD needs to combine neuropsychiatric features with SPECT or PET findings while following the changes on neuropsychological tests."}
{"id": "17558256", "title": "Impairment of decision-making cognition in a case of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) presenting with pathologic gambling and hoarding as the initial symptoms.", "content": "Impairment of decision-making cognition in a case of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) presenting with pathologic gambling and hoarding as the initial symptoms. The aim of this study was to use the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) to examine decision-making cognition in a patient with mild frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fv-FTD). Although fv-FTD may present with bizarre and dramatic behavioral changes, traditional executive tasks are sometimes preserved in patients with mild fv-FTD. Some evidence suggests that tasks assessing decision-making cognition, such as the IGT, may be sensitive to detect cognitive dysfunction in patients with mild fv-FTD. Here, we report a patient with fv-FTD who presented with bizarre behavior including hoarding, pathologic gambling, and abnormal sexual behavior. A 54-year-old man who had been diagnosed as having fv-FTD was examined using a behavioral assessment, a wide range of neuropsychologic tasks, and the IGT. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and brain 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography examinations were also performed. Although the patient's cognitive abilities were almost fully preserved for a number of traditional neuropsychologic tasks (memory, executive function), the IGT suggested that his decision-making cognition was impaired. The 99mTc-ethylcysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography examination revealed hypometabolism in bilateral medial frontal and orbitofrontal regions of the cerebral cortex, and also in the cingulate gyri. Our findings suggest that the IGT may be a sensitive tool for assessing patients with mild fv-FTD before the development of severe dementia. We speculate that the deficit in decision-making cognition observed in the present case was associated with hypometabolism in the neural networks of the frontal lobe and involving both the bilateral medial frontal and orbitofrontal regions of the cerebral cortex."}
{"id": "17556219", "title": "[Semantic dementia].", "content": "[Semantic dementia]. Semantic dementia (SD) is characterized by an assymetric atrophy of the temporal lobes and, clinically, by an impairment of the semantic memory associated to psychobehavioral symptoms. The concept of SD was defined in 1989 and still remains controversial. Some authors consider DS as a specific entity, others as part of the frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or a variant of the progressive aphasia syndrome. Many arguments tend to include SD in the FTD. However, SD presents a high interest for the comprehension of the organization of semantic memory in man, and is often associated with specific histopathologic lesions (ubiquitine positive and tau negative). Therefore SD should be considered as a clinical specific entity."}
{"id": "17544447", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia in Oman: cognitive behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics; a prospective hospital-based study.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia in Oman: cognitive behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics; a prospective hospital-based study. Frontotemporal dementia is increasingly recognised as an important cause of early-onset dementia and is considered to be the second commonest neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease. We describe the cognitive, behavioural profile and neuroimaging characteristics of 6 patients with frontal variant of Frontotemporal dementia that were evaluated at the cognitive behavioural clinic at this tertiary referral teaching hospital. All patients underwent clinical, neuropsychological, structural/functional neuroimaging, and laboratory evaluations. The male to female ratio was 1:1; mean age of onset was 54 years, and the mean duration of symptoms were 30 months. The mean scores for Addenbrooke's cognitive examination, Frontal Assessment Battery, and Mini-Mental State Examination were 70.5, 6.33 and 23.6 respectively. The mean VLOM ratio was 2.04. MRI revealed significant asymmetrical regional frontal/temporal atrophy supplemented by the evidence of circumscribed hypoperfusion in SPECT imaging. We conclude that a combination of behavioural and cognitive assessment using short bedside tests, along with structural and functional neuroimaging does facilitate early identification, and increase the diagnostic specificity of Frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "17542791", "title": "Diagnosing dementia in rural New South Wales.", "content": "Diagnosing dementia in rural New South Wales. Review of dementia screening case profiles that included brain blood flow imaging to determine contribution to diagnosis. Retrospective medical case audit. Rural New South Wales. Eighty-eight rural patients who underwent investigations for dementia diagnosis. Contribution of brain blood flow imaging (single photon emission tomography, SPECT) to the dementia screening regime. The age range of those referred was 21-88 years, the average being 70 years. There were 44 men and 44 women. Vascular causes of dementia accounted for 27% of all those referred for brain blood imaging. Senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type accounted for 40% of all referrals. The occurrence of mixed disease was 6%. Matching neuropsychological reports and computer tomography were available for 18 of the blood flow studies. Of these, 65% were in agreement or semi-agreement for the diagnostic outcome. Only five studies failed to reach consensus. GPs were responsible for 31% of the imaging referrals, and the remaining referrals were from the regions: two gerontologists, three physicians and two neurologists. Brain blood flow imaging did contribute to the final diagnosis of dementia type for these patients, influencing patient management."}
{"id": "17538391", "title": "Imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review.", "content": "Imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review. This review discusses the role of functional and structural imaging in patients with suspected dementia with Lewy bodies, with particular emphasis on SPECT and PET dopaminergic and cerebral perfusion/metabolic techniques. It is envisaged that this information may be useful to nuclear medicine physicians, radiologists, psychiatrists, neurologists, geriatricians and physicians."}
{"id": "17534953", "title": "Basal ganglia cholinergic and dopaminergic function in progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Basal ganglia cholinergic and dopaminergic function in progressive supranuclear palsy. Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. In contrast to Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), replacement therapy with dopaminergic and cholinergic agents in PSP has been disappointing. The neurochemical basis for this is unclear. Our objective was to measure dopaminergic and cholinergic receptors in the basal ganglia of PSP and control brains. We measured, autoradiographically, dopaminergic (dopamine transporter, 125I PE2I and dopamine D2 receptors, 125I epidepride) and cholinergic (nicotinic alpha4beta2 receptors, 125I 5IA85380 and muscarinic M1 receptors, 3H pirenzepine) parameters in the striatum and pallidum of pathologically confirmed PSP cases (n=15) and controls (n=32). In PSP, there was a marked loss of dopamine transporter and nicotinic alpha4beta2 binding in the striatum and pallidum, consistent with loss of nigrostriatal neurones. Striatal D2 receptors were increased in the caudate and muscarinic M1 receptors were unchanged compared with controls. These results do not account for the poor response to dopaminergic and cholinergic replacement therapies in PSP, and suggest relative preservation of postsynaptic striatal projection neurones bearing D2/M1 receptors."}
{"id": "17507882", "title": "Prediction of deterioration of mild cognitive impairment with CT and SPECT.", "content": "Prediction of deterioration of mild cognitive impairment with CT and SPECT. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a condition referring to persons with significant memory impairment, often accompanied by functional deficits in the attention, language, visuospatial, and psychomotor domains, who do not fulfill the criteria for dementia. Individuals with MCI are at an increased risk of developing dementia. The objective of this study was to examine baseline differences between MCI subjects who did or did not deteriorate at follow-up on measures of cognition and neuroimaging. MCI individuals (n=105) enrolled in a longitudinal study at the Alzheimer's Day Clinic in Warsaw received annual clinical and psychometric examinations for up to a mean of three years. At baseline, all patients received temporal lobe-oriented CT and 99mTc HMPAO SPECT. The diagnosis of MCI according to Mayo Clinic Petersen's Criteria was conducted by a panel of specialists and neuropsychological testing was completed on all subjects. After three years of follow-up, 42 subjects remained stable or had improved (8) and 63 had progressive cognitive disturbances, including 23 who converted to dementia. Compared with stable MCI patients, decliners have significantly higher radial width of the temporal horn bilaterally and width of the lateral part of the transverse fissure on the right, dilated third ventricle, and smaller oblique thickness of the anterior part of the hippocampal formation bilaterally at the baseline. No significant differences in SPECT perfusion were found between the two groups. The proposed linear measurements of atrophy in CT may constitute a predictor for those MCI patients who are more likely to deteriorate."}
{"id": "17493637", "title": "Evaluation of brain perfusion SPECT using an easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS) as an adjunct to early-diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Evaluation of brain perfusion SPECT using an easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS) as an adjunct to early-diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases. The eZIS allows computer-assisted statistical analysis of brain perfusion SPECT images. We evaluated the diagnostic value of brain perfusion SPECT using eZIS in patients with various neurodegenerative diseases at a very early stage, within one year from onset. SPECT using eZIS was performed for patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), frontotemporal dementia (FTD,), idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD) and vascular Parkinsonism (VP), multiple systemic atrophy of the cerebellar type (MSA-C), cortical cerebellar atrophy (CCA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Decreased rCBF was observed in the posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus and parietal cortex in AD; in the frontal gyrus and insula in FTD; in the occipital lobe, precuneus gyrus and posterior cingulate cortex in DLB; in the striatum and the thalamus in VP; in the cerebellum in CCA; in the cerebellum and pons in MSA-C and in the frontal cortex including the central sulcus in ALS. Increased rCBF in the striatum, thalamus and cerebellar dentate nuclei were observed in PD. A specific rCBF pattern was observed for each disease using eZIS analysis, consistent with previous reports. Our results showed eZIS can be easily used as an adjunct to early-diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases in any hospital."}
{"id": "17486648", "title": "Role of DAT-SPECT in the diagnostic work up of parkinsonism.", "content": "Role of DAT-SPECT in the diagnostic work up of parkinsonism. The diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) can be achieved with high degrees of accuracy in cases with full expression of classical clinical features. However, diagnostic uncertainty remains in early disease with subtle or ambiguous signs. Functional imaging has been suggested to increase the diagnostic yield in parkinsonian syndromes with uncertain clinical classification. Loss of striatal dopamine nerve terminal function, a hallmark of neurodegenerative parkinsonism, is strongly related to decreases of dopamine transporter (DAT) density, which can be measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The use of DAT-SPECT facilitates the differential diagnosis in patients with isolated tremor symptoms not fulfilling PD or essential tremor criteria, drug-induced, psychogenic and vascular parkinsonism as well as dementia when associated with parkinsonism. This review addresses the value of DAT-SPECT in early differential diagnosis, and its potential as a screening tool for subjects at risk of developing PD as well as issues around the assessment of disease progression."}
{"id": "17479522", "title": "PET and SPECT imaging in psychiatric disorders.", "content": "PET and SPECT imaging in psychiatric disorders. To review recent findings from positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies that investigate the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia, depression, and dementia. We carried out a review of the literature. PET and SPECT studies have provided evidence of dopamine system dysregulation in patients with schizophrenia and variable loss of monoamines in patients with depression. Antipsychotic response has been demonstrated to be associated with blockade of dopamine D2 receptors, and antidepressant response has now been linked to blockade of serotonin transporter receptors. PET and SPECT have been extensively evaluated as diagnostic procedures for dementia. Substantial progress has been made in developing radioligands that bind to amyloid deposits in the brain, which should provide new opportunities for early diagnosis and treatment monitoring in Alzheimer's disease. Advances in PET and SPECT imaging have provided new insights into the biology of major psychiatric disorders and their treatment. In the future, we can expect that these imaging techniques will become more central to the management of psychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "17477302", "title": "Diagnostics and therapy of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Diagnostics and therapy of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is described as a degenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized by a noticeable cognitive decline defined by a loss of memory and learning ability, together with a reduced ability to perform basic activities of daily living. In the brain of an AD patients is the dramatic decrease in cholinergic innervation in the cortex and hippocampus due to the loss of neurons in the basal forebrain. The above findings led to the development of the cholinergic hypothesis, which proposes that the cognitive loss associated with AD is related to decreased cortical cholinergic neurotransmission. In brain of Alzheimer's patient's one ascertained presence of neuritic plaques containing the beta-amyloid peptide and protein tau. Biochemical and genetics studies implicated a central role for beta-amyloid in the pathological cascade of events in AD. The most therapeutic strategies in AD have been directed to two main targets: the beta-amyloid peptide and the cholinergic neurotransmission. The first approach is to act on the amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing. The second main approach is to slow of decline of neuronal degeneration or increasing cholinergic transmission. Diagnosis of AD is very difficult and to date no specific diagnostic tests of the disease are available. Intellectual function testing to determine the degree of cognitive status during routine medical examination is a useful supplementary method of diagnosing dementia. The permissible result, come down from radiopharmacy, which is an integral part of a nuclear medicine. A radiopharmaceutical may be defined as a pharmaceutical substance containing radioactive atoms. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are capable of mapping the distribution of radionuclides in three dimensions, producing maps of brain biochemical and physiological processes. The techniques are reasonably sensitive and specific in differentiating AD from other dementias."}
{"id": "17469688", "title": "Imaging biomarkers and their role in dementia clinical trials.", "content": "Imaging biomarkers and their role in dementia clinical trials. There are five potential major roles for neuroimaging with respect to dementia; (1) as a cognitive neuroscience research tool, (2) for prediction of which normal or slightly impaired individuals will develop dementia and over what time frame, (3) for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in demented individuals, (sensitivity) and separation of AD from other forms of dementia (specificity), (4) for monitoring of disease progression, and (5) for monitoring response to therapies. Focusing on the last role, no single imaging approach is yet ideal, as all trade-off speed, cost, and accuracy. Functional imaging (SPECT and PET) is best suited to tracking symptomatic therapy response, and anatomic (MRI volumetric) imaging or amyloid PET are more suited to reflect dementia modulation studies. The potential for imaging with respect to pharmacological studies of dementia--to provide surrogate markers for drug studies, to improve diagnosis, to speed evaluation of outcomes, and to decrease sample sizes--is huge. At the present time, however, no single measure has sufficient proven reliability, replicability, or robustness, to replace clinical primary outcome measures."}
{"id": "17460535", "title": "Limitations of the HMPAO SPECT appearances of occipital lobe perfusion in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Limitations of the HMPAO SPECT appearances of occipital lobe perfusion in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. To assess the utility of the appearances of occipital lobe perfusion on HMPAO SPECT in the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) using the 123I-FP-CIT findings as the diagnostic 'gold standard'. Eighty-four consecutive patients underwent both HMPAO SPECT and 123I-FP-CIT as part of their routine investigations for suspected DLB. Thirty-nine of the 84 FP-CIT scans were abnormal indicating a prevalence of 44% of patients with DLB in this series. In those patients classified as DLB, 28% of HMPAO SPECT scans demonstrated occipital hypoperfusion. In those patients with a dementia other than DLB 31% of patients demonstrated occipital hypoperfusion (P=0.8). Occipital lobe hypoperfusion as demonstrated by HMPAO SPECT in patients with suspected Lewy body dementia does not appear to be able to either rule in, or rule out, the diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "17446028", "title": "Imaging treatment effects in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging treatment effects in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest form of degenerative dementia and is characterised by progressive cognitive decline. Despite extensive research, the cause of AD is unknown and there is no cure at present. Of the deficits found in AD, that affecting the cholinergic neurotransmitter system is the best established and the only one translated into symptomatic treatment. Cholinergic enhancement with cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) drugs has been achieved and their efficacy and safety ascertained by conventional clinical trials. The mechanism of action of these drugs, however, is not well understood. Imaging with SPECT, PET, MRI and fMRI after treatment has clarified what happens in the brains of those AD patients treated with ChEI drugs. Studies with these techniques have identified increases in brain blood flow and glucose metabolism, restoration of nicotinic receptor function and re-establishment of task-related regional brain activation in response to cognitive stimulation after treatment. Structural MRI studies have explained, to some degree, why only a proportion of patients benefits from ChEI treatment and there is some evidence that some ChEI drugs might be neuroprotective. There are, however, many unsolved problems. Timing of treatment intervention to obtain maximum response and the determinants of treatment response are mostly unknown. It is also unclear whether administration of treatment in those patients who have no potential for response accelerates disease progression. These issues cannot be solved by conventional clinical trials. Pharmacoimaging studies could assist the development and refinement of drugs to treat those diseases, such as AD, which affect the central nervous system."}
{"id": "17445833", "title": "Clinical diagnosis of vascular dementia.", "content": "Clinical diagnosis of vascular dementia. Vascular dementia (VaD) is a heterogeneous clinical entity based on various vascular pathophysiological processes underlying the subtypes of cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Several diagnostic criteria are currently being used for the clinical diagnosis of VaD, but they are mostly more than 10 years old and need to be renovated including the use of functional brain imaging methods such as single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). There is a limitation in the diagnosis based on the strict dichotomy between AD and VaD, and the concept of \"AD with CVD\" or \"mixed dementia\" should be included in the clinical diagnosis of VaD."}
{"id": "17370649", "title": "[Molecular imaging of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain].", "content": "[Molecular imaging of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by dementia, cognitive impairment, and memory loss. Postmortem brains of AD patients reveal neuropathological features; the presence of beta-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, which contain beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta) and highly phosphorylated tau proteins. Increases in the concentration of Abeta in the course of the disease lead to gradual increase in the load of beta-amyloid plaques, which is thought to be an initial neuropathological change in AD brains. Thus, the development of radiotracers for in vivo imaging beta-amyloid plaques in the aging human brain is an important and active area of molecular imaging. When used in combination with positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), amyloid imaging agents could serve as surrogate markers in early diagnosis and neuropathogenesis studies of AD. Furthermore, quantitative evaluation of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain could allow facilitate the evaluation of the efficacy of anti-amyloid therapies that are currently being investigated. A number of groups have worked to develop radiolabeled amyloid imaging agents, and clinical trials in AD patients have been reported with several agents including [18F]FDDNP, [11C]PIB, [11C]SB-13 and [123I]IMPY, indicating that detecting beta-amyloid plaques in the living human brain with amyloid imaging agents is potentially feasible. More recently, we have reported additional promising compounds such as flavone or chalcone derivatives. The combination of relatively high binding affinity to Abeta and high brain uptake and good clearance in mice of these flavonoid derivatives provides a series of potential amyloid imaging agents for PET and SPECT. In this manuscript, recent progress in amyloid imaging studies is reviewed with the development of amyloid imaging agents."}
{"id": "17367812", "title": "Quantification of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in Parkinson's disease with (123)I-5IA SPECT.", "content": "Quantification of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in Parkinson's disease with (123)I-5IA SPECT. We quantified in vivo brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) distributions in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and evaluated correlations between nAChR distributions and clinical variables of the patients, especially dopaminergic medications. Ten patients with PD without dementia underwent 5-(123)I-iodo-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine ((123)I-5IA) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and the data were compared with those of 10 age-matched healthy volunteers. Correlation analyses between (123)I-5IA distribution volumes (DVs) in each brain region and clinical variables of the patients were also performed. The PD group showed a statistically significant decrease (20-25%) in the brainstem and frontal cortex as compared with the control group. Although age, duration of disease, daily dose of levodopa, duration of PD medication use, and scores on the motor section of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale were not significantly correlated with DV values in any brain regions, high daily doses of dopamine agonist showed a significant negative correlation with DVs in the cerebellum, and temporal, parietal and occipital cortices. These findings suggest that patients with PD without dementia can show reductions especially in the brainstem and frontal cortex. They also suggest that dopamine agonists can have a negative influence on the distribution of nAChRs."}
{"id": "17362834", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of dopamine transporter imaging with 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies: a phase III, multicentre study.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of dopamine transporter imaging with 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies: a phase III, multicentre study. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) needs to be distinguished from other types of dementia because of important differences in patient management and outcome. Current clinically based diagnostic criteria for DLB have limited accuracy. Severe nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration occurs in DLB, but not in Alzheimer's disease or most other dementia subtypes, offering a potential system for a biological diagnostic marker. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the sensitivity and specificity, in the ante-mortem differentiation of probable DLB from other causes of dementia, of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging with the ligand (123)I-2beta-carbometoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane ((123)I-FP-CIT), which binds to the dopamine transporter (DAT) reuptake site. Diagnostic accuracy, positive and negative predictive values, and inter-reader agreement were the secondary endpoints and a subgroup of possible DLB patients was also included. We did a phase III study in which we used a (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT scan to assess 326 patients with clinical diagnoses of probable (n=94) or possible (n=57) DLB or non-DLB dementia (n=147) established by a consensus panel (in 28 patients no diagnosis could be made). Three readers, unaware of the clinical diagnosis, classified the images as normal or abnormal by visual inspection. The study had 90% power to detect the differences between our anticipated sensitivity (0.80) and specificity (0.85) targets and prespecified lower thresholds (sensitivity 0.65, specificity 0.73) using one-sided binomial tests with a significance level of alpha=0.025. Abnormal scans had a mean sensitivity of 77.7% for detecting clinical probable DLB, with specificity of 90.4% for excluding non-DLB dementia, which was predominantly due to Alzheimer's disease. A mean value of 85.7% was achieved for overall diagnostic accuracy, 82.4% for positive predictive value, and 87.5% for negative predictive value. Inter-reader agreement for rating scans as normal or abnormal was high (Cohen's kappa=0.87). The procedure was well tolerated with few adverse events. A revision of the International Consensus Criteria for DLB has recommended that low DAT uptake in the basal ganglia, as shown by SPECT or PET imaging, be a suggestive feature for diagnosis. Our findings confirm the high correlation between abnormal (low binding) DAT activity measured with (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT and a clinical diagnosis of probable DLB. The diagnostic accuracy is sufficiently high for this technique to be clinically useful in distinguishing DLB from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "17362826", "title": "An advance in molecular imaging of dementias.", "content": "An advance in molecular imaging of dementias."}
{"id": "17362445", "title": "Using striatal dopamine transporter single photon emission computed tomography imaging to rule out Dementia with Lewy Bodies in elderly patients with antipsychotic-induced parkinsonism.", "content": "Using striatal dopamine transporter single photon emission computed tomography imaging to rule out Dementia with Lewy Bodies in elderly patients with antipsychotic-induced parkinsonism."}
{"id": "17353866", "title": "Neuropsychiatric aspects of hypothyroidism and treatment reversibility. .", "content": "Neuropsychiatric aspects of hypothyroidism and treatment reversibility. . Thyroid hormone has important actions in the adult brain, and it is well accepted that hypothyroidism is associated with neuropsychiatric complaints and symptoms. Neuropsychiatric symptoms refer to a spectrum of emotional and cognitive problems that are directly related to changes in the brain secondary to multiple factors, including the direct effects of thyroid disease, as well as hormone deprivation in brain tissue. Hypothyroidism impacts aspects of cognitive functioning and mood. More severe hypothyroidism can mimic melancholic de-pression and dementia. Neuropsychiatric symptoms tend to improve with treatment and normalization to a euthyroid state, though the pattern is inconsistent and complete recovery is uncertain. The degree to which mild hypothyroidism, or subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH), impacts mood and cognitive functions and whether these symptoms respond to treatment, remains controversial. Most studies support a relationship between thyroid state and cognition, particularly slowed information processing speed, reduced efficiency in executive functions, and poor learning. Furthermore, hypo-thyroidism is associated with an increased susceptibility to depression and reductions in health-related quality of life. Controlled studies suggest that cognitive and mood symptoms improve with treatment, though the data are equivocal and limited by diverse methodologies. Functional neuroimaging data provide support for the mood and cognitive findings and treatment reversibility for both overt and SCH. These findings are not, however, without controversy. Recent investigations into the impact of SCH on cognition and mood, coupled epidemiological studies investigating the normal spectrum of thyroid stimulating hormone, have fueled significant debate regarding the appropriate, healthy range for TSH levels. This has led to concern over whether patients with overt hypothyroidism may be undertreated and whether SCH patients are truly out of the range of normal thyroid functioning and should be treated. The following is a review of the extant literature on the impact of hypothyroidism on cognition and mood, reversibility of symptoms, and treatment approaches. The spectrum of thyroid disease is reviewed, but mild, or subclinical, hypothyroidism is emphasized. The potential role of autoimmunity in neuropsychiatric symptoms and treatment resistance is addressed. Limitations of the current literature and future directions are discussed."}
{"id": "17353255", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: a comparison of clinical diagnosis, FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography imaging and autopsy.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: a comparison of clinical diagnosis, FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography imaging and autopsy. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a common form of dementia. The presence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology modifies the clinical features of DLB, making it harder to distinguish DLB from AD clinically during life. Clinical diagnostic criteria for DLB applied at presentation can fail to identify up to 50% of cases. Our aim was to determine, in a series of patients with dementia in whom autopsy confirmation of diagnosis was available, whether functional imaging of the nigrostriatal pathway improves the accuracy of diagnosis compared with diagnosis by means of clinical criteria alone. A single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan was carried out with a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand [123I]-2beta-carbometoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (FP-CIT; ioflupane) on a group of patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB or other dementia. An abnormal scan was defined as one in which right and left posterior putamen binding, measured semiquantitatively, was more than 2 SDs below the mean of the controls. Over a 10 year period it was possible to collect 20 patients who had been followed from the time of first assessment and time of scan through to death and subsequent detailed neuropathological autopsy. Eight patients fulfilled neuropathological diagnostic criteria for DLB. Nine patients had AD, mostly with coexisting cerebrovascular disease. Three patients had other diagnoses. The sensitivity of an initial clinical diagnosis of DLB was 75% and specificity was 42%. The sensitivity of the FP-CIT scan for the diagnosis of DLB was 88% and specificity was 100%. FP-CIT SPECT scans substantially enhanced the accuracy of diagnosis of DLB by comparison with clinical criteria alone."}
{"id": "17349943", "title": "The utility of PET brain imaging in the initial evaluation of dementia.", "content": "The utility of PET brain imaging in the initial evaluation of dementia. Given the challenges and benefits of timely and accurate diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders and the importance of appropriate subsequent treatments, physicians and patients alike desire tools that aid in diagnosing dementia as early and as precisely as possible. One of these tools may be functional brain imaging, specifically positron emission tomography (PET). Recent technological advancements, ongoing research studies, and approval for reimbursement by various insurance companies and Medicare, under certain circumstances, have led to an increased interest in the use of this tool in the evaluation of dementia. This article will review PET brain imaging in the initial assessment and diagnosis of dementia, including its place in current guidelines and role in diagnostic algorithms, its applicability in differentiating among various dementia syndromes and major psychiatric disorders, and some of the controversies surrounding its utility in general clinical practice."}
{"id": "17318670", "title": "Imaging of cholinergic and monoaminergic neurochemical changes in neurodegenerative disorders.", "content": "Imaging of cholinergic and monoaminergic neurochemical changes in neurodegenerative disorders. Positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) imaging provides the means to study neurochemical processes in vivo. These methods have been applied to examine monoaminergic and cholinergic changes in neurodegenerative disorders. These investigations have provided important insights into disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The most intensely studied monoaminergic transmitter is dopamine. The extent of presynaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation can be quantified in PD and may serve as a diagnostic biomarker. Dopaminergic receptor imaging may help to distinguish idiopathic PD from atypical parkinsonian disorders. Cholinergic denervation has been identified not only in AD but also in PD and more severely in parkinsonian dementia. PET or SPECT can also provide biomarkers to follow progression of disease or evaluate the effects of therapeutic interventions. Cholinergic receptor imaging is expected to play a major role in new drug development for dementing disorders."}
{"id": "17308228", "title": "Apathy in dementia: an examination of the psychometric properties of the apathy evaluation scale.", "content": "Apathy in dementia: an examination of the psychometric properties of the apathy evaluation scale. The psychometric properties of the clinician, informant, and self-rated versions of the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES-C/I/S) were examined using data on 121 outpatients seen in a behavioral neurology clinic for the assessment of dementia and associated neuropsychiatric disorders. Two factors, apathy and interest, were identified for the AES-C and the AES-I. The AES-S had only an apathy factor. The AES-C was found to have fairly good psychometric properties. However, from a diagnostic point of view, the AES-I provided the greatest sensitivity and the strongest positive and negative predictive values. Generally, the AES-S performed poorly compared with the AES-C and AES-I."}
{"id": "17299017", "title": "Cholinesterase inhibitor use does not significantly influence the ability of 123I-FP-CIT imaging to distinguish Alzheimer's disease from dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Cholinesterase inhibitor use does not significantly influence the ability of 123I-FP-CIT imaging to distinguish Alzheimer's disease from dementia with Lewy bodies. 123I-labelled 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (123I-FP-CIT) imaging is a diagnostic tool to help differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in animals, cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEi) have been reported to reduce radioligand binding to the striatal dopamine transporter. As ChEi are frequently used in people with dementia, it is important to determine whether their use affects 123I-FP-CIT uptake in the striatum. To clarify whether chronic ChEi therapy modulates striatal dopamine transporter binding measured by 123I-FP-CIT in patients with AD, DLB and Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD). Cross sectional study in 99 patients with AD (nine on ChEi, 25 not on ChEi), DLB (nine on ChEi, 19 not on ChEi) and PDD (six on ChEi, 31 not on ChEi) comparing 123I-FP-CIT striatal binding (caudate, anterior and posterior putamen) in patients receiving compared with those not receiving ChEi, correcting for key clinical variables including diagnosis, age, sex, Mini-Mental State Examination score, severity of parkinsonism and concurrent antidepressant use. As previously described, 123I-FP-CIT striatal uptake was lower in DLB and PDD subjects compared with those with AD. Median duration of ChEi use was 180 days. 123I-FP-CIT uptake was not significantly reduced in subjects receiving ChEi compared those not receiving ChEi (mean percentage reduction: AD 4.3%; DLB 0.7%; PDD 6.1%; p = 0.40). ChEi use did not differentially affect striatal 123FP-CIT uptake between patient groups (p = 0.83). Use of ChEi does not significantly influence the ability of 123I-FP-CIT imaging to distinguish AD from DLB."}
{"id": "17296554", "title": "Sept4, a component of presynaptic scaffold and Lewy bodies, is required for the suppression of alpha-synuclein neurotoxicity.", "content": "Sept4, a component of presynaptic scaffold and Lewy bodies, is required for the suppression of alpha-synuclein neurotoxicity. In Parkinson disease (PD), alpha-synuclein aggregates called Lewy bodies often involve and sequester Septin4 (Sept4), a polymerizing scaffold protein. However, the pathophysiological significance of this phenomenon is unclear. Here, we show the physiological association of Sept4 with alpha-synuclein, the dopamine transporter, and other presynaptic proteins in dopaminergic neurons; mice lacking Sept4 exhibit diminished dopaminergic neurotransmission due to scarcity of these presynaptic proteins. These data demonstrate an important role for septin scaffolds in the brain. In transgenic mice that express human alpha-synuclein(A53T) (a mutant protein responsible for familial PD), loss of Sept4 significantly enhances neuropathology and locomotor deterioration. In this PD model, insoluble deposits of Ser129-phosphorylated alpha-synuclein(A53T) are negatively correlated with the dosage of Sept4. In vitro, direct association with Sept4 protects alpha-synuclein against self-aggregation and Ser129 phosphorylation. Taken together, these data show that Sept4 may be involved in PD as a dual susceptibility factor, as its insufficiency can diminish dopaminergic neurotransmission and enhance alpha-synuclein neurotoxicity."}
{"id": "17251522", "title": "Phenotypic variation in a large Swedish pedigree due to SNCA duplication and triplication.", "content": "Phenotypic variation in a large Swedish pedigree due to SNCA duplication and triplication. The \"Lister family complex,\" an extensive Swedish family with autosomal dominant Parkinson disease, was first described by Henry Mj\u00f6nes in 1949. On the basis of clinical, molecular, and genealogic findings on a Swedish and an American family branch, we provide genetic evidence that explains the parkinsonism in this extended pedigree. Clinical methods included a detailed neurologic exam of the proband of the Swedish family branch, MRI, and ([123]I)-beta-CIT SPECT imaging. Genomic analysis included alpha-synuclein sequencing, SNCA real-time PCR dosage, chromosome 4q21 microsatellite analysis, and high-resolution microarray genotyping. The geographic origin and ancestral genealogy of each pedigree were researched in the medical literature and Swedish Parish records. The proband of the Swedish family branch presented with early dysautonomia followed by progressive parkinsonism suggestive of multiple system atrophy. Molecular analysis identified a genomic duplication of <0.9 Mb encompassing alpha-synuclein and multimerin 1 (SNCA-MMRN1), flanked by long interspersed repeat sequences (LINE L1). Microsatellite variability within the genomic interval was identical to that previously described for a Swedish American family with an alpha-synuclein triplication. Subsequent genealogic investigation suggested that both kindreds are ancestrally related to the Lister family complex. Our findings extend clinical, genetic, and genealogical research on the Lister family complex. The genetic basis for familial parkinsonism is an SNCA-MMRN11 multiplication, but whereas SNCA-MMRN1 duplication in the Swedish proband (Branch J) leads to late-onset autonomic dysfunction and parkinsonism, SNCA-MMRN1 triplication in the Swedish American family (Branch I) leads to early-onset Parkinson disease and dementia."}
{"id": "17239043", "title": "Reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the Frontal Assessment Battery in patients with the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the Frontal Assessment Battery in patients with the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia. Patients with the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fv-FTD) exhibit deficits of executive functions. However, no single executive function task that might be used to detect the executive function deficits in fv-FTD patients has been established as yet. The frontal assessment battery (FAB) devised by Dubois et al. (2000) has been reported to be a quick and simple bedside screening test that is sensitive for differentiating between FTD and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study was conducted with the aim of ascertaining the reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the FAB among Japanese patients with fv-FTD. The Japanese version of FAB was given to patients with mild fv-FTD (n = 18) and those with AD (n = 18). The test-retest reliability was evaluated after a 3-week interval by the same interviewer. Data from the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (Keio version: KWCST) were also collected to ascertain the validity of the FAB. The Japanese version of the FAB exhibited good internal reliability (Cronbach's alpha: 0.70, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.50-0.84) and good test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient: 0.89, 95%CI = 0.77-0.95). Significant correlations were observed between the total FAB score and the category achieved (r = 0.454, P < 0.05) and number of perseveration errors (number of errors that were perseverations; r = 0.719, P < 0.01) in the KWCST. A cut-off of 10 for the total FAB score yielded the highest sensitivity (85%) and specificity (92%) for discriminating between patients with fv-FTD and AD with the highest positive likelihood (12.0, 95%CI = 2.6-55.4). The Japanese version of the FAB offers promise as an easy and quick bedside screening test to distinguish fv-FTD from AD."}
{"id": "17226740", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies. Synucleinopathies, with and without dementia, encompass a wide range of diseases including Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder, and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). DLB is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting in slowly progressive and unrelenting dementia until death. Prevalence studies suggest that it is the second most common dementing illness in the elderly. The neuropathologic findings of DLB show a wide anatomic range. Lewy bodies and Lewy-related pathology are found from the brain stem to the cortex and, in many cases, associated with concurrent Alzheimer's disease pathology. A recent international consortium on DLB has resulted in revised criteria for the clinical and pathological diagnosis of DLB incorporating new information about the core clinical features and improved methods for their assessment. The presentation of DLB is typically one of cortical and subcortical cognitive impairments, with worse visuospatial and executive dysfunction than Alzheimer's disease. There may be relative sparing of memory especially in the early stages. Core clinical features of DLB include fluctuating attention, recurrent visual hallucinations, and parkinsonism. Suggestive features include REM sleep behavior disorder, severe neuroleptic sensitivity, and low dopamine transporter uptake in the basal ganglia on functional neuroimaging. Additional supportive features that commonly occur in DLB, but with lower specificity, include repeated falls and syncope, transient, unexplained loss of consciousness, severe autonomic dysfunction, hallucinations in other modalities, systematized delusions, depression, relative preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on structural neuroimaging, reduced occipital activity on functional neuroimaging, prominent slow wave activity on electroencephalogram, and low uptake myocardial scintigraphy. Management of DLB includes pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions for its cognitive, neuropsychiatric, motor, and sleep disturbances."}
{"id": "17221818", "title": "[Clinical criteria of Parkinson's disease].", "content": "[Clinical criteria of Parkinson's disease]. The clinical criteria of Parkinson's disease are akinesia in combination with at least one of the following three symptoms: tremor (asymmetrical resting tremor), rigidity, impairment of posture, gait and balance. Symptomatic and atypical parkinsonian syndromes are ruled out by history, clinical examination, cranial CT, MRI, SPECT or PET. Patients with Parkinson's disease respond to levodopa or dopaminagonists throughout the course of the disease. Parkinson's disease is also characterised by various vegetative symptoms, impairment of olfaction, anxiety, depression, and with increasing age also by cognitive deficits and dementia."}
{"id": "17220817", "title": "99mTc-HMPAO and 99mTc-ECD brain uptake correlates of verbal memory in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "99mTc-HMPAO and 99mTc-ECD brain uptake correlates of verbal memory in Alzheimer's disease. Technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) and technetium-99m N,N-1,2-ethylene diylbis-Lcysteine diethyl ester dihydrochloride ((99m)Tc-ECD) SPECT are widely used in Dementia Clinics for early and differential diagnosis. They have been shown to perform differently in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the impact of such differences on both research and clinical work is unknown. We investigated the differences between the 2 compounds in research work by assessing correlation between performance on a verbal memory task and cerebral perfusion in 2 matched groups of AD patients. Nineteen pairs of patients with mild to moderate AD undergoing SPECT with either 99mTc-HMPAO or (99m)Tc-ECD were retrospectively selected in a Memory Clinic. Patients were matched for sex, age (+/-3 years) and the Mini-Mental State Examination score (+/-2 points) with a case-control procedure, thus obtaining 2 well-matched groups. The score on the Grober-Buschke selective reminding test (SRT) was correlated with SPECT in each group by means of statistical parametric mapping 99 (height threshold: P<0.01). (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT yielded 3 significant correlation clusters involving inferior and middle frontal gyri, para-hippocampal gyrus and putamen in the right hemisphere; the middle and superior temporal gyri, insula and claustrum in the left hemisphere. (99m)Tc-ECD gave a significant cluster of correlation in left postcentral gyrus and inferior parietal lobule. (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT correlation sites seem more consistent than (99m)Tc-ECD ones with the neurophysiological models of verbal memory, as designed both in normal individuals and in pathological conditions. The demonstration of such relevant differences introduces a source of variability among studies performed with either of the 2 compounds, which must be considered when interpreting results."}
{"id": "17216644", "title": "Treatable fluctuating Parkinsonism and dementia in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Treatable fluctuating Parkinsonism and dementia in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula."}
{"id": "17158559", "title": "Accuracy of single-photon emission computed tomography in differentiating frontotemporal dementia from Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Accuracy of single-photon emission computed tomography in differentiating frontotemporal dementia from Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are the commonest causes of presenile dementia. In the absence of a biological marker, diagnosis is reliant on clinical evaluation. Confirmation is often sought from neuroimaging, including single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Most previous SPECT studies lack pathological validation. To examine the accuracy of SPECT in differentiating FTD from AD in patients with subsequent pathological confirmation. Technetium-99-labelled hexamethyl propylene amine oxime SPECT images obtained at initial evaluation in 25 pathologically confirmed cases of FTD were examined. These images were visually rated by an experienced blinded nuclear medicine consultant and compared with those of 31 patients with AD, also with pathological validation. A reduction in frontal cerebral blood flow (CBF) was more common in FTD and was of diagnostic value (sensitivity 0.8, specificity 0.65 and likelihood ratio (LR) 2.25; 95% CI 1.35 to 3.77). A pattern of bilateral frontal CBF reduction without the presence of associated bilateral parietal CBF change is diagnostically more accurate (sensitivity 0.80, specificity 0.81 and +LR 4.13, 95% CI 1.96 to 8.71). Diagnostic categorisation (FTD or AD) on the basis of SPECT alone was less accurate than clinical diagnosis (based on neurology and detailed neuropsychological evaluation). One patient with FTD was initially clinically misdiagnosed as AD, owing to the lack of availability of full neuropsychological assessment. However, SPECT correctly diagnosed this patient, providing a diagnostic gain of 4%. Technetium-99-labelled hexamethyl propylene amine oxime SPECT CBF patterns provide valuable information in the diagnosis of FTD and AD. These data can be better used as an adjunct to clinical diagnosis if pathology is to be correctly predicted in life."}
{"id": "17145197", "title": "Heterogeneous factors in dementia with Parkinson's disease: IMP-SPECT study.", "content": "Heterogeneous factors in dementia with Parkinson's disease: IMP-SPECT study. Nature of the dementing process in Parkinson's disease, and particularly its relationship with Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease or frontal dementia remains controversial. We hypothesize that origins of dementia in Parkinson's disease are heterogeneous, so we compared cortical regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) between Parkinson's disease patients with and without dementia. Forty consecutive patients with Hoehn-Yahr stage III or IV Parkinson's disease were used (13 patients had dementia (PDD group), and 27 patients had no dementia (PDND group)). There were significant rCBF reductions in the left parietal association cortex and left frontal association cortex in PDD. Multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that only rCBF of the left frontal association cortex was significant. PDD patients were divided into three groups according to rCBF patterns: frontal hypoperfusion group, Alzheimer's disease-like group, and diffuse Lewy body disease-like group. Controversial study results involving PDD patients may be mainly due to heterogeneity in dementing processes in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "17135459", "title": "Neuroimaging findings in human prion disease.", "content": "Neuroimaging findings in human prion disease. Imaging occupies an important role in the investigation of dementia and neurodegenerative disease. The role of imaging in prion disease used to be one of exclusion of other conditions. Over the past decade, the non-invasive nature of MRI, the improved range of magnetic resonance sequences and the availability of clinical and neuropathological correlation have led to a more prominent position of MRI and its inclusion in the diagnostic criteria for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. As experience of imaging in human prion disease increases, patterns of change related to strain and genotype may improve the diagnostic potential of imaging in the future, may reduce the need for more invasive testing and prove useful in future therapeutic trials. This paper reviews the current knowledge of imaging appearances in human prion disease."}
{"id": "17131421", "title": "RNA interference-mediated knockdown of alpha-synuclein protects human dopaminergic neuroblastoma cells from MPP(+) toxicity and reduces dopamine transport.", "content": "RNA interference-mediated knockdown of alpha-synuclein protects human dopaminergic neuroblastoma cells from MPP(+) toxicity and reduces dopamine transport. The critical observation in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is that neurodegeneration is largely restricted to dopaminergic neurons that develop cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. These aggregations contain the protein alpha-synuclein. Furthermore, it is becoming apparent that alpha-synuclein expression levels are a major factor in PD pathogenesis. Patients with additional copies of the alpha-synuclein gene develop PD with a severity proportional to levels of alpha-synuclein overexpression. Similarly, overexpression of alpha-synuclein in in vitro and in vivo models has been shown to be toxic. However, little is known about the effects of reducing alpha-synuclein expression in human neurons. To investigate this, we have developed a system in which levels of alpha-synuclein can be acutely suppressed by using RNA interference (RNAi) in a physiologically relevant human dopaminergic cellular model. By using small interfering RNA (siRNA) molecules targeted to endogenous alpha-synuclein, we achieved 80% protein knockdown. We show that alpha-synuclein knockdown has no effect on cellular survival either under normal growth conditions over 5 days or in the presence of the mitochondrial inhibitor rotenone. Knockdown does, however, confer resistance to the dopamine transporter (DAT)-dependent neurotoxin N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)). We then demonstrate for the first time that alpha-synuclein suppression decreases dopamine transport in human cells, reducing the maximal uptake velocity (V(max)) of dopamine and the surface density of its transporter by up to 50%. These results show that RNAi-mediated alpha-synuclein knockdown alters cellular dopamine homeostasis in human cells and may suggest a mechanism for the increased survival in the presence of MPP(+), a toxin used extensively to model Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "17056633", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography perfusion differences in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography perfusion differences in mild cognitive impairment. To relate cerebral perfusion abnormalities to subsequent changes in clinical status among patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images were acquired in 105 elderly patients without dementia with MCI, using 99mTc-HMPAO. Clinical outcome after a 5-year follow-up period was heterogeneous. Baseline SPECT data differed in those patients with MCI who were later diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (the converter group) from those patients with MCI who experienced clinically evident decline but did not progress to a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease within the follow-up period (the decliner group), from patients with MCI who had no clinical evidence of progression (the stable group), and from a group of 19 normal subjects (the control group). The most consistent decreases in relative perfusion in converters compared with the normal, stable and decliner groups were observed in the caudal anterior cingulate, and in the posterior cingulate. In addition, converters showed increased relative perfusion in the rostral anterior cingulate in comparison to the stable and decliner groups. A group of patients with Alzheimer's disease were also included for purposes of comparison. The group of patients with Alzheimer's disease at baseline differed from each of the other groups, with temporoparietal regions showing the most significant reductions in perfusion. These results suggest that clinical heterogeneity in MCI is reflected in SPECT perfusion differences, and that the pattern of perfusion abnormalities evolves with increasing clinical severity."}
{"id": "16824650", "title": "Imaging markers of mild cognitive impairment: multivariate analysis of CBF SPECT.", "content": "Imaging markers of mild cognitive impairment: multivariate analysis of CBF SPECT. This study aimed to investigate cross-sectional and longitudinal changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in preclinical dementia using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). SPECT and cognitive function were investigated in 39 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) subjects and 20 age-matched controls. All subjects were followed longitudinally 19 months on average, 16 MCI subjects progressed to Alzheimer's disease (AD), who were retrospectively defined as progressive mild cognitive impairment (PMCI) at baseline and 23 MCI subjects remained stable and were defined as stable mild cognitive impairment (SMCI) at baseline. SPECT was performed both at the initial investigation and at follow-up. Image data were analyzed using multivariate analysis, SPM and volume of interest (VOI)-based analysis. Significant covariate patterns were derived, which differentiate among PMCI, SMCI and controls at baseline as well as describe the longitudinal progression of PMCI. The combined SPECT and neuropsychology increased the diagnostic accuracy of PMCI at baseline. SPECT and neuropsychological testing can be used objectively for both baseline diagnosis and to monitor changes in brain function during very early AD."}
{"id": "17432190", "title": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALSD)].", "content": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALSD)]. Patients with ALSD show characteristic mental and behavioral changes, represented by lack of insight into their tragic condition. Psychiatric symptoms usually precede life-threatening motor neuron symptoms. Cerebral SPECT, especially 3D-SSP, exercises its power in the diagnosis of ALSD by demonstrating constant and sharp blood flow reduction in the prefrontal region. The neuropathology of the cerebral cortex is characterized by most prominent and probably earliest degeneration in the medial side cortex of the temporal pole, border zone between the CA1 and subiculum, ambient gyrus, and amygdala as well as cytoplasmic ubiquitinated inclusion bodies in the dentate gyrus granular neurons and other cortical small neurons. Motoneuron pathology is almost the same as that in classic ALS except for more prominent Bunina bodies and less affected pyramidal tract. The substantia nigra is usually degenerated without Lewy bodies. A condition recently proposed as motor neuron disease-inclusion dementia seems to be a forme froste of ALSD. Several cases of ALSD exhibited upper motor neuron-dominant involvement, showing the possibility that the category of ALSD may be widened than considered so far."}
{"id": "17330392", "title": "3DSRT evaluation of responses of Alzheimer type dementia to donepezil hydrochloride therapy.", "content": "3DSRT evaluation of responses of Alzheimer type dementia to donepezil hydrochloride therapy. Dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) has been diagnosed objectively by using single photon emission tomography (SPECT). Donepezil hydrochloride (donepezil) is available for the symptomatic treatment of DAT. In a quantitative evaluation of therapeutic response in DAT, to compare with regional cerebral blood flows (rCBF) of various lesions before and after treatment, uptake in some sorts of cerebral regions of interests (ROIs) were used to be measured. But ROI analysis has problems such as poor reproducibility and lack of objectivity. The aim of this study was to investigate the evaluation of therapeutic response by three-dimensional stereotaxic ROI template (3DSRT), fully automated ROI analysis software, which can objectively estimate rCBF. SPECT studies and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale Japan cognitive Subscale function test ADAS-Jcog, as recognitive function test were performed for 22 patients (16 females, 6 males mean age = 73.6 years) who were diagnosed as DAT. On 3DSRT, we compared ratios of the rCBF values of the parietal lobes, temporo-occipital lobes, hippocampus, corpus callosum and the frontal lobes/cerebellar hemispheres before and after medical treatment. To determine a cut-off number of areas exhibiting improved blood flow optimal as an indicator of improvement in cognitive function in response to treatment, receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis of number of areas improved blood flow was performed. The number of cases exhibiting changes in cognitive function was greatest when the cut-off number of areas exhibiting improved blood flow was set at 5. The possibility of evaluation of therapeutic response to Donepezil in patients with DAT using 3DSRT was thus demonstrated by our study."}
{"id": "17304479", "title": "Molecular imaging (SPECT and PET) in the evaluation of patients with movement disorders.", "content": "Molecular imaging (SPECT and PET) in the evaluation of patients with movement disorders. In this article the role of molecular imaging with SPECT and PET in patients with movement disorders is reviewed. It is mentioned that SPECT and PET imaging with cocaine analogues ((123)I-beta-CIT,(123)I-FP-CIT, (18)F-DOPA), radioligands labeling the presynaptic dopamine transporters, is of value for the differentiation of patients with PD or Parkinson-plus syndromes with individuals with essential tremor. In addition the clinical impact of this procedure, the role of molecular imaging in the preclinical diagnosis and in the follow-up of patients with PD, as well as, in the differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease and Lewy-body dementia, is evaluated. Finally, the clinical impact of (123)I-IBZM-SPECT imaging, a radiopharmaceutical which labels the postsynaptic D(2) receptors and the discrimination between idiopathic PD and Parkinson-plus syndromes (multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal ganglia degeneration), is mentioned."}
{"id": "17304473", "title": "Cerebral blood flow changes in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). A study of 6 cases.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow changes in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). A study of 6 cases. The aim of this study was to show the application of cerebral blood flow SPECT (rCBF SPECT) study in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). (99m)Tc-ECD regional cerebral blood flow SPECT scanning was performed using a triple head, high resolution gamma camera on a group of six patients who ful- -filled criteria for clinical diagnosis of DLB. All patients were examined neurologically by a neurologist specialized in movement disorders. Detailed neuropsychological examination was performed on each patient with a psychological tests battery by an experienced neuropsychologist. Qualitative and quantitative analysis was performed utilizing an asymmetry index for unilateral perfusion deficits and a comparison to cerebellar perfusion to assess regional cerebral perfusion. A control group of 20 patients was studied to assess normal values, utilizing an asymmetry index for unilateral perfusion deficits, and a comparison to cerebellar perfusion was performed to assess regional cerebral perfusion. In four cases rCBF SPECT images showed patterns of bilateral hypoperfusion of the temporal, parietal and occipital lobes. In two other cases parietal deficits were observed. Functional neuroimaging with the use of CBF SPECT may contribute to clinical diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "17294671", "title": "Predicting human performance by channelized Hotelling observer in discriminating between Alzheimer's dementia and controls using statistically processed brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Predicting human performance by channelized Hotelling observer in discriminating between Alzheimer's dementia and controls using statistically processed brain perfusion SPECT. We compared the diagnostic accuracy achieved by a human observer (nuclear medicine physician) and a channelized Hotelling (CH) observer on the basis of receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve for the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from SPECT images. The I-123-IMP brain perfusion SPECT images of 42 subjects (21 AD patients and 21 healthy controls) were used for an interpretation study and those of 10 healthy subjects were for a normal database. SPECT images were processed into four types: original SPECT images, three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3DSSP) images derived from them, Z-scores of SPECT images, and Z-scores of 3DSSP images. Five nuclear medicine physicians evaluated the test dataset sequentially as to whether the presented images were those of AD patients, which were rated using five categories of certainty: definitely, possibly, equivocally, possibly not, and definitely not. The test statistics (lambda) of the dataset generated by the CH observer were rated for ROC analysis. The areas under the ROC curves (Az) for the four image types interpreted by the human and CH observers were estimated and compared. Among the four image types, the best performance based on Az obtained by both the CH and human observers was observed for the Z-score of 3DSSP images, and the lowest was for the original SPECT images. The performance of the CH observer was similar to that of the human observers, and both were dependent on the image type. This indicates that the CH observer may predict human performance in discriminating Alzheimer's dementia and can be useful for comparing and optimizing image processing methods of brain perfusion SPECT without human observers."}
{"id": "17205862", "title": "Patterns of single photon emission tomography (SPECT) among patients with dementia in the memory clinic at Siriraj Hospital.", "content": "Patterns of single photon emission tomography (SPECT) among patients with dementia in the memory clinic at Siriraj Hospital. The authors hypothesized that there is a pattern difference in cerebralperfusion of the 99-Technitium L, L-ethyl cysteinate dimer Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (99-Tc ECD SPECT) between mild and moderate to severe dementia. The authors reported a retrospective study in the Memory Clinic, Siriraj Hospital between January 2001 and October 2003 including only patients with Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, and mixed dementia. Clinical dementia rating (CDR) was used to document dementia severity. Patterns of hypoperfusion were classified into no definite hypoperfusion, regional hypoperfusion, and diffused hypoperfusion. One hundred and seven patients were included in the present study. Only mean Thai Mental State Examination (TMSE) score was different between the two groups. There was no significant correlation between pattern of hypoperfusion in brain SPECT and severity of dementia. The authors cannot demonstrate the pattern of hypoperfusion of 99-Tc ECD SPECT among patients' difference in dementia severity."}
{"id": "17182396", "title": "Non-fluent progressive aphasia, depression, and OCD in a woman with progressive supranuclear palsy: neuroanatomical and neuropathological correlations.", "content": "Non-fluent progressive aphasia, depression, and OCD in a woman with progressive supranuclear palsy: neuroanatomical and neuropathological correlations. This paper details the case of a 64-year-old woman who presented to the psychiatry service with worsening mood in the context of a diagnosis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). On further examination she was found to have clinical findings consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration of the non-fluent progressive aphasia subtype. At post-mortem she was found to have progressive supranuclear palsy. We argue, in retrospect, that her OCD was likely prodromal to the development of her dementia. This case highlights the fact that frontotemporal lobar degeneration/progressive supranuclear palsy (FTLD/PSP) and other \"tauopathies\" represent a complex group of neurodegenerative disorders that may masquerade for many years as refractory psychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "17172610", "title": "A positron emission tomography study on the role of nigral lesions in parkinsonism in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.", "content": "A positron emission tomography study on the role of nigral lesions in parkinsonism in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) sometimes exhibit parkinsonism, but the lesion responsible for parkinsonism has not been extensively studied. To test whether nigrostriatal system dysfunction is responsible for parkinsonism in ALS. From the 182 ALS patients who were admitted to our neurology ward during the past 10 years, we extracted all the patients who satisfied the criteria of both parkinsonism and ALS. The University of Tokyo Hospital. We conducted [(18)F]L-dopa and [(11)C]N-methylspiperone positron emission tomography and technetium Tc 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography studies on 5 patients with ALS manifesting overt parkinsonism. Two male and 3 female patients (average age, 63.2 +/- 5.8 years) had ALS for an average of 28.6 +/- 21.5 months and had parkinsonism for an average of 15.2 +/- 11.4 months. Features of their parkinsonism were characterized by outstanding bradykinesia without resting tremor or dementia. The results of positron emission tomography studies indicated normal nigrostriatal function, but those of single-photon emission computed tomography demonstrated decreased blood flow in the frontotemporal cortices. It is likely that parkinsonism in ALS is due to cortical lesions rather than nigrostriatal dysfunction and that both symptoms are the clinical manifestation of frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron diseases, including classic ALS."}
{"id": "17134017", "title": "Effect of linearization correction on statistical parametric mapping (SPM): a 99mTc-HMPAO brain perfusion SPECT study in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effect of linearization correction on statistical parametric mapping (SPM): a 99mTc-HMPAO brain perfusion SPECT study in mild Alzheimer's disease. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was employed to investigate the regional decline in cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as measured by 99mTc-hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the role of the post reconstruction image processing on the interpretation of SPM, which detects rCBF pattern, has not been precisely studied. We performed 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in mild AD patients and analyzed the effect of linearization correction for washout of the tracer on the detectability of abnormal perfusion. Eleven mild AD (NINCDS-ADRDA, male/female, 5/6; mean+/-SD age, 70.6+/-6.2 years; mean+/-SD mini-mental state examination score, 23.9+/-3.41; clinical dementia rating score, 1) and eleven normal control subjects (male/female, 4/7; mean+/-SD age, 66.8+/-8.4 years) were enrolled in this study. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT was performed with a four-head rotating gamma camera. We employed linearization uncorrected (LU) and linearization corrected (LC) images for the patients and controls. The pattern of hypoperfusion in mild AD on LU and LC images was detected by SPM99 applying the same image standardization and analytical parameters. A statistical inter image-group analysis (LU vs. LC) was also performed. Clear differences were observed between the interpretation of SPM with LU and LC images. Significant hypoperfusion in mild AD was found on the LU images in the left posterior cingulate gyrus, right precuneus, left hippocampus, left uncus, and left superior temporal gyrus (cluster level, corrected p < 0.005). With the LC images, significant hypoperfusion in AD was found only in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus and left precuneus (cluster level, corrected p < 0.005). A pattern of greater rCBF distribution at the high flow cortices and low flow cortices was observed on LC and LU images, respectively, in the case of both controls and mild AD patients. Hippocampal hypoperfusion could be detected by means of SPM in the LU images but not in the LC images. The results of SPM may vary in 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT with or without linearization correction, which should be carefully evaluated when interpreting the pattern of rCBF changes in mild Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "17133330", "title": "[Semantic dementia, a many-worded disorder].", "content": "[Semantic dementia, a many-worded disorder]. Semantic dementia is a progressive, relatively selective disorder affecting the semantic system with involvement of the verbal and non-verbal functions. The clinical picture is well characterised despite the confusion that may be generated by the different ways of classifying it. AIM. To determine the clinical, neurolinguistic, imaging and pathological features of this progressive language disorder. Evaluation of language reveals above all the existence of semantic paraphasias, disorders affecting the comprehension of isolated words and surface dyslexia. Flow of speech, complex syntactic comprehension and grammar are preserved. Both episodic and autobiographic memory are close to normality. Both the clinical signs and symptoms and imaging studies agree on the fact that the most heavily affected area is the anteroinferomedial region of the temporal lobe on a bilateral scale but with predominance of the left-hand side. Pathologically, in most cases positive intraneuronal ubiquitin inclusions are observed like those described in motor neuron diseases. Semantic dementia constitutes a diagnosis challenge, mainly from the neuropsychological point of view. Further advances towards reaching a diagnosis would allow us to determine which area is mainly affected and, in the future, to find an effective treatment for this progressive, degenerative disorder."}
{"id": "17117070", "title": "Diagnosis of dementia using perfusion SPECT imaging at the patient's initial visit to a cognitive disorder clinic.", "content": "Diagnosis of dementia using perfusion SPECT imaging at the patient's initial visit to a cognitive disorder clinic. This study was performed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of brain perfusion SPECT in patients visiting the cognitive disorder clinic for initial evaluation using 3D-SSP compared with using standard transaxial section. Standard transaxial section displays and 3D-SSP z-score maps obtained after administration of Tc-99m ECD or I-123 IMP were randomly interpreted in 315 patients who visited initially to the cognitive disorder clinic (age 46-88 years; 162 women, 153 men). Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic accuracy were calculated and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed. One hundred thirty-seven patients were clinically diagnosed with Alzheimer disease and 178 patients were diagnosed with other disorders and age-associated cognitive decline. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic accuracy calculated using standard transaxial display were 61%, 70%, 61%, 70%, and 66%, respectively, and using the 3D-SSP z-score map were 90%, 74%, 73%, 90%, and 81%, respectively. Particularly, the sensitivity value improved in mild cases compared with severe cases using 3D-SSP. Diagnostic performance with 3D-SSP was superior in both mild dementia (Az = 0.64 [section] vs 0.81 [3D-SSP], P = 0.001) and severe dementia (Az = 0.75 [section] vs 0.90 [3D-SSP], P = 0.002). Brain perfusion SPECT was useful for diagnosis in patients who come to the cognitive disorder clinic for initial evaluation using 3D-SSP."}
{"id": "17099602", "title": "[Behavior disturbances in emergency psychiatry or fronto-temporal dementia diagnosis? A challenge for psychiatrists].", "content": "[Behavior disturbances in emergency psychiatry or fronto-temporal dementia diagnosis? A challenge for psychiatrists]. The diagnosis of fronto-temporal dementia (FTD) represents a challenge for the psychiatrist, especially since this insidious pathology partly mimics other psychiatric diseases. We present a clinical case that illustrates the difficulty of FTD diagnosis particularly well. A 32 year-old woman without previous medical history presented with psychomotor agitation, logorrhea and flight of ideas. The criteria for bipolar disorder according to DSM IV were met and the patient was referred to an outpatient clinic where a mood stabilizer was initiated (lithium, 400 mg/day). An in-depth interview with her husband revealed mild but progressive modification of her personality and behavior over the course of two years. She showed signs of mild fatigue and irritability that evolved into a loss of interest for both leisure and domestic activities. In addition, she showed increasing erratic behavior and emergence of frequent episodes of verbal abuse. After the birth of her second child, the patient's clinical state worsened with the appearance of uninhibited behavior, loss of personal hygiene, sleep disturbances and nightmares. The patient was forced to stop her work as a cleaner, a steady employment that she had maintained for 10 years. The hypomanic state worsened and psychotic symptoms such as delusions and echolalia appeared within a few weeks. These events culminated in a first hospitalization in a psychiatric unit. We evoked both diagnoses of schizoaffective disorder and psychotic disorder not otherwise specified. In the following months, we conducted neurological examinations on account of the progressive deterioration of her cognitive functions. Neuroradiological results (CT scan with contrast agents, MRI, cerebral scintigraphy) coupled with her clinical evolution (neurological examination and neuropsychological testing) permitted diagnosis of fronto-temporal dementia. Fronto-temporal dementia usually presents itself as an autosomal dominant disease in 89% of reported cases, with an insidious onset associated with thymic symptoms and behavioral disturbances. The first consultation often concludes with a suspicion of a psychiatric disorder in 33% of the cases (unipolar and bipolar depressive disorders, psychotic disorders, alcohol dependence). The clinical description of such a heterogenic and neuro-psychiatric disorder should be widely disseminated, so that psychiatrists can distinguish early symptoms and diminish the risk of misdiagnosis of FDT. Such case reports emphasize the importance for psychiatrists to be aware of the clinical prodromal FDT symptoms, particularly since the neuro-imaging data of dementia are often delayed."}
{"id": "17088679", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease as an indicator of cognitive impairment.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease as an indicator of cognitive impairment. To investigate the pattern of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) deficits in Parkinson's disease patients in relation to cognitive decline and to assess the clinical usefulness of single photon emission tomography (SPET) scanning in differentiation between Parkinson's disease patients with dementia and those without cognitive deficits. We performed Tc-ECD SPET in 60 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (F: 25, M: 35), with average age of 68.4 years (SD+/-7.3, range 51-81 years). All patients were examined neurologically with the assessment of stage and severity of Parkinson's disease (Hoehn-Yahr scale, UPDRS, Schwab-England scale). Detailed neuropsychological examination was performed in each Parkinson's disease patient. On the basis of DSM-IV criteria of dementia and the results obtained in psychological examination, the whole group was divided into three subgroups: I, with no cognitive changes (n = 17); II, with mild cognitive impairment (n = 25); and III, with dementia (n = 18). There was noticeable significant decrease of perfusion in all areas in Parkinson's disease patients when compared to the age-matched control group of healthy volunteers (n = 20). In group III, perfusion was significantly decreased (when compared to groups I and II), particularly in parietal and temporal areas with the predominance of the left side. Regression analysis revealed two independent factors related to dementia: decrease of perfusion within left temporal lobe and its increase within left thalamus. Parkinson's disease patients with dementia showed left temporo-parietal hypoperfusion as compared to a group of patients without dementia, which resembles perfusion deficits described in Alzheimer's disease. The hypoperfusion of the left temporal lobe with increase of rCBF within the left thalamus might be clinically useful in discrimination of Parkinson's disease patients with dementia against those without cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "17077051", "title": "Can dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging replace single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of patients with Alzheimer's disease? A pilot study.", "content": "Can dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging replace single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of patients with Alzheimer's disease? A pilot study. To compare single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a cohort of patients examined for suspected dementia, including patients with no objective cognitive impairment (control group), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Twenty-four patients, eight with AD, 10 with MCI, and six controls were investigated with SPECT using 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) and dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging (DSC-MRI) with gadobutrol. Three observers performed a visual interpretation of the SPECT and MR images using a four-point visual scale. SPECT was superior to DSC-MRI in differentiating normal from pathological. All three observers showed statistically significant results in discriminating between the control group, AD, and MCI by SPECT, with a P value of 0.0006, 0.04, and 0.01 for each observer. The statistical results were not significant for MR (P values 0.8, 0.1, and 0.2, respectively). DSC-MRI could not replace SPECT in the diagnosis of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Several patient- and method-related improvements should be made before this method can be recommended for clinical practice."}
{"id": "17071924", "title": "Demographic, neurological and behavioural characteristics and brain perfusion SPECT in frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Demographic, neurological and behavioural characteristics and brain perfusion SPECT in frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia. We conducted a French multicentric cross-sectional study to describe in detail the demographic, neurological and behavioural characteristics of the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fvFTD) and to characterize the pattern of brain perfusion SPECT in comparison to a healthy control group. A total of 68 fvFTD patients had technetium-99m-ECD brain perfusion SPECT at inclusion, 61 of which also underwent an in-depth evaluation including 70 items assessing behaviour, language and affect/emotion at onset and at inclusion. The mean age-at-onset was 60.4 +/- 7.8 years (35-75). Twenty-six per cent of the patients were older than 65 at onset. A positive familial history consistent with an autosomal dominant inheritance was found in 18% of the patients. At onset, the behavioural profile was predominantly inert in 25% of the patients, disinhibited in 18% and mixed in others. The behavioural features progressed to predominantly mixed or inert forms. Although, inertia was associated with predominant medial frontal and cingulate hypoperfusion, and patients with disinhibition exhibited predominant ventromedial prefrontal and temporal hypoperfusion, there were no major clinical differences between disinhibited and inert patients. Forty-five per cent of the deceased patients survived <6 years (short survival), and 34% of the patients survived >8 years (long survival). This shows that the final outcome of fvFTD is highly variable. No clinical factors predictive of short or long survival were identified. Unexpected, however, was the finding that brainstem hypoperfusion distinguished patients with a short survival from patients with long survival. In conclusion, this study shows that fvFTD is clinically a rather homogeneous entity. It also provides evidence that different behavioural presentations at onset are related to different anatomical localizations of degenerative damage. Finally, it demonstrates the prognostic value of brainstem hypoperfusion in a subgroup of patients with a short survival."}
{"id": "17030755", "title": "Hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease by arterial spin labeling MRI.", "content": "Hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease by arterial spin labeling MRI. To test if arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI could detect a pattern of hypoperfusion in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) vs cognitively normal (CN) control subjects; to determine the regional difference of perfusion between FTD and Alzheimer disease (AD); and to determine whether hypoperfusion in FTD correlates with cognitive impairment. We included 21 patients with FTD, 24 patients with AD, and 25 CN subjects in this cross-sectional MRI study. All subjects had MRI scans including T1-weighted structural images and ASL-MR images. ASL-MRI detected a pattern of hypoperfusion in right frontal regions in patients with FTD vs CN subjects, similar to PET and SPECT. FTD had higher perfusion than AD in the parietal regions and posterior cingulate. Frontal hypoperfusion in FTD correlated with deficits in judgment and problem solving. Adding frontal perfusion to gray matter (GM) atrophy significantly improved the classification of FTD from normal aging to 74%, and adding parietal perfusion to GM atrophy significantly improved the classification of FTD from AD to 75%. Combining frontal and parietal lobe perfusion further improved the classification of FTD from AD to 87%. Frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease display different spatial distributions of hypoperfusion on arterial spin labeling MRI. With further development and evaluation, arterial spin labeling MRI could contribute to the differential diagnosis between frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "17030534", "title": "Novel splicing mutation in the progranulin gene causing familial corticobasal syndrome.", "content": "Novel splicing mutation in the progranulin gene causing familial corticobasal syndrome. Corticobasal syndrome (CBS) is a rare cognitive and movement disorder characterized by asymmetric rigidity, apraxia, alien-limb phenomenon, cortical sensory loss, myoclonus, focal dystonia, and dementia. It occurs along the clinical spectrum of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), which has recently been shown to segregate with truncating mutations in progranulin (PGRN), a multifunctional growth factor thought to promote neuronal survival. This study identifies a novel splice donor site mutation in the PGRN gene (IVS7+1G-->A) that segregates with CBS in a Canadian family of Chinese origin. We confirmed the absence of the mutant PGRN allele in the RT-PCR product which supports the model of haploinsufficiency for PGRN-linked disease. This report of mutation in the PGRN gene in CBS extends the evidence for genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity in FTLD spectrum disorders."}
{"id": "17028562", "title": "[Brain profile of hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: relationships with cognitive deficits and atrophy].", "content": "[Brain profile of hypometabolism in early Alzheimer's disease: relationships with cognitive deficits and atrophy]. While accurate and early prediction of patients that will develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the near future is urgently needed, the amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) state is of particular interest since it most conveniently represents the pre-dementia stage of AD. Consistently, the profile of brain functional alteration constantly evidenced in resting-state SPECT and PET studies is similar to that observed in mild AD, mainly involving the posterior cingulate and temporo-parietal regions. While the former is a characteristic feature of MCI, since it is present in each patient at this stage, the latter seems specifically associated with the future conversion to AD. Moreover, right temporo-parietal hypometabolism has been found to be the best predictor of subsequent global cognitive decline, over and above neuropsychological and MRI volumetric measurements. This review also presents a discussion on the relationships between the brain profile of hypometabolism on the one hand, and cognitive impairment as well as cerebral structural alterations on the other. Thus, firstly, while functional impairment in the posterior cingulate region seems to be associated with deficits in retrieval of episodic memories in MCI, the relationship between right temporo-parietal hypometabolism and cognitive impairment is still obscure. However, several arguments point to its relation with visuo-spatial deficits, which are often associated with future conversion to AD. Secondly, the discordance between brain areas of major functional changes, and those of highest structural alterations, leads to some relevant questions about the relations between both pathological manifestations and their underlying mechanisms. More specifically, additional hypometabolism-inducing factors could occur in areas of highest hypometabolism compared to atrophy, i.e. mainly in posterior associative cortical regions, leading to genuine functional perturbation in early AD before the development of real atrophy and perhaps of disease as well. By contrast, the hippocampus is the main site of atrophy while its functional alteration is still debated, suggesting that compensation/protective mechanisms probably specifically occur in this structure to maintain a high level of metabolism relative to its structural alteration."}
{"id": "17022798", "title": "Frontal lobe syndrome or adolescent-onset schizophrenia? A case report.", "content": "Frontal lobe syndrome or adolescent-onset schizophrenia? A case report. To highlight the difficulties that abound in making a clinical distinction between early-onset schizophrenia (EOS) and juvenile frontal dementia early in the course of illness. Clinical information and data from investigations in single case was collated and reviewed. A 15-year-old girl was admitted to our psychiatric unit because of cognitive decline and formal thought disorder with echopraxia, echolalia and palilalia, and a lack of flexibility in the use of cognitive and motor strategies that culminated in psychosis. A single photon emission computerized tomography scan showed marked frontal lobe hypoperfusion; however, on proton spectroscopy there was no differential in N-acetyl aspartate levels. Hypofrontality in EOS is well established and the association of frontal functional alterations, neuropsychological impairment and psychotic symptomatology is suggestive of frontal lobe prodrome that precedes the onset of psychosis."}
{"id": "17007476", "title": "[Diagnosing frontotemporal dementia, a chameleon in psychiatry].", "content": "[Diagnosing frontotemporal dementia, a chameleon in psychiatry]. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) generally has a presenile onset, behavioural problems dominate the clinical picture and cognitive functions are still relatively intact. Therefore particularly in the early stages of FTD it is difficult to differentiate this type of dementia from other types of dementia and psychiatric disorders. To review the options currently available for diagnosing FTD and to evaluate their significance for clinical practice. A literature search via PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library (1999-2005) using the key words 'frontotemporal dementia' and 'diagnosis' or 'differential diagnosis'. Genetic and post-mortem studies were excluded. The selected literature concerned differential clinical symptoms, neuropsychological research and questionnaires, neuroimaging and fluid abnormalities and dealt mainly with the difference between FTD and other types of dementia but not with differences between FTD and psychiatric disorders. Measuring instruments that are helpful for diagnosing FTD are the Manchester Behavioural Questionnaire, the Frontal Behaviour Inventory and the Frontal Assessment Battery. Even better indicators of FTD are asymmetrical frontotemporal structural abnormalities in a CT- or MRI-scan and a decrease infrontal metabolism and perfusion in a PET- or SPECT-scan, although not all detected abnormalities are specific for FTD. Whatever the method used, early diagnosis is difficult; the sensitivity of nearly all diagnostic methods increases as the illness progresses. On the basis of this review of the literature some diagnostic techniques are recommended that can be applied if FTD is suspected."}
{"id": "17005204", "title": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using Mini-Mental State Examination and brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using Mini-Mental State Examination and brain perfusion SPECT. To determine whether combined studies of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and brain single photon emission CT (SPECT) would provide more useful means of differentiating between dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), we studied 36 patients with probable DLB and 96 patients with probable AD. DLB patients had significantly better performance on word recall, but more impaired attention and copying than AD patients. We confirmed that a weighted score derived by Ala et al. [Ala, T.A., Hughes, L.F., Kyrouac, G.A., Ghobrial, M.W., Elble, R.J. The Mini-Mental State exam may help in the differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer' disease. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry 2002;17:503-9]: (Attention-5/3.Memory+5.Construction), was helpful in discriminating between DLB and AD. SPECT study revealed that medial occipital perfusion significantly decreased in DLB patients than AD patients. Combined studies of MMSE and brain SPECT achieved a high discrimination between DLB and AD with a sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 85%, suggesting that there is a useful and practical approach to differentiate DLB from AD. Our findings will need to be substantiated in an independent and prospective study sample."}
{"id": "17003069", "title": "Progranulin gene mutations associated with frontotemporal dementia and progressive non-fluent aphasia.", "content": "Progranulin gene mutations associated with frontotemporal dementia and progressive non-fluent aphasia. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) refers to a focal, non-Alzheimer form of cerebral degeneration that encompasses the distinct clinical syndromes of frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) and semantic dementia. Some patients show tau-based pathological changes and in familial cases mutations have been identified in the microtubule-associated protein tau gene (MAPT) on chromosome 17q21. However, many cases are tau-negative, showing instead ubiquitin-immunoreactive (UBQ-ir) neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions and neurites, and in some familial cases UBQ-ir neuronal intranuclear inclusions of a lentiform appearance. Very recently, mutations have been identified in familial cases in the progranulin (PGRN) gene, also on chromosome 17q21. Clinical, pathological and molecular diversity within FTLD highlights the importance of careful examination of clinical-pathological-genetic relationships. This paper reports, for the first time, a clinico-pathological investigation of two FTLD families with PGRN mutations, and compares the clinical characteristics with those of patients studied in the department with MAPT mutations. The clinical profile associated with PGRN mutations constituted, in some patients, a prototypical picture of FTD and in others one of PNFA, both profiles occurring within the same family. Patients with PGRN mutations exhibited phonological deficits, whereas in patients with MAPT mutations language abnormalities, when present in addition to the prominent behavioural disorder, take the form of semantic disturbance. The findings provide compelling evidence for the link between FTD and PNFA, while raising the possibility of identifiable clinical differences between FTLD patients with MAPT and PGRN mutations."}
{"id": "17000465", "title": "The neurotoxin, MPP+, induces hyperphosphorylation of Tau, in the presence of alpha-Synuclein, in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.", "content": "The neurotoxin, MPP+, induces hyperphosphorylation of Tau, in the presence of alpha-Synuclein, in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized, in part, by intracellular neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated filamentous aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein, Tau. Such hyperphosphorylated Tau is also found in Lewy bodies (LBs), and cytoplasmic inclusion bodies in certain forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Further, LBs also contain aggregates of alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn), also a microtubule-associated protein, which has been linked to the genesis of PD. To investigate a specific correlation between Tau phosphorylation and alpha-Syn, we generated a SH-SY5Y cell line that stably expresses human wild type alpha-Syn. Protein expression levels in the stably transfected cell line (SHalpha-Syn) were within the physiological range of alpha-Syn expression found in Substantia nigra. We show here, in the MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion) cell model of parkinsonism, a time- and dose-dependent increase in the hyperphosphorylation of Tau at pSer396/404 (PHF-1-reactive Tau, p-Tau), concomitant with increased accumulation of alpha-Syn, upon treatment of cells with the neurotoxin. This increase in p-Tau was strictly dependent on the presence of alphaSyn, since in transfected cells not expressing any alpha-Syn, MPP+ failed to induce an increase in PHF-1-reactive Tau. The production of p-Tau caused increased cytotoxicity as indexed by reduced cell viability. Moreover, in the absence of alpha-Syn, the cells were more resistant to MPP+ -induced cell death. The increased levels of both p-Tau and alpha-Syn led to diminished levels of these proteins associated with the cytoskeleton, which was accompanied by enhanced presence of the proteins in the cytoskeletal-free fractions. These data indicate that alpha-Syn and p-Tau modulate the pathogenicity of one another, suggesting a novel convergent mechanism of neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "16999337", "title": "[Case with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who shows reduplicative paramnesia and Capgras syndrome].", "content": "[Case with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who shows reduplicative paramnesia and Capgras syndrome]. We report a case of probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), showing reduplicative paramnesia (RP) and Capgras syndrome (CS). The patient, a right-handed 60 year-old male, began to show progressive dementia. At the age of 65, he showed fluctuating cognitive impairment and recurrent visual hallucinations. His SPECT demonstrated hypoperfusion not in the medial temporal cortices, but in the parieto-occipital lobes, where the right hemisphere was dominantly hypoperfused. He was diagnosed with probable DLB. In addition to recurrent visual hallucinations, he showed a sense of self- (or others) transfiguration, consciousness of something non-existent (Leibhaftige Bewusstheit; Jaspers, K.), and fluctuating visuo-spacial impairment. At the age of 67, he gradually complained of his duplicative wives \"sosie\". Finally he went so far as to talk about a nameless phantom boarder. We considered that RP and CS of this case comprised a sense of self-(or others) transfiguration, misidentification of important persons and places, and productive symptoms such as consciousness of something non-existent (Leibhaftige Bewusstheit) and visual hallucinations. The above mentioned symptoms might be originated not only from the disturbance of visuospacial recognition, which involves the limbic system (especially amygdala), medial frontal cortex, and right hemisphere of the brain, but also from the disturbance of recursive consciousness, due to diffusely damaged brain regions with Lewy body pathology. (Authors' abstract)"}
{"id": "16996088", "title": "Comparison of regional cerebral blood flow in two subsets of subcortical ischemic vascular dementia: statistical parametric mapping analysis of SPECT.", "content": "Comparison of regional cerebral blood flow in two subsets of subcortical ischemic vascular dementia: statistical parametric mapping analysis of SPECT. The brain imaging criteria for subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (SIVD), as proposed by Erkinjuntti, incorporated two clinical entities, the lacunar state and Binswanger's disease. However it has not been proven whether these two subtypes of SIVD have common pathophysiological features. This study investigated the changes of regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the two subsets of SIVD to establish whether these two subtypes could be incorporated into the same group for the purpose of conducting clinical trials. Twelve SIVD patients with predominant white matter lesions, 13 patients with predominant lacunar infarctions and 17 controls were evaluated. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed to measure the regional CBF, and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was applied to the analysis of the SPECT data. The normalized CBF (nCBF) in the bilateral thalami, the anterior cingulate gyri, the superior temporal gyri, the caudate heads and the left parahippocampal gyrus was significantly decreased in the SIVD patients compared to the controls. This pattern of nCBF reduction was same in both the two subtypes of SIVD patients. Our study suggests that the two subsets of SIVD may have a common nCBF abnormality, and Erkinjuntti's criteria offer a solution for researchers to identify the more homogeneous group of vascular dementia patients."}
{"id": "16986699", "title": "[Case presenting both clinical features of progressive supranuclear palsy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].", "content": "[Case presenting both clinical features of progressive supranuclear palsy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis]. A 70-year-old Japanese male farmer, born and living in Kyoto prefecture, developed gait disturbance, with tendency to fall at age 68, and muscle atrophy and weakness of the right shoulder and arm a year and half later. All symptoms have been progressive ever since. The patient manifested marked dementia, parkinsonism associated with limitation of ocular movements in all directions with slow saccade, loss of startle reflex, asymmetric muscle atrophy and weakness in shoulder girdles and upper limbs with hyperreflexia, and positive Babinski reflexes. The needle electromyogram showed evidence of active denervation. Brain MRI showed cortical atrophy in the frontal and temporal lobes, and midbrain tegmentum. Cerebral blood flow image on SPECT suggested hypoperfusion in the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices and basal ganglia bilaterally. Thus, it is most likely that the present case suffered from clinical features of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and progressive supranuclear palsy at the same time. Relation to the ALS/Parkinsonism/Dementia complex reported from Kii peninsula and Guam was discussed."}
{"id": "16986115", "title": "Evaluation of treatment effects in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases by MRI and MRS.", "content": "Evaluation of treatment effects in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases by MRI and MRS. Neurodegeneration refers to a large clinically and pathologically heterogeneous disease entity associated with slowly progressive neuronal loss in different anatomical and functional systems of the brain. Neurodegenerative diseases often affect cognition, e.g. Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies and vascular dementia, or different aspects of the motor system, e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and ataxic disorders. Owing to increasing knowledge about the mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration, the development of treatments able to modify the neurodegenerative process becomes possible for the first time. Currently, clinical outcome measures are used to assess the efficacy of such treatments. However, most clinical outcome measures have a low test-retest reliability and thus considerable measurement variance. Therefore, large patient populations and long observation times are needed to detect treatment effects. Furthermore, clinical outcome measures cannot distinguish between symptomatic and disease-modifying treatment effects. Therefore, alternative biomarkers including neuroimaging may take on a more important role in this process. Because MR scanners are widely available and allow for non-invasive detection and quantification of changes in brain structure and metabolism, there is increasing interest in the use of MRI/MRS to monitor objectively treatment effects in clinical trials of neurodegenerative diseases. Particularly volumetric MRI has been used to measure atrophy rates in treatment trials of AD because the relationship between atrophic changes and neuron loss is well established and correlates well with clinical measures. More research is needed to determine the value of other MR modalities, i.e. diffusion, perfusion and functional MRI and MR spectroscopy, for clinical trials with neuroprotective drugs."}
{"id": "16959499", "title": "In vivo SPECT imaging of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors using (R,R) 123I-QNB in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia.", "content": "In vivo SPECT imaging of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors using (R,R) 123I-QNB in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia. Alterations in cholinergic function have been reported to be associated with dementia. The aim of this study was to investigate differences in the distribution of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) using (R,R) 123I-iodo-quinuclidinyl-benzilate (QNB) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) and age-matched controls. 123I-QNB binding was also compared to the corresponding cerebral perfusion changes in the same subjects. 63 subjects (24 controls, 14 DLB, 25 PDD) underwent 123I-QNB and perfusion 99mTc-exametazine SPECT scanning. Image analysis, using statistical parametric mapping (SPM99), involved spatial normalisation of each image to a customised template, followed by smoothing and intensity normalisation of each image to its corresponding mean whole brain uptake. Group effects and correlations were assessed using two sample t tests and linear regression respectively. Relative to controls, significant elevation of 123I-QNB binding was apparent in the right occipital lobe in DLB and right and left occipital lobes in PDD (height threshold p<or=0.001 uncorrected). PDD also showed significant loss in uptake in frontal regions and temporal lobes bilaterally that was not present in DLB. These patterns appeared to be independent of any corresponding rCBF changes. Significant elevation of mAChRs in the occipital lobe was associated with DLB and PDD. This may relate to the visual disturbances that are prevalent in these disorders. Further studies are required in order to establish the role of mAChRs in visual function."}
{"id": "16948293", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia-like phenotypes associated with presenilin-1 mutations.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia-like phenotypes associated with presenilin-1 mutations. Frontal behavioral changes may be the presenting features of single-photon emission tomography (presenilin-1 [PS-1]) mutations, the most common cause of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). The authors describe a PS-1 (M233L) mutation with the features of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and review the literature. PS-1 mutations may produce FTD-like phenotypes with the neuropathology of AD. Some PS-1 mutations have additional Pick's bodies, a neuropathological marker of FTD, and a report of a PS-1 (G183V) mutation found Pick's bodies without amyloid plaques. The patient and the literature suggest that PS-1 mutations result in an overlapping continuum of the clinical and neuropathological features of AD and FTD. In PS-1 mutations, the expression of AD or FTD may depend on the degree of loss of function of the PS-1 gene and the resultant tau pathophysiology."}
{"id": "16880360", "title": "Diagnostic issues in dementia: neuroimaging as a surrogate marker of disease.", "content": "Diagnostic issues in dementia: neuroimaging as a surrogate marker of disease. Structural neuroimaging is a routine component of the diagnostic evaluation of dementia that is used to rule out potential causes of mental impairment, whereas functional imaging can differentiate different forms of dementia. Neuroimaging also offers promise as a surrogate marker for clinical trials, and new technologies have been developed to provide measures of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. Combining imaging with genetic risk data will likely improve diagnostic accuracy. These new findings warrant reconsideration of current guidelines on the use of neuroimaging in diagnosis and research in dementia."}
{"id": "16880359", "title": "Biomarkers in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: are we ready?", "content": "Biomarkers in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: are we ready? Although clinical manifestations of cognitive dysfunction and impairments of activities of daily living are the current standard measures for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, biomarkers are receiving increasing attention in research centers as possible early diagnostic measures or as surrogate measures of the ongoing pathology. In preparation for the upcoming development of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed; DSM-V) nosology, the American Psychiatric Association has sponsored an effort to reassess the current approaches to diagnosis in dementia in general and Alzheimer's disease in particular. This article focuses on the potential use of biomarkers in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, in the monitoring of mild cognitive impairment, and as possible prognostic markers in normal controls at risk for dementia. Most advanced information is available with the biomarkers found in the cerebrospinal fluid, but there are many other potential biomarkers using blood, brain imaging, or a combination. The current biomarker approaches to diagnosis are reviewed along with a special emphasis on near-term recommendations and further research directions."}
{"id": "16875340", "title": "Usefulness of measurement of the temporal stem on magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Usefulness of measurement of the temporal stem on magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia. To investigate whether measurements of brain structures on routine magnetic resonance (MR) images can be used to distinguish between normal subjects and patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or Alzheimer's disease (AD). MRI studies were performed on 30 patients with dementia (FTD, n = 15; AD, n = 15) and 15 age-matched controls. Width measurements, obtained at the corpus callosum, the cingulate gyri, the hippocampi, and the temporal stem of the anterior temporal lobes, were compared among FTD and AD patients and control subjects on oblique-coronal T2-weighted images. The width of the temporal stem was significantly narrower in FTD than in AD patients and control subjects (6.3 +/- 1.3 mm, 7.8 +/- 1.1 mm, and 8.2 +/- 0.9 mm, respectively) (P < 0.05), although there was some overlapping between AD and FTD patients. All patients whose temporal stem width was < 6 mm had FTD. While the width of the corpus callosum, cingulate gyri, and hippocampi was significantly narrower in patients with AD and FTD than in the controls, there was no significant difference between the AD and FTD patients. The width of the temporal stem was significantly narrower in patients with FTD than in those with AD and controls. The described measurements can easily be obtained and may be useful for the diagnosis of FTD."}
{"id": "16856518", "title": "[A patient with HIV encephalopathy presenting with parkinsonism during HAART therapy].", "content": "[A patient with HIV encephalopathy presenting with parkinsonism during HAART therapy]. We report the case of a 32-year-old man presenting symptoms of parkinsonism. Neurological examination revealed parkinsonism symptoms such as akinesia and postural instability, dementia and frontal lobe signs. He was diagnosed as having human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) encephalopathy. Brain MRI, 99mTc ECD-SPECT and 1H-MR spectroscopy demonstrated symmetrical cerebral white matter lesions, predominantly in the bilateral frontal lobes. Frontal lobe dysfunction could be responsible for his parkinsonism associated with HIV encephalopathy. His neurological symptoms improved transiently after the initiation of HAART but fluctuated when antiretroviral drugs were changed because of their side effects. Although HAART effectively decreased plasma HIV-RNA load and increased peripheral blood CD4 cell count, his parkinsonism and dementia eventually exacerbated. Our results suggest that a combination of antiretroviral drugs affects the therapeutic efficacy against HIV encephalopathy, and that CNS symptoms could be aggravated during HAART, even when plasma HIV-RNA load and CD4 cell count are maintained under favorable conditions."}
{"id": "16838258", "title": "[Reversible dementias and treatable dementias].", "content": "[Reversible dementias and treatable dementias]. When studying patients with dementia the search of reversible or treatable entities has a primordial role. Many patients do not recover the previous cognitive level; however, that does not signify that the disease is not treatable with partial recovery or prevention of secondary progression. The prevalence of reversible dementias is around 15% in most series. Rutine studies include complete blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, electrolytes and chemistry panel, liver function tests, vitamin B12 and folate serum levels, urianalysis and syphilis serology. Special tests such as thyroid function tests, protein electrophoresis, human immunodeficiency virus serology, heavy metals serum levels, electrocardiography, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, and chest roentnography should be performed according to the patient clinical profile. Neuroimaging should be done in all cases. Non-contrasted computed tomography must be performed first. Magnetic resonance imaging is most useful for searching for more subtle structure abnormalities. Electroencephalogram, positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography are not recommended as routine studies. Brain biopsy is indicated in few cases. Most common causes of reversible and treatable dementias include: medications, obstructive hydrocephalus, infectious, vascular, immunological, psychiatric, toxic and metabolic disorders, among others."}
{"id": "16834706", "title": "MRI and SPECT studies of dural arteriovenous fistulas presenting as pure progressive dementia with leukoencephalopathy: a cause of treatable dementia.", "content": "MRI and SPECT studies of dural arteriovenous fistulas presenting as pure progressive dementia with leukoencephalopathy: a cause of treatable dementia. We report two patients with dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) who presented with pure progressive dementia. Both patients showed only slowly progressive dementia, without headache, papilledema and other neurologic signs associated with diffuse white matter changes in MRI. MR cerebral angiography showed sigmoid sinus DAVFs that were mainly supplied by the occipital artery, together with retrograde filling of the superior sagittal and straight sinus and dilated cortical veins. SPECT studies showed extensive blood flow reduction in the occipital and parieto-occipital areas and right temporal lobe in one patient. Selective embolization for treatment of the DAVF improved cognitive function associated with the abnormal white matter MRI signal. MRI and SPECT showed that severity of dementia correlated with diffuse white matter changes and regional cerebral blood flow. Our cases suggest that gradually impaired cerebral circulation due to venous hypertensive encephalopathy could be involved in slowly progressive dementia with leukoencephalopathy resulting from a DAVF. DAVFs may be particularly important for differential diagnosis in elderly patients with pure progressive dementia. Thus, early diagnosis of DAVFs and treatment by endovascular surgery is important as treatable or reversible dementia."}
{"id": "16805778", "title": "Molecular mechanisms for Alzheimer's disease: implications for neuroimaging and therapeutics.", "content": "Molecular mechanisms for Alzheimer's disease: implications for neuroimaging and therapeutics. Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterised by the gradual onset of dementia. The pathological hallmarks of the disease are beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic loss and reactive gliosis. The current therapeutic effort is directed towards developing drugs that reduce Abeta burden or toxicity by inhibiting secretase cleavage, Abeta aggregation, Abeta toxicity, Abeta metal interactions or by promoting Abeta clearance. A number of clinical trials are currently in progress based on these different therapeutic strategies and they should indicate which, if any, of these approaches will be efficacious. Current diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is made by clinical, neuropsychologic and neuroimaging assessments. Routine structural neuroimaging evaluation with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging is based on non-specific features such as atrophy, a late feature in the progression of the disease, hence the crucial importance of developing new approaches for early and specific recognition at the prodromal stages of Alzheimer's disease. Functional neuroimaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography, possibly in conjunction with other related Abeta biomarkers in plasma and CSF, could prove to be valuable in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, as well as in assessing prognosis. With the advent of new therapeutic strategies there is increasing interest in the development of magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents and positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography radioligands that will permit the assessment of Abeta burden in vivo."}
{"id": "16788863", "title": "[SPECT and PET in neurology].", "content": "[SPECT and PET in neurology]. Both single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) are helpful in the practice of neurology. Ictal SPECT is useful to determine the origin of focal seizures in the pre-surgical evaluation. In some centers, it is used to predict the likelihood of massive cerebral swelling after stroke and of cerebral infarction after a subarachnoid hemorrhage. It has also been used to study dopaminergic function in parkinsonian syndromes and in the evaluation of dementia. Given its higher resolution and some other factors, PET is more useful in the evaluation of brain tumors, dementia and the parkinsonian syndromes. It is also useful in the presurgical evaluation of epilepsy."}
{"id": "16785801", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in the differential diagnosis of the dementias with histopathologic confirmation.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in the differential diagnosis of the dementias with histopathologic confirmation. The purpose of this study is to determine the value of Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in the diagnosis of the dementias, with particular reference to Alzheimer disease. Tc-99m HMPAO was used with a 3-camera scanner to produce 5 sets of sectional images of the brain. Diagnosis was made by a physician blinded to the clinical diagnosis. Results in 49 subjects were ultimately compared with neuropathologic study of the brain at autopsy. Sensitivity = 86.7% (68.4-95.6%, 95% confidence interval [CI]), specificity = 89.5% (65.5-98.2% CI), positive predictive value = 92.9% (75.0-98.8% CI), negative predictive value = 81% (57.4-93.7% CI), accuracy = 87.8% (74.5-94.9% CI), likelihood ratio = 8.23% (7.09-9.57% CI). Comparison is made with several other SPECT and PET series with histopathologic correlation. Brain blood flow SPECT is useful in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of the dementias."}
{"id": "16774664", "title": "Atypical posterior cortical atrophy: a diagnostic and treatment dilemma.", "content": "Atypical posterior cortical atrophy: a diagnostic and treatment dilemma."}
{"id": "16774663", "title": "Complex visual hallucination and mirror sign in posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Complex visual hallucination and mirror sign in posterior cortical atrophy. In posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), visual hallucinations are rare symptoms and mirror sign has not been described. Single case report. We reported a 60-year-old woman with PCA who reported complex visual hallucinations, such as a man walking in her room, and mirror sign, which was the perception of a stranger staring at her when she looked into a mirror. She could not recognize images of herself in the mirror correctly, although she could recognize that a person standing next to her and the images of that person reflected in the mirror were the same person. Early complex visual hallucinations in this patient appeared to be more characteristic of dementia with Lewy body than Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is hard to explain mirror sign in this patient as being because of either prosopagnosia, Balint's syndrome or advanced AD. This patient may have other underlying cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "16769939", "title": "Early clinical signs and imaging findings in Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome (Pro102Leu).", "content": "Early clinical signs and imaging findings in Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome (Pro102Leu). To determine the clinical and radiologic features of Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome caused by Pro102Leu mutation in PRNP (GSS102). The authors report 11 patients (nine families) with clinically and radiologically diagnosed GSS102. All patients showed mild gait disturbance, dysesthesia and hyporeflexia of the lower legs, and truncal ataxia, and 9 of 11 patients showed proximal leg muscle weakness during the early stage of the disease. Dementia was not a main symptom during the early stage. Brain MRI and EEG abnormalities were not prominent initially. SPECT (N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine) analyzed by the three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (SSP) method detected abnormalities in five patients early during the course of the illness. SPECT findings showed diffusely decreased cerebral blood flow, demonstrated by a mosaic pattern, with the lowest perfusion noted in the occipital lobes. In contrast, blood flow to the cerebellum was preserved. These studies suggested sites of pathology in GSS102, with the main lesions probably located in the cerebrum and the spinal cord (posterior horn and spinocerebellar tract) instead of the cerebellum. Key features for early diagnosis of Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome caused by Pro102Leu mutation in PRNP (GSS102) are truncal ataxia, dysesthesia and hyporeflexia of the lower legs, and mild dysarthria. Normal cerebellar MRI and abnormal cerebral SPECT findings are characters of early GSS102."}
{"id": "16768957", "title": "[Dementia--diagnosis and treatment in a geriatric memory clinic].", "content": "[Dementia--diagnosis and treatment in a geriatric memory clinic]. Today it is certain that dementia is caused by a disease and not by ageing. The field is within the neurological, psychiatric and geriatric subject areas. In the city of Copenhagen, discovery and treatment of dementia occur on three levels: (1) in general practice, (2) in local memory clinics headed by specialists in geriatrics, neurology and/or psychiatry, and (3) in the memory clinic at H:S Rigshospitalet. In 2000, the geriatric clinic at H:S Bispebjerg Hospital established a local memory clinic. The fact that the clinic was created within a basic speciality other than neurology, as at Rigshospitalet, made it necessary to carry out developmental work. A descriptive evaluation of 450 consecutive patient courses was performed. The patients were evaluated and treated in the memory unit in the period from 14 March 2001 to 31 December 2004. 330 (73%) of the 450 patients were women, and 120 (27%) were men. The median age was 84 years (range 64-97 years), and the median MMSE score was 24 (range 1-30) at first consultation in the memory unit. A cerebral CT was done on 339 patients (75%), and a SPECT scan was done on 6 patients (1%). 90 patients (20%) were evaluated by a gerontopsychiatrist during the treatment course, and 151 patients (34%) were evaluated by a neuropsychologist. A diagnosis of irreversible dementia was made for 322 patients (72%). Most of the patients referred had a MMSE score greater than 20, and even patients with very high MMSE scores may suffer from irreversible dementia. Compared with examinations in Danish memory clinics in the context of neurology, there was a higher number of patients with irreversible dementia. The difference may probably be explained by the average age difference between the patients referred. The threshold of referring for evaluation of cognitive dysfunction may be lower for younger patients than for older patients. The geriatric concept is an appropriate platform for evaluation and treatment of older patients with cognitive dysfunction before such patients are hospitalized on an emergency basis or break down socially. To carry out complete and qualified evaluation and treatment, it is essential to establish local and close cooperation with a gerontopsychiatrist, a neurologist and a neuropsychologist."}
{"id": "16758132", "title": "Brain perfusion effects of cholinesterase inhibitors in Parkinson's disease with dementia.", "content": "Brain perfusion effects of cholinesterase inhibitors in Parkinson's disease with dementia. Several evidences suggest that cholinergic deficits may significantly contribute to dementia in Parkinson's disease (PDD) and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) have been reported to improve cognitive symptoms in PDD, without worsening parkinsonism. Nineteen PDD patients underwent brain perfusion SPECT with (99m)Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer after 6 months ChEIs treatment in order to evaluate the functional correlates of clinical improvement. A clear-cut cognitive improvement was reported in PDD patients with a significant improvement of ADAS-cog total score as well as of subscores exploring executive functions (p<0.01). MMSE total score did not significantly change after ChEIs but the subscore of attention significantly improved after therapy (p<0.01). No difference in motor performance as evaluated by UPDRS was reported. SPM analysis showed a significant increase of perfusion (p < 0.0001) in bilateral cingulate, and frontal regions after ChEIs. Our data confirm the efficacy of ChEIs in the treatment of dementia associated with PD mainly on attention and executive functions, and the functional findings indicate that this cognitive improvement could be associated with a sort of pharmacological frontal \"re-afferentation\"."}
{"id": "16705474", "title": "Tau haplotype affects CSF Tau levels in frontotemporal dementia: implication for diagnostic purposes.", "content": "Tau haplotype affects CSF Tau levels in frontotemporal dementia: implication for diagnostic purposes."}
{"id": "16697429", "title": "Knowing 7 x 8, but not the meaning of 'elephant': evidence for the dissociation between numerical and non-numerical semantic knowledge.", "content": "Knowing 7 x 8, but not the meaning of 'elephant': evidence for the dissociation between numerical and non-numerical semantic knowledge. Patients affected by semantic dementia (SD) and other severe cognitive deficits may show preserved numerical skills, including the retrieval of multiplication facts from long-term memory. No studies so far specifically investigated the network of arithmetic facts in semantic dementia. Thus, it is unknown whether preserved multiplication in SD truly reflects intact semantic knowledge or preserved retrieval of verbal sequences (just as the recitation of rhymes or poems). In the present study a patient (SG) with SD underwent an extensive assessment of number processing and calculation abilities. In particular, multiplication knowledge was investigated through a series of computerised tasks (production task, multiple-choice task, number bisection task with multiplicative triplets, number-matching task). SG demonstrated excellent performance in all number processing and calculation tasks. In computerised tasks tapping multiplication fact knowledge, SG was as accurate and fast as healthy controls. Analyses on individual regression slopes indicated that SG's reaction time effects (problem-size effect, problem-difficulty effect, interference effects, and facilitation effect) were comparable to those found in controls in each task. These results add new evidence to the independence of numerical knowledge from other semantic information and provide further insight into the organisation of stored arithmetic knowledge."}
{"id": "16644047", "title": "Heterogeneity of posterior limbic perfusion in very early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Heterogeneity of posterior limbic perfusion in very early Alzheimer's disease. This study was designed to quantify the heterogeneity of cerebral perfusion on SPECT images in elderly controls and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients in mild stage using a three-dimensional fractal analysis (3D-FA). Seventy-five patients with possible and probable AD based on the NINCDS/ADRDA criteria, and thirty-one elderly controls underwent 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT scanning. Dementia severity was assessed using the clinical dementia rating (CDR). Patients with CDR scores of 0.5 (n=33) were classified as \"very early\" and those with CDR 1 (n=42) as \"early\". We delineated the SPECT images using 2 cutoffs (35% and 50% cutoffs of the maximal voxel radioactivity) and measured the number of voxels in the areas included by the contours obtained with each cutoff level. The fractal dimension (FD) was calculated by relating the logarithms of cutoff level and the number of voxels. Posterior limbic images were reconstructed at 30 degrees positive to the coronal plane, and posterior limbic FD was calculated. Posterior limbic FD for early AD, very early AD, and control groups were 1.03+/-0.16, 1.02+/-0.17, and 0.87+/-0.14 (P=0.001 versus early AD group, P=0.001 versus very early AD). Use of the posterior limbic FD and the ratio of posterior limbic FD to total FD separated very early AD patients from controls with a sensitivity of 76% and a specificity of 81%. 3D-FA indicated significant differences in the heterogeneity of CBF distribution between patients with AD in mild stage and elderly controls. Posterior limbic FD may be useful for easily and objectively distinguishing patients with very early AD from aging people."}
{"id": "16643314", "title": "Correlation of cognitive status, MRI- and SPECT-imaging in CADASIL patients.", "content": "Correlation of cognitive status, MRI- and SPECT-imaging in CADASIL patients. Although there is evidence for correlations between disability and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) total lesion volume in autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), the significance of structural MRI abnormalities for cognitive dysfunction remains controversial. We performed detailed neuropsychological testing, high resolution MRI, and Tc-99m-ethyl cysteinate-dimer SPECT in three CADASIL patients. MR-images were rated independently by two investigators for the presence of white matter lesions, lacunar infarcts, microbleeds, and ventricular enlargement. Cortical atrophy was quantified by the use of automatic morphometric assessment of the cortical thickness. In addition, laboratory and patients' history data were collected in order to assess the individual vascular risk factor profile. The differences in cognitive performance between the three patients are neither explained by structural-, or functional neuroimaging, nor by the patient-specific vascular risk factor profiles. The neuroradiologically least affected patient met criteria for dementia, whereas the most severely affected patient was in the best clinical and cognitive state. Conventional structural and functional neuroimaging is important for the diagnosis of CADASIL, but it is no sufficient surrogate marker for the associated cognitive decline. Detailed neuropsychological assessment seems to be more useful, particularly with respect to the implementation of reliable outcome parameters in possible therapeutic trials."}
{"id": "16639610", "title": "Partial volume effect correction in SPECT for striatal uptake measurements in patients with neurodegenerative diseases: impact upon patient classification.", "content": "Partial volume effect correction in SPECT for striatal uptake measurements in patients with neurodegenerative diseases: impact upon patient classification. In single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the dopaminergic system, measurements of striatal uptake are useful for diagnosis and patient follow-up but are strongly biased by the partial volume effect (PVE). We studied whether PVE correction might improve patient classification based on binding potential (BP) measurements. Patients with a probable diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB, 10 patients) or Alzheimer's disease (AD, 13 patients) were studied by( 123)I-FP-CIT SPECT. SPECT images were reconstructed with and without PVE correction. Each patient SPECT scan was also simulated to obtain SPECT data whose characteristics were fully known. In addition, 17 SPECT scans were simulated with striatal uptake values mimicking pre-symptomatic cases of DLB. Without PVE correction, mean putamen BP values were 2.9+/-0.4 and 0.9+/-0.2 for AD and DLB patients respectively, while with PVE correction, they were 8.6+/-1.5 and 1.9+/-0.5 respectively. All patients were properly identified as having AD or DLB when considering mean putamen BP measured on their real or simulated SPECT scan, with and without PVE correction. All 30 simulations mimicking pre-symptomatic DLB and AD patients were accurately classified with PVE correction, but without PVE correction 15 mean putamen BP values were in a range where AD and DLB could not be distinguished. We conclude that putamen BP values measured without PVE correction can be used to differentiate probable DLB and AD due to the already severe reduction in dopamine transporter levels. PVE correction appeared useful for accurate differential diagnosis between AD and pre-symptomatic DLB."}
{"id": "16636246", "title": "Annexin V SPECT imaging of phosphatidylserine expression in patients with dementia.", "content": "Annexin V SPECT imaging of phosphatidylserine expression in patients with dementia. The authors sought to use radiolabeled annexin V, a marker of phosphatidylserine expression, to image Alzheimer dementia (AD). Four of five patients with AD had multifocal cortical annexin V uptake, whereas all seven non-AD and six control patients had normal SPECT. The mean cortex/cerebellar activity in patients with AD (1.4 +/- 0.6) was higher than that of non-AD dementia patients (0.7 +/- 0.2; p = 0.02). Radiolabeled annexin V may be useful for imaging AD."}
{"id": "16634136", "title": "[Frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Frontotemporal dementia]."}
{"id": "16624585", "title": "Relationship between antisocial behavior and regional cerebral blood flow in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Relationship between antisocial behavior and regional cerebral blood flow in frontotemporal dementia. To examine the relationship between antisocial behaviors and reduction of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed in 22 patients with FTD and 76 age-matched healthy volunteers. The statistical analysis was conducted using the SPM99 software. The antisocial behavioral symptoms were assessed independently by three geriatric psychiatrists, who had not been given the information of the SPECT images. Compared with normal controls, FTD patients showed significant reduction of rCBF in the widespread frontal cortical areas. The correlation analysis showed that antisocial behavioral symptoms are associated with reduction of rCBF in the orbitofrontal cortex. The functional decline of orbitofrontal cortex is related to antisocial behavioral symptoms in patients with FTD."}
{"id": "16599280", "title": "Delusions in patients with very mild, mild and moderate Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Delusions in patients with very mild, mild and moderate Alzheimer's disease. To compare the prevalence of delusions in different stages in Taiwanese patients with very mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). A consecutive series of 91 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease visited the dementia clinic in a regional hospital in mid-Taiwan were enrolled in this study. All patients were examined with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI), and the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale. The prevalence rate of any delusion in very mild, mild and moderate AD was 35.2%. Delusions of other persons are stealing was most common (27.5%), followed by delusions of self is in danger (15.4%), house is not his/her home (5.5%), family plans to abandon him/her (4.4%), spouse is having an affair (2.2%), an unwelcome guest is living in the house (2.2%), media persons are in the house (2.2%), and others aren't who they claim (1.1%). The prevalence rates of delusions is 33% in very mild AD, 30% in mild AD and 48% in moderate AD. AD (P>0.05). Delusions are common neuropsychiatric symptoms in very early stage as well as in later stages of Taiwanese patients with AD and it deserves the attention that delusions may be characteristic of very mild AD."}
{"id": "16581032", "title": "Imaging in Parkinson's disease: the role of monoamines in behavior.", "content": "Imaging in Parkinson's disease: the role of monoamines in behavior. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can measure striatal dopamine (DA) terminal function in vivo as reflected by DA storage capacity and transporter binding. In Parkinson's disease (PD) posterior dorsal putamen DA terminals are initially targeted, the anterior putamen and head of caudate subsequently becoming affected. In contrast, dopaminergic function in pallidal, amygdala, and cingulate regions is upregulated in early PD and only later becomes reduced. Rigidity and bradykinesia in PD have been shown to correlate with loss of putamen dopaminergic function, whereas performance on executive and working memory tasks correlates with integrity of caudate dopaminergic terminals. 11C-RTI32 PET, a marker of noradrenergic and dopaminergic transporter binding, can be used to assess noradrenergic along with dopaminergic terminal function. Serotonergic transporter binding can be assessed with 11C-DASB PET and 123I-beta CIT SPECT, whereas HT1A binding can be measured with 11C-WAY100635 PET. With these modalities, the relationship between mood, noradrenergic and serotonergic function can be examined in PD. The functional effects of focal DA replacement on DA storage capacity and patterns of brain activation via implantation of fetal midbrain cells or glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) infusion into putamen of PD patients has been examined with PET. Both approaches lead to consistently increased levels of putamen 18F-dopa uptake, and cell implantation can restore levels of frontal activation. Clinical outcome, however, has proved to be variable and off-medication dyskinesias are an unwanted side effect in transplanted cases. Dopamine release after pharmacological challenges or during behavioral tasks can be assessed indirectly by studying changes in receptor availability to PET radioligands. Stereotyped sequential movements are associated with striatal DA release, and this increases with more complex behaviors and the presence of financial incentives, which also increase frontal DA levels. Parkinson patients release less putamen DA than healthy control subjects during stereotyped finger movements. Interestingly, those PD patients who develop a dopa dependency syndrome, craving their medication, generate significantly greater levels of ventral striatal DA compared with similarly disabled patients without such a psychological dependency. In the future, functional imaging is likely to throw light on the roles of peptide transmission in regulating mood and behavior as non-peptide analogue ligands become available. Novel markers of amyloid plaque load will also help clarify the etiology of dementia in PD."}
{"id": "16567718", "title": "Correlation of visual hallucinations with occipital rCBF changes by donepezil in DLB.", "content": "Correlation of visual hallucinations with occipital rCBF changes by donepezil in DLB. The authors explored the neural substrate of visual hallucinations in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) by investigating changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and psychiatric symptoms, before and after cholinesterase inhibitor treatment. Twenty subjects with DLB were treated with donepezil for a 12-week period. Hallucinations attenuated while receiving therapy, whereas occipital rCBF focally increased, suggesting that functional visual association cortex deficits may cause visual hallucinations in patients with DLB."}
{"id": "16551505", "title": "Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and brain perfusion imaging in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and brain perfusion imaging in Parkinson's disease. Few imaging studies investigated frontal dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease. We investigated relationships between Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and brain perfusion in patients with non-demented Parkinson's disease. Patients were divided into two groups according to WCST score: (1) CA (number of category achieved)<or=2 or (2) CA>or=3. We performed three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection and volume of interest analysis using (123)I-IMP scintigraphy. Hypoperfusions of the bilateral posterior cingulate, rostrodorsal prefrontal, and left frontopolar cortices were shown in CA<or=2 group, with the left cingulate and right rostrodorsal prefrontal cortices showing prominent hypoperfusion. CA and PE (perseverative errors) scores significantly correlated with perfusion of the left posterior cingulate cortex. PE score also correlated with perfusion of the right rostrodorsal prefrontal cortex. Data indicated participations of various regions in task achievement. Careful interpretation of WCST scores is required."}
{"id": "16548090", "title": "Long-term effect of low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over the unaffected posterior parietal cortex in patients with unilateral spatial neglect.", "content": "Long-term effect of low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over the unaffected posterior parietal cortex in patients with unilateral spatial neglect. To explore long-term effects on unilateral spatial neglect of low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the unaffected posterior parietal cortex. Uncontrolled pilot study. Two chronic-phase patients with left-sided unilateral spatial neglect from cerebral infarction. Six rTMS sessions were undertaken for 2 weeks. Each session included 900 stimuli applied over P5 at an intensity of 95% motor thresholds and a frequency of 0.9 Hz. The Behavioural Inattention Test, either the Mini-Mental State Examination or the Revised Hasegawa Dementia Scale, Brunnstrom Recovery Stage, and Barthel Index were evaluated at 2-week intervals until 6 weeks after rTMS sessions. Single-photon emission computed tomography was performed 2 weeks before and after rTMS. Behavioural Inattention Test scores improved remarkably, especially from 2 to 4 weeks after rTMS sessions. At 6 weeks, Behavioural Inattention Test scores still remained above pre-rTMS levels. Other clinical evaluations as well as single-photon emission computed tomography showed no significant change during the study. In this small pilot study, low-frequency rTMS over the unaffected posterior parietal cortex decreased unilateral spatial neglect for at least 6 weeks."}
{"id": "16538621", "title": "CADASIL presenting with a movement disorder: a clinical study of a Chilean kindred.", "content": "CADASIL presenting with a movement disorder: a clinical study of a Chilean kindred. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary vascular disease that usually begins with migraine, followed by repeated strokes and progressive dementia. We describe an unusual clinical presentation of this condition in members of a Chilean family with an established NOTCH3 mutation. We report early clinical, neuropsychological, transcranial ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral blood flow, and skin biopsy findings on these patients. Of the patients, 2 presented with facial dystonia, 1 of whom had abnormal single photon emission computed tomography and transcranial ultrasound studies after normal brain MRI scans. Our report emphasizes that CADASIL must be considered in the study of patients with secondary dystonia."}
{"id": "16528976", "title": "Brain SPECT analysis by 3D-SSP and clinical features of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Brain SPECT analysis by 3D-SSP and clinical features of Parkinson's disease. The aim of the present study is to investigate the association of symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) with cerebral perfusion on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The clinical features of PD were compared with SPECT images of the brain obtained by three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) analysis. Thirty-eight patients who had PD without dementia (17 men and 21 women with a mean age of 68.6 +/- 4.7 years) were enrolled in this study. Their symptoms were rated using the unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS). Within a week, all patients were examined by SPECT with 1-123, and reconstructed images were analyzed with 3D-SSP using an image-analysis software, iSSP ver. 3.5. Data on brain surface perfusion extracted by 3D-SSP analysis were compared between the PD patients and the normal control group. The same comparisons were made for subgroups of PD patients with severe symptoms, such as tremor, gait disturbance, bradykinesia, and the UPDRS motor score. Cerebral perfusion was decreased at the anterior cingulate cortex and occipital lobe of the PD patients compared with the normal controls. In the subgroups with severe gait disturbance and severe bradykinesia, additional hypoperfusion was seen at the lateral frontal association and lateral temporal association and the medial frontal gyrus, and by the pixel-by-pixel comparison, perfusion was significantly decreased (p < 0.05) at the medial frontal gyrus and anterior cingulate cortex compared with the normal control group. In PD patients, severe gait disturbance and bradykinesia may be correlated with hypoperfusion of the medial aspect of the frontal lobe. This suggests that functional disturbance of the supplementary motor area and other parts of the frontal lobe are involved in the development of gait disturbance and bradykinesia in PD."}
{"id": "16525077", "title": "Acquired extroversion associated with bitemporal variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Acquired extroversion associated with bitemporal variant of frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is characterized by alterations in personality. The nature of the personality changes depend on the localization of the pathology. The authors present three patients with acquired extroversion who met criteria for FTD. All three patients exhibited predominant bilateral temporal involvement as determined with functional neuroimaging. Possible mechanisms for acquired extroversion in bitemporal FTD include bilateral amygdalar damage with decreased interpersonal fear or sense of threat, orbitofrontal-ventromedial damage with social disinhibition, and relative sparing of dorsolateral frontal and anterior cingulate regions with preserved interpersonal agency. FTD can be a vehicle for unraveling the basis of personality characteristics such as the introversion/extroversion dimension."}
{"id": "16517512", "title": "'Non-semantic' aspects of language in semantic dementia: as normal as they're said to be?", "content": "'Non-semantic' aspects of language in semantic dementia: as normal as they're said to be? This article describes a 52-month longitudinal study of a patient, ILJ, whose semantic profile fits the criteria for a classical case of semantic dementia (SD). As in all such cases, it was the semantic aspects of receptive and expressive language processing--essentially vocabulary--that were most dramatically affected. The novel observation from this study is ILJ's performance on a comprehensive language examination. Results from this assessment, even early in the course of his disease, are compatible with the hypothesis that phonological, morphological and/or syntactic aspects of language processing may be disrupted by their interaction with degraded information from the semantic system."}
{"id": "16513606", "title": "Dual-tracer dopamine transporter and perfusion SPECT in differential diagnosis of parkinsonism using template-based discriminant analysis.", "content": "Dual-tracer dopamine transporter and perfusion SPECT in differential diagnosis of parkinsonism using template-based discriminant analysis. Clinical differential diagnosis in parkinsonism can be difficult especially at early stages. We investigated whether combined perfusion and dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging can aid in the differential diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders: idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy (MSA), dementia with Lewy bodies (LBD), and essential tremor (ET). One hundred twenty-nine patients were studied, retrospectively (69 males; 24 MSA, 12 PSP, 8 LBD, 27 ET, and 58 IPD; mean disease duration, 3.5 +/- 3.7 y). Diagnosis was based on established clinical criteria after follow-up of 5.5 +/- 3.8 y in a university specialist movement disorders clinic. Group characterization was done using a categoric voxel-based design and, second, a predefined volume-of-interest approach along Brodmann areas (BA) and subcortical structures, including striatal asymmetry and anteroposterior indices. Stepwise forward discriminant analysis was performed with cross-validation (CV) using the leave-one-out technique. Characteristic patterns for perfusion and DAT were found for all pathologies. In the parkinson-plus group, MSA, PSP, and LBD could be discriminated in 100% (+CV) of the cases. When including IPD, discrimination accuracy was 82.4% (99% without CV). 2beta-Carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane imaging as a single technique was able to discriminate between ET and neurodegenerative forms with an accuracy of 93.0% (+CV); inclusion of perfusion information augmented this slightly to 97.4% (+CV). Dual-tracer DAT and perfusion SPECT in combination with discrimination analysis allows an automated, accurate differentiation between the most common forms of parkinsonism in a clinically relevant setting."}
{"id": "16505304", "title": "Variations in regional SPECT hypoperfusion and clinical features in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Variations in regional SPECT hypoperfusion and clinical features in frontotemporal dementia. To characterize the presenting clinical features for frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and contrast them with the degree of frontal and temporal hypoperfusion on SPECT imaging. The authors evaluated 74 patients who eventually met Consensus Criteria for the FTD form of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (excluding primary progressive aphasia and semantic dementia) on 2-year follow-up. On first presentation, these patients had undergone both an FTD Inventory for 12 features based on core and supportive Consensus Criteria and SPECT imaging. The initial clinical diagnostic features were contrasted with variations in regional SPECT hypoperfusion. The patients with FTD had more hypoperfusion in the right frontal lobe than in other regions; the subgroup of 25 patients who met Consensus Criteria from the first presentation had the most right frontal hypoperfusion. Frontal lobe involvement was associated with significant apathy, whereas temporal lobe involvement was associated with hypomania-like behavior. Right frontal lobe hypoperfusion further predicted loss of insight, environmental dependency, and stereotyped behaviors. Other associations included left frontal hypoperfusion with a decline in personal hygiene and left temporal hypoperfusion with compulsions and mental rigidity. On first presentation, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is disproportionately a right frontal disease evident on behavioral measures and on SPECT. Nonetheless, patients with FTD can initially present with further regional differences in clinical diagnostic features, such as apathy with bifrontal hypoperfusion and hypomania-like behaviors with anterior temporal involvement."}
{"id": "16482919", "title": "[Correlation of the cognitive function and the duration of the illness with the regional cerebral blood flow in the patients with Parkinson's disease: objective evaluation using stereotactic extraction estimation analysis in 123I-IMP SPECT].", "content": "[Correlation of the cognitive function and the duration of the illness with the regional cerebral blood flow in the patients with Parkinson's disease: objective evaluation using stereotactic extraction estimation analysis in 123I-IMP SPECT]. To investigate the correlation of the cognitive function and the duration of the illness with the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), by means of an objective diagnostic index of brain imaging, stereotactic extraction estimation (SEE) of 123I-IMP SPECT. We examined 123I-IMP SPECT in 24 patients with PD (age = 71.79 +/- 5.18 years; the Mini-Mental State Examination: MMSE score = 21.46 +/- 7.62 points; the duration of the illness = 6.63 +/- 3.91 years; Yahr scale = 3.29 +/- 0.74). A contrast database was created by averaging extracted database sets of the contrast group (numbers = 14 cases; age = 74.64 +/- 5.99 years, the MMSE score > or = 29 points). We applied SEE for Z-score images of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection analysis (3D-SSP) for 123I-IMP SPECT, and calculated Z*extent ratio by taking advantage of severity of Z-score (the mean value) with extent ratio (%) in the frontal, occipital, temporal, parietal and posterior cingulate cortices, and precuneus, respectively. We investigated the correlation coefficient between the MMSE score and Z*extent ratio, and between the duration of the illness and Z*extent ratio in the six regions. In addition, we compared Z*extent ratio in the six regions between the non-demented group (numbers = 12 patients; MMSE > or = 24 points) and the demented group (numbers =12 patients; E score < or = 23 points). There were negative correlations between the MMSE score and Z*extent ratio in the temporal (p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate cortices (p < 0.05), and positive correlations between the duration of the illness and Z*extent ratio in the frontal (p < 0.01), temporal (p < 0.01), parietal (p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate cortices (p < 0.01). Z*extent ratio was significantly high only in the posterior cingulate cortex(p < 0.05) in the demented group. SEE for Z-score images of 3D-SSP revealed a close relationship between the decline of the MMSE score and the duration of the illness, and the perfusion reduction of the posterior cingulate cortex in patients with PD. These findings suggest that the perfusion reduction of the posterior cingulate cortex reflects the decline of cognitive impairment of patients with PD."}
{"id": "16477583", "title": "Validation of the Spanish version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination in a rural community in Spain.", "content": "Validation of the Spanish version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination in a rural community in Spain. The Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination (ACE) is a brief cognitive test battery designed to detect and differentiate Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Translations of this instrument into French and Malayalam have been recently published To adapt and validate the ACE into Spanish in a rural population of low-educational level. A clinical group, composed of 70 patients affected by dementia and 25 patients with memory complaints without dementia, was compared with 72 controls matched for gender, age and educational level The clinical group was studied with standard neuropsychological instruments, all patients underwent neuroimaging [Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Single Photon Emission Tomography (SPECT) in all cases of suspected FTD], as well as routine neurological examination. Both groups were studied with the ACE and Clinical Dementia Rating scale (CDR). Sensitivity, specificity, area under curve, reliability and Verbal-Language/ Orientation-Memory (VLOM) ratio were calculated. Subsequently, the sample was stratified regarding educational level in two groups. Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves were calculated for these conditions. Different cut-off points were calculated addressing educational level. ROC curves demonstrated the superiority of the ACE in the sub sample of patients that finished school at over 14 years old. VLOM ratio confirmed its usefulness for differential diagnosis between AD and FTD CONCLUSIONS: The Spanish version of the ACE is a useful instrument for dementia diagnosis. In our sample VLOM ratio results were useful for differential diagnosis between AD and FTD. Different cut-off points must be used for different educational levels."}
{"id": "16435412", "title": "[70-year-old woman with depressive symptoms and personality change].", "content": "[70-year-old woman with depressive symptoms and personality change]. A seventy-year-old woman, formerly healthy and active, gradually changed and withdrew from social contact. She was admitted to a psychogeriatric ward with depressive symptoms, delusions and change of personality. We treated the condition as a depressive psychosis, but with little success. She was mentally rigid, withdrawn, behaved inappropriately and did not cooperate in the treatment. After months of gradual worsening we suspected frontotemporal dementia. Cognitive testing showed abnormal scores in tasks of executive functions but no major memory or language problems. Computerised tomography was negative. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) showed marked hypoperfusion especially in the frontal lobes and with the lowest function on the left side. The investigations thus supported the diagnosis. All medication was tapered and she moved to a dementia care unit in her community. The case illustrates some of the diagnostic challenges in psychogeriatric medicine. Early frontotemporal dementia may easily be mistaken for depression, especially when apathy and withdrawal is dominant (apathetic/pseudodepressive subtype) and not disinhibition and inappropriate behaviour (disinhibited subtype)."}
{"id": "16374823", "title": "Widespread decrease of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Widespread decrease of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in Parkinson's disease. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have close interactions with the dopaminergic system and play critical roles in cognitive function. The purpose of this study was to compare these receptors between living PD patients and healthy subjects. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors were imaged in 10 nondemented Parkinson's disease patients and 15 age-matched healthy subjects using a single-photon emission computed tomography ligand [(123)I]5-iodo-3-[2(S)-2-azetidinylmethoxy]pyridine. Using an arterial input function, we measured the total distribution volume (V; specific plus nondisplaceable), as well as the delivery (K(1)). Parkinson's disease showed a widespread significant decrease (approximately 10%) of V in both cortical and subcortical regions without a significant change in K(1). These results indicate the importance of extending the study to demented patients."}
{"id": "16361025", "title": "The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The correct diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is important for prognostic and therapeutic reasons and is essential for clinical research. Investigations of the diagnostic accuracy for the disease and other forms of parkinsonism in community-based samples of patients taking antiparkinsonian medication confirmed a diagnosis of parkinsonism in only 74% of patients and clinically probable Parkinson's disease in 53% of patients. Clinicopathological studies based on brain bank material from the UK and Canada have shown that clinicians diagnose the disease incorrectly in about 25% of patients. In these studies, the most common reasons for misdiagnosis were presence of essential tremor, vascular parkinsonism, and atypical parkinsonian syndromes. Infrequent diagnostic errors included Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and drug-induced parkinsonism. Increasing knowledge of the heterogeneous clinical presentation of the various parkinsonisms has resulted in improved diagnostic accuracy of the various parkinsonian syndromes in specialised movement-disorder units. Also genetic testing and various other ancillary tests, such as olfactory testing, MRI, and dopamine-transporter single-photon-emission computed-tomography imaging, help with clinical diagnostic decisions."}
{"id": "16356633", "title": "HIV-1 Tat neurotoxicity in primary cultures of rat midbrain fetal neurons: changes in dopamine transporter binding and immunoreactivity.", "content": "HIV-1 Tat neurotoxicity in primary cultures of rat midbrain fetal neurons: changes in dopamine transporter binding and immunoreactivity. HIV-1 neurotoxic proteins (Tat, gp120) are believed to play a major role in pathogenesis of dementia in a significant portion of the AIDS patient population. Dopaminergic systems appear to be particularly important in HIV-associated dementia. In the current studies, we determined that primary cell cultures prepared from the midbrain of 18-day-old rat fetuses are sensitive to Tat neurotoxicity and investigated the possible effects of Tat on DAT-specific ligand binding and DAT immunoreactivity in rat fetal midbrain cultures. We found that Tat neurotoxicity was associated with a significant decrease in [3H]WIN 35428 binding. Immunostaining of cell cultures with antibodies recognizing the C-end epitope of DAT did not reveal significant changes in DAT immunoreactivity. The results of this study implicate involvement of monoamine transmission systems in HIV-associated dementia."}
{"id": "16352310", "title": "Brain SPECT analysis by 3D-SSP and phenotype of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Brain SPECT analysis by 3D-SSP and phenotype of Parkinson's disease. We hypothesize that the regional pattern of blood flow reduction in the brain is different between tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease (PD) and postural instability gait difficulty (PIGD)-dominant PD. We therefore investigated the association of phenotypes in untreated PD with brain perfusion on SPECT using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) technique. Thirty-three patients who had PD without dementia (12 men and 21 women with a mean age of 67.1+/-6.4 years) were included in this study. Their symptoms were rated using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). Patients were grouped in two phenotypes: tremor and PIGD-dominant groups based on UPDRS components. Around the same time, all patients were examined by N-isopropyl-p[123I] iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography (123I-IMP SPECT), and obtained images were analyzed with 3D-SSP using an image-analysis software, NEUROSTAT. Data on brain surface perfusion extracted by 3D-SSP analysis were compared between the PD patients and the normal control group. The same comparisons were made for subgroups of PD patients. Cerebral perfusion was decreased at the anterior cingulate cortex and primary visual cortex of the PD patients, and especially by the pixel-by-pixel comparison, perfusion was significantly decreased at the right anterior cingulate cortex compared with the normal controls. In the PIGD-dominant group, more severe hypoperfusion was seen at the same regions. In the tremor-dominant group, significant hypoperfusion was not seen compared with the normal controls. The regional pattern of blood flow reduction in the brain was found to be different between tremor-dominant PD and PIGD-dominant PD. These regional differences were considered to suggest different and disease-specific combinations of underlying pathophysiological and neurochemical processes."}
{"id": "16340203", "title": "Initial symptoms in frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia compared with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Initial symptoms in frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia compared with Alzheimer's disease. Despite many reports about cognitive decline and behavioral changes in patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), there have been very few systematic studies of initial symptoms of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and semantic dementia (SD). It was the aim of this study to investigate FTD and SD and to establish whether they are characterized by different initial symptoms. Three groups of patients were studied: FTD (n = 36), SD (n = 17) and age-matched Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (n = 52). Information on initial symptoms was obtained from caregivers. Symptoms were classified into 22 distinct categories from the following domains, based on previous studies of symptoms of FTLD: (1) change in social behavior, affection, and daily activities, (2) cognitive decline, (3) language impairments, and (4) other abnormal symptoms. Change in social behavior, affection, and daily activities was significantly more common in patients with FTD; on the other hand, language impairments were significantly more common in patients with SD as initial symptoms. Apathy and stereotypic behaviors were the most common initial symptoms among patients with FTD, while anomia, paraphasia, and impairment in word comprehension were the most common initial symptoms among patients with SD. Memory disturbance was the most common initial symptom among patients with AD. Behavioral and psychiatric symptoms are predominant initial symptoms in FTD, while language symptoms are predominant initial symptoms in SD. In addition to the assessment of current symptoms, the assessment of initial symptoms is useful for differential diagnosis in patients with FTD, SD and AD.."}
{"id": "16328506", "title": "Comparative value of brain perfusion SPECT and [(123)I]MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in distinguishing between dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparative value of brain perfusion SPECT and [(123)I]MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in distinguishing between dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease. Both decreased occipital perfusion on brain single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and reduction in cardiac (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) uptake are characteristic features of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and potentially support the clinical diagnosis of DLB. The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic value of these two methods for differentiation of DLB from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study population comprised 19 patients with probable DLB and 39 patients with probable AD who underwent both SPECT with N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine and MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. Objective and quantitative measurement of perfusion in the medial occipital lobe, including the cuneus and lingual gyrus, was performed by the use of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections. Medial occipital perfusion was significantly decreased in the DLB group compared with the AD group. The mean heart/mediastinum ratios of MIBG uptake were significantly lower in the DLB group than in the AD group. Although SPECT failed to demonstrate significant hypoperfusion in the medial occipital lobe in five patients with DLB, marked reduction of MIBG uptake was found in all patients with DLB. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that MIBG myocardial scintigraphy enabled more accurate discrimination between DLB and AD than was possible with perfusion SPECT. MIBG myocardial scintigraphy may improve the sensitivity in the detection of DLB. In particular, this method may provide a powerful differential diagnostic tool when it is difficult to distinguish cases of DLB from AD using brain perfusion SPECT."}
{"id": "16328504", "title": "From the heart to the brain via cardiac MIBG imaging.", "content": "From the heart to the brain via cardiac MIBG imaging."}
{"id": "16325958", "title": "Clinical analysis of cognitive function in diabetic patients by MMSE and SPECT.", "content": "Clinical analysis of cognitive function in diabetic patients by MMSE and SPECT. We examined the frequency of cognitive impairment using the mini-mental-status examination (MMSE), as well as cerebral perfusion using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in elderly diabetic patients. Written consent was obtained from all patients prior to their inclusion in this study. An MMSE score of 26 or less was adopted as an indication of cognitive impairment. Following an initial study, a 3-month study incorporating the use of MMSE and SPECT was performed in subjects, some of whom were taking donepezil hydrochloride. Of the 92 subjects enrolled in this study, 38% exhibited cognitive functional impairment and 18% earned MMSE scores of 23 or lower that were indicative of dementia. With regard to their cerebral blood flow pattern as determined by SPECT 217, 31.4 and 34.2% of subjects showed parieto-temporal hypoperfusion, asymmetrical hypoperfusion and fronto-temporal hypoperfusion patterns of abnormalities, respectively; 11.4% displayed unclassifiable findings and 8.5% showed no detectable abnormalities. No significant differences were seen in patients that were taking donepezil hydrochloride compared to those who were not. The incidence of cognitive functional impairment in elderly, diabetic patients was significantly elevated and was accompanied by a reduction in cerebral blood flow in the fronto-temporal region, as determined by SPECT."}
{"id": "16298237", "title": "Combined 99mTc-ECD SPECT and neuropsychological studies in MCI for the assessment of conversion to AD.", "content": "Combined 99mTc-ECD SPECT and neuropsychological studies in MCI for the assessment of conversion to AD. Identifying pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a major issue in clinical diagnosis. Establishing a combination of predictive markers from different fields of research might help in increasing the diagnostic accuracy. Aim of this study was to evaluate the potential role of 99mTc-ECD single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and memory scores in predicting conversion to AD in MCI subjects. Thirty-one MCI subjects underwent a clinical and neuropsychological examination, and a regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) SPECT scan at baseline. Subjects had been followed periodically through 2 years in order to monitor the progression of cognitive symptoms. Canonical variate analysis of principal components was able to separate all subjects who converted to AD from those who remained stable, the former being characterized by a specific hypometabolic pattern, involving the parietal and temporal lobes, precuneus, and posterior cingulate cortex. Canonical correlation analysis of combined baseline memory deficits and rCBF SPECT images identified pre-clinical AD with a sensitivity and specificity of 77.8%. The pattern of hypoperfusion 99mTc-ECD SPECT and the severity of memory deficits predict the risk of progression to probable AD dementia in MCI subjects."}
{"id": "16237680", "title": "Estrogen attenuates gp120- and tat1-72-induced oxidative stress and prevents loss of dopamine transporter function.", "content": "Estrogen attenuates gp120- and tat1-72-induced oxidative stress and prevents loss of dopamine transporter function. Postmenopausal women who are infected with HIV are at risk for experiencing dementia and Parkinson's-like symptoms associated with low levels of estrogen. Neurotoxic damage leading to these symptoms may involve HIV-associated proteins gp120 and/or tat(1-72) (tat). Our hypothesis is that 17beta-Estradiol (E(2)) is an effective agent for protection against gp120/tat-induced damage associated with increased oxidative stress, with particular focus on peroxynitrite-induced oxidative stress. We used SK-N-SH cells and striatal synaptosomes from Sprague-Dawley rats as model systems to assess neuroprotection by E(2). Cells coincubated with SIN-1(3-morpholinosydnonimine) or tat and gp120, together or separately, significantly increased oxidative stress on the SK-N-SH cells, as indicated by the increase in the levels of dichlorofluorescein (DCFH) fluorescence. These data suggest that a component of tat and gp120 neurotoxicity may be due to increased oxidative stress. Coincubation with E(2) attenuated tat- and gp120-induced increase in fluorescence. Coincubation with progesterone had no effect on tat-induced fluorescence, whereas coincubation with the E(2) antagonist ICI 182,780 and E(2) completely prevented the effects observed with E(2) alone. Both gp120 and tat decreased [(3)H] dopamine uptake into striatal synaptosomes by decreasing the V(max) of the dopamine transporter (DAT). Pretreatment of synaptosomes with E(2) (100 nM) partially reversed this reduction. In conclusion, E(2) appears to be effective for preventing the oxidative stress and loss of DAT function associated with gp120/tat neurotoxicity."}
{"id": "16205876", "title": "[The clinical syndrome of posterior cortical atrophy].", "content": "[The clinical syndrome of posterior cortical atrophy]. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is a syndrome that involves distinct neuropsychological deficits. This paper presents the clinical and neuropsychological findings recorded in four patients with PCA and reviews the characteristics of the syndrome and other conditions that need to be considered in the differential diagnosis. The cardinal symptoms of PCA are deficits of higher visual and spatial functions (mostly taking the form of Balint's syndrome), variably associated with disorders of visual perception, topographical disorientation, visual object agnosia and prosopagnosia, and deficits affecting reading, copying, drawing, and calculation. PCA is mostly associated with histopathological changes similar to those found in dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT), which are located predominantly in posterior brain regions. Memory and language functions tend to be preserved better and for a longer time in PCA than in the normal variant of DAT. SPECT and PET show deficits of perfusion and metabolism in both parietal and occipital lobes. The diagnosis of PCA is based on neuropsychological and imaging findings."}
{"id": "16043457", "title": "Functional neuroimaging and presenting psychiatric features in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Functional neuroimaging and presenting psychiatric features in frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a behavioural syndrome caused by degeneration of the frontal and anterior temporal lobes. Behavioural disturbances include psychiatric features. Whether patients with FTD present with psychiatric features varies with the initial neuroanatomical variability of FTD. To identify presenting psychiatric changes not part of diagnostic criteria of FTD and contrast them with the degree of hemispheric asymmetry and frontal and temporal hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. 74 patients who met consensus criteria for FTD were evaluated at a two year follow up. All had brain SPECT on initial presentation. Results of an FTD psychiatric checklist were contrasted with ratings of regional hypoperfusion. The regions of predominant hypoperfusion did not correlate with differences on FTD demographic variables but were associated with presenting psychiatric features. Dysthymia and anxiety were associated with right temporal hypoperfusion. \"Moria\" or frivolous behaviour also occurred with temporal lobe changes, especially on the right. The only significant frontal lobe feature was the presence of a peculiar physical bearing in association with right frontal hypoperfusion. Patients with FTD may present with psychiatric changes distinct from the behavioural diagnostic criteria for this disorder. Early temporal involvement is associated with frivolous behaviour and right temporal involvement is associated with emotional disturbances. In contrast, those with right frontal disease may present with alterations in non-verbal behaviour."}
{"id": "15959843", "title": "Brain perfusion SPECT in patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: comparison of a semiquantitative and a visual evaluation.", "content": "Brain perfusion SPECT in patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: comparison of a semiquantitative and a visual evaluation. Due to the increasing importance of early recognition and differential diagnosis of dementias, cerebral perfusion scans using \"single photon emission computed tomography\" (SPECT) are increasingly integrated into the examination routine. The goal of this study was to check the diagnostic validity of SPECT scans of MCI- and DAT-patients, two subgroups out of 369 persons with etiologically unclear cognitive dysfunction, which underwent an assessment program for probable dementia including cognitive testing, cranial computed tomography, ultrasound, routine laboratory testing including vascular risk factors. After exclusion of patients with no or other forms of dementia we analyzed SPECT data of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 85) and dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT; n = 78) in comparison with a healthy control group (n = 34).Visual assessment as well as a manual \"regions of interest\" (ROI) regionalization of the cortex were performed, whereby a ROI/cerebellum ratio was calculated as a semi-quantitative value. Association cortex areas were assessed regarding frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes of both hemispheres. When comparing the ratios of patients with DAT and controls, we found a statistically significant reduction of the cerebral perfusion in all measured cortex areas (p < 0.001). The comparison of patients with MCI with the selected control group also established a statistically significant difference in the cerebral perfusion for the evaluated cortex areas with the exception of the left hemispheric frontal and parietal cortex.A considerable number of the MCI patients showed an MMSE-score within the normal range, but with regard to the perfusion in the right hemispheric association cortex these patients also could be distinguished unambiguously from controls. Sensitivity levels found by visual assessment were at least as high as those found by the ROI method (pathological assessment: visual 49.4% vs. ROI 47.1% for MCI; visual 75.6% vs. ROI 73.1% for DAT). High experienced visual assessment of cerebral perfusion scans using SPECT provides an useful additional tool in diagnosis of cognitive impairment. The used semiquantitative ROI-method is nearly equivalent and does not depend on the experience of the investigator."}
{"id": "15936044", "title": "Number processing in posterior cortical atrophy--a neuropsycholgical case study.", "content": "Number processing in posterior cortical atrophy--a neuropsycholgical case study. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is an uncommon syndrome of dementia with early onset, characterised by disorders of higher visual function, variable symptoms of Balint's syndrome, visual agnosia, alexia, agraphia, finger agnosia, right-left disorientation and dyscalculia [Benson D. F., Davis R. J., & Snyder B. D. (1988). Posterior cortical atrophy. Archives of Neurology, 45, 789-793]. In a single case study specific numerical deficits were observed which may be predicted by parietal neurodegeneration (more pronounced on the right side; verified by SPECT). Besides impairments in all tasks involving visuo-spatial abilities (e.g., dot counting, analog number scale task), deficits appeared in tasks requiring access to an internal representation of numbers such as mental number bisection, approximation, estimation and semantic facts. In number comparison an increased distance effect was found. In simple arithmetic, a striking dissociation between operations was found-multiplication and addition facts being preserved at a superficial level, subtraction and division being severely impaired. The study confirms the close relation between spatial and numerical processing and highlights the modular organisation of the semantic system (number semantics impaired). Moreover, the study adds evidence about the clinical manifestation of the particular degenerative syndrome."}
{"id": "16408518", "title": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration that progressed from primary progressive aphasia].", "content": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration that progressed from primary progressive aphasia]. A 65-year-old woman began to experience slowly progressive speech disturbance from 2001. She was admitted to our hospital for examination on May 2003. She had dysprosody, paragraphia, and mild disturbance in comprehension of spoken language. Repetition was preserved. No clear paraphasia was found. Calculation was disturbed, but there were no other neurological abnormalities including apraxia and agnosia. Brain MRI showed atrophy of the left frontal and parietal lobes. 99mTc-ECD SPECT showed decreased blood flow in the left frontal lobe and parietal lobe, especially in the Broca area and supplemental motor cortex. Primary progressive aphasia was diagnosed, because aphasia lasted for 2 years without other neurological deficits, and her daily activity was well preserved. During follow up, facial apraxia appeared from December 2003, and limb apraxia appeared from May 2004, followed by rigidity predominantly in the right upper limb and dementia. She was diagnosed as having corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The second SPECT on December 2004 showed progression of the decrease in cerebral flow at the same area showed by the first SPECT. SPECT is useful examination to predict the progress of the disease because the decrease of blood flow was recognized before the progression to CBD."}
{"id": "16405264", "title": "[Autoimmune thyroid disease and brain].", "content": "[Autoimmune thyroid disease and brain]. Changes of the affective and cognitive function are usually associated with thyroid gland dysfunction. In autoimmune thyroid disease, these changes can be caused by thyroid dysfunction (hypo- or hyperthyroidism) or associated with the presence of antithyroid antibodies. Even a small change in thyroid hormone concentration is associated with change of cognitive function. In euthyroid older males, variation of total and free thyroxin accounts for about 10% of Wechsler adult intelligence test variance. In euthyroid females, lower cognitive function, measured by Mini Mental test, also correlates with blood thyroxin. Short-term (4 weeks) hypothyroidism induces clinically significant cognitivedysfunction, which is reversible by thyroid hormone substitution. Mild hypothyroidism (TSH less than 10) also induces reversible cognitive dysfunction. In hypothyroidism, PET scanning shows global reduction of brain blood flow and glucose metabolism. Hashimoto's encephalopathy is characterized by corticosteroid reversible encephalopathy associated with the presence of antithyroid antibodies. Encephalopathy can be manifested as multiple stroke-like episodes (vasculitis like), or as diffuse, progressive type characterized by dementia and psychiatric symptoms. In euthyroid patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and no evidence of neurological disease, SPECT showed brain perfusion abnormalities. Post mortem and brain biopsy findings can be normal or show perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. Recently, presence of antineuronal antibodies has been found in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Specific high reactivity against human alpha-enolase was high in patients with Hashimoto's encephalopathy, but absent in patients with other neurological disorders and healthy subjects. Specific antineural antibodies were found in another group of Hashimoto's encephalopathy patients. Furthermore, Ferracci et al, found antithyroid antibodies in the CSF of patients with Hashimoto's encephalopathy."}
{"id": "16401256", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia complicated with schizophrenia.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia complicated with schizophrenia."}
{"id": "16400422", "title": "[Frontotemporal dementia non familial and generalized epilepsy].", "content": "[Frontotemporal dementia non familial and generalized epilepsy]. A 62 year-old patient is presented, without family antecedents of dementia who begins with 45 years of age with sudden crisis of dyspnea, blurred vision, fall to the floor and repetitive jerks of arms. Tried by epilepsy with phenytoin and valproate repeats similar crisis sporadically. Four years ago their relatives began to notice changes of personality, irritability and obsessive behaviors. Later on, are added episodes of disorientation of days of duration, some with auditory hallucinations and also convulsive manifestations. Finally appear polymorphic crisis, some with continue alteration of consciousness, catatonic states and sphincteric incontinence. Physical and neurological examination without abnormalities. Neuropsychological evaluation evidenced consistent defects in frontal functions. EEG showed widespread slowness and sporadic irritative activity in frontotemporal regions. Anterior cortical atrophy in CT scan and bilateral frontotemporal hypoperfusion in SPECT. Labs exams and CSF were normal. The association of FTD and epilepsy, in non-family form, suggests a different neurodegenerative cortical syndrome."}
{"id": "16390030", "title": "[The contribution of nuclear medicine procedures in the diagnosis of dementia of Alzheimer's type. Imaging beta amyloid plaques].", "content": "[The contribution of nuclear medicine procedures in the diagnosis of dementia of Alzheimer's type. Imaging beta amyloid plaques]. Pathogenesis of dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) is unknown. Progressive deposition of beta-amyloid plaques (beta-AlphaPs) is one of the major pathological features of DAT and precedes cognitive decline in these patients. Noninvasive detection of beta-AlphaPs could, therefore, may be a potential diagnostic test for the early detection of DAT patients. A series of derivatives that achieve high binding affinity for beta amyloid fibrils both for PET and SPET studies have been developed for imaging AlphaPs in the living human brain. Lesions at the very early but also at late stages of the disease can also be identified by nuclear medicine techniques."}
{"id": "16355355", "title": "[Validity of the Spanish version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination for the diagnosis of dementia and to differentiate Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Validity of the Spanish version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination for the diagnosis of dementia and to differentiate Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia]. The Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination (ACE) is a brief bedside test battery to detect mild dementia and differentiate frontotemporal dementia (FTD) from Alzheimer's disease (AD). To validate the ACE in Spanish. The study evaluated the Spanish version of ACE on 128 subjects consisting in two groups a patient group (n = 76) and a control subjects group (n = 52). The patient group was divided in AD (n = 54) based on the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and FTD (n = 22) based on the Lund y Manchester criteria. All patients underwent clinical, neuropsychological, radiologic (MRI, CT, and SPECT), and laboratory evaluations. Group's differences were evaluated using ANOVA. The internal consistency of the Spanish version of the ACE was measured using the Cronbach's alpha coefficient. The discriminative capability of the Spanish version of the ACE was examined by the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The cut-off score of 86 showed a sensitivity of 92% (CI 95% = 83.6-97.0) and a specificity of 96.2% (CI 95% = 86.8-99.4). The ROC curve showed higher sensitivity and specificity of the ACE than the Mini-Mental State Examination in discriminating the dementia and control group. The VLOM ratio (verbal fluency + language)/(orientation + memory) of < 1.82 discriminated for FTD and > 4.87 discriminated for AD. The Spanish version of ACE is a brief and reliable instrument for early detection of dementia in highly educated people and offers a simple objective index to differentiate AD and FTD. More studies in less educated people are warranted."}
{"id": "16340650", "title": "PET and SPECT in drug and substance abuse.", "content": "PET and SPECT in drug and substance abuse. The use of imaging in the evaluation of the brain under the influence of drugs has evolved into a functional assessment of its processes. It has been shown that SPECT and PET imaging studies demonstrate selected areas that are affected by multiple drugs among substance abusers. This paper illustrates examples of different drugs and how their effect on the brain may be portrayed by imaging applications. The developing \"road maps\" that we have obtained possess multidimensional applications. They can be useful to confirm specific diseases, clarify diagnosis wherein the clinical picture is not observed, aid in the development of new treatment evaluations and also provide researchers a better insight in the detection and functionality of dementia and specific mental illnesses processes."}
{"id": "16340391", "title": "An investigation of moral judgement in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "An investigation of moral judgement in frontotemporal dementia. To investigate the basis of disturbed moral judgment in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FTD is characterized by difficulty in modulating social behavior. Patients lack social propriety and may perform sociopathic acts. In addition, FTD patients often lack empathy for others. These findings suggest alterations in the nature of morality in patients with FTD. We administered an inventory of moral knowledge and two moral dilemmas to 26 patients with the frontal variant of FTD, 26 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), and 26 normal control subjects. The FTD patients met Consensus Criteria for FTD and had corroborative frontal abnormalities on functional neuroimaging. The FTD and AD patients were comparably impaired on dementia measures. All these groups showed the retention of knowledge for moral behavior and the ability to make \"impersonal\" moral judgments. In contrast, the FTD patients were impaired in their ability to make immediate, emotionally based moral judgments compared with the patients with AD and the normal control subjects. These findings are consistent with an attenuation of the automatic emotional identification with others that is part of the innate moral sense. Such a disturbance may result from neurodegenerative disease affecting the ventromedial frontal cortex."}
{"id": "16327347", "title": "Convergence of connected language and SPECT in variants of frontotemporal lobar degeneration.", "content": "Convergence of connected language and SPECT in variants of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The characterization of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is complicated and not widely recognized. Connected language measures (ie, discourse) and functional neuroimaging may advance knowledge specifying early distinctions among frontal dementias. The present study examined the correspondence of discourse measures with (1) clinical diagnosis and (2) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. Nineteen subjects were selected from Alzheimer's Disease Center (ADC) participants if they were diagnosed with early-stage frontotemporal lobar degeneration and also underwent single photon emission computed tomography and discourse evaluation. First, clinical diagnoses given by specialists at an Alzheimer's Disease Center were compared with the discourse-based diagnostic profiles. Secondly, compromised brain regions that were predicted from discourse profiles were compared with SPECT findings. Results revealed a significant correspondence between the ADC diagnosis and the discourse-based diagnoses. Also, the discourse profiles across frontotemporal lobar degeneration subtypes were consistently associated with distinctive patterns of SPECT hypometabolism in the right frontal, left frontal, or left temporal lobes. These findings suggest that discourse methods may be systematized to provide an efficient adjunct measure beyond the traditional word and sentential level measures. Objectifying complex language performance may contribute to early detection and differentiation among frontotemporal lobar degeneration variants because consensus in the literature states that language is a core disturbance of frontotemporal lobar degeneration."}
{"id": "16293914", "title": "N-isopropyl-p- 123I iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography study of Parkinson's disease with dementia.", "content": "N-isopropyl-p- 123I iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography study of Parkinson's disease with dementia. Intellectual deterioration occurs in 10-40% of patients with Parkinson's disease. However, there are many conflicting studies on its relation with brain perfusion and the nature of this dementing process remains controversial. To compare cortical perfusion by SPECT using (123)I-IMP between Parkinson's disease patients with dementia and those without dementia and to investigate the correlation between dementia in Parkinson's disease and brain perfusion in various areas. Fifty-two cases of Parkinson's disease and 10 control cases were studied. The Parkinson's disease with dementia group included 30 cases and the Parkinson's disease without dementia group included 22 cases. By multiple logistic regression method, we demonstrated significant hypoperfusion in the occipital cortex in Parkinson's disease with dementia. The cause of dementia in Parkinson's disease may vary. We demonstrated that occipital hypoperfusion was closely correlated to dementia in Parkinson's disease compared to frontal, parietal and temporal perfusion."}
{"id": "16278884", "title": "Unusual cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis with fronto-temporal dementia phenotype.", "content": "Unusual cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis with fronto-temporal dementia phenotype. Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) is an autosomal recessive lipid storage disease caused by a deficiency of the mitochondrial enzyme 27-sterol hydroxylase (CYP27). We report a 53-year-old man, with an unusual phenotype of CTX. He had xanthomas since adolescence. He had no mental retardation and developed at 44 years a progressive neuropsychiatric phenotype, suggestive of fronto-temporal dementia according to clinical Neary criteria. Cataract and ataxia were absent. Cerebral MRI revealed diffuse hyperintense T2 abnormalities in the supratentorial white matter without cerebellar atrophy or lesions, while Technetium-99m-ECD brain SPECT revealed a severe cerebellar hypoperfusion. Serum cholestanol level was elevated with excessive urinary bile alcohols excretion. Mutation analysis revealed that he was compound heterozygous for two mutations in the CYP27A1 gene: 1016 C > T (exon 5) on one allele and a novel mutation, 1435C > G (exon 8) on the other allele. A follow-up study was conducted to evaluate the effects of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) and simvastatin treatment during 3 years. In spite of this treatment, cognitive functions declined but no other signs of neurological deterioration appeared."}
{"id": "16264357", "title": "The contribution of statistical parametric mapping in the assessment of precuneal and medial temporal lobe perfusion by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in mild Alzheimer's and Lewy body dementia.", "content": "The contribution of statistical parametric mapping in the assessment of precuneal and medial temporal lobe perfusion by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in mild Alzheimer's and Lewy body dementia. To assess the role of 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (99mTc-HMPAO SPECT) imaging of the precuneus and medial temporal lobe in the individual patient with mild Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) using statistical parametric mapping and visual image interpretation. Thirty-four patients with mild late-onset Alzheimer's disease, 20 patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 15 patients with DLB and 31 healthy controls were studied. All patients fulfilled appropriate clinical criteria; the DLB patients also had evidence of dopaminergic presynaptic terminal loss on 123I-N-omega-fluoropropyl-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-tropane imaging. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT brain scans were acquired on a multidetector gamma camera and images were assessed separately by visual interpretation and with SPM99. Statistical parametric maps were significantly more accurate than visual image interpretation in all disease categories. In patients with mild late-onset Alzheimer's disease, statistical parametric mapping demonstrated significant hypoperfusion to the precuneus in 59% and to the medial temporal lobe in 53%. Seventy-six per cent of these patients had a defect in either location. No controls had precuneal or medial temporal lobe hypoperfusion (specificity, 100%). Statistical parametric mapping also demonstrated 73% of patients with DLB to have precuneal abnormalities, but only 6% had medial temporal lobe involvement. These findings illustrate the capability of statistical parametric mapping to demonstrate reliable abnormalities in the majority, but not all, patients with either mild Alzheimer's disease or DLB. Precuneal hypoperfusion is not specific to Alzheimer's disease and is equally likely to be found in DLB. In this study, medial temporal hypoperfusion was significantly more common in Alzheimer's disease than in DLB. Statistical parametric maps appear to be considerably more reliable than simple visual interpretation of 99mTc-HMPAO images for these regions."}
{"id": "16252889", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia--part III. Clinical diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia--part III. Clinical diagnosis and treatment. The authors report a comprehensive publication consisting of three parts going into the details of history, prevalence, clinical forms, differential diagnosis, genetics, molecular pathomechanism, and pathology, clinical diagnosis and treatment of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The third part of the present review focuses on the clinical diagnosis and treatment of FTD. The diagnosis of FTD is problematic even today. Mental status, psychometric testing as well as imaging studies such as PET and SPECT, and laboratory examinations may be helpful in the diagnosis. Unfortunately, bedside tests are generally insensitive to mild executive deficits. Most of FTDs do not have characteristic laboratory abnormalities or brain atrophy sufficient to set up the diagnosis; these only allow to rule out other disorders and assume the diagnosis of FTD. An effective treatment for FTD is still to be established. The improvement of serotonin metabolism has been proposed as a biological treatment. Recent studies suggest that bromocriptine may improve selective frontal symptoms, but this and the efficacy of other dopaminergic drugs need further evaluation. Drugs that prevent the expression or accumulation of tau seem to be the most promising causal approach. In aphasia behavioral therapy may be attempted. In addition, caregiver management is essential, because as with those of Alzheimer's dementia patients, they also carry a significant psychosocial stress."}
{"id": "16248849", "title": "Disconnection of language and memory in semantic dementia: a comparative and theoretical analysis.", "content": "Disconnection of language and memory in semantic dementia: a comparative and theoretical analysis. In this paper, we present an illustrative case of Semantic Dementia (SD) and we review the literature on this relatively rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder. After reviewing the clinical, neuroimaging, neuropathological, and genetic features of SD, we propose a theoretical framework that addresses features of SD and relates them to features of other well known neuropsychiatric syndromes. Our 'on-line / off-line disconnection' model seeks to conceptualize SD as a syndrome of disconnection between two large distributed cortical networks, namely, between those networks that subserve language function and those that subserve memory function."}
{"id": "16243425", "title": "The role of Nurr1 in the development of dopaminergic neurons and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The role of Nurr1 in the development of dopaminergic neurons and Parkinson's disease. Nurr1, a transcription factor belonging to the orphan nuclear receptor superfamily, is critical in the development and maintenance of the dopaminergic system and as such it may have role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson' disease (PD). Human Nurr1 gene has been mapped to chromosome 2q22-23 and Nurr1 protein is predominantly expressed in central dopaminergic neurons. Nurr1 interacts with other factors critical for the survival of mensencephalic dopaminergic neurons and it appears to regulate the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter (DAT), vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2), and l-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), all of which are important in the synthesis and storage of dopamine. Experimental studies in Nurr1 knock-out mice indicate that Nurr1 deficiency results in impaired dopaminergic function and increased vulnerability of those midbrain dopaminergic neurons that degenerate in PD. Decreased Nurr1 expression is found in the autopsied PD midbrains, particularly in neurons containing Lewy bodies, as well as in peripheral lymphocytes of patients with parkinsonian disorders. Several variants in Nurr1 gene have been reported in association with PD. All these studies suggest that Nurr1 is not only essential in the development of mensencephalic dopaminergic neurons and maintenance of their functions, but it may also play a role in the pathogenesis of PD."}
{"id": "16242637", "title": "Locomotor activity and evoked dopamine release are reduced in mice overexpressing A30P-mutated human alpha-synuclein.", "content": "Locomotor activity and evoked dopamine release are reduced in mice overexpressing A30P-mutated human alpha-synuclein. We have generated a transgenic mouse line overexpressing mutated human A30P alpha-synuclein under the control of the prion-related protein promoter. Immunohistology revealed mutated human A30P alpha-synuclein protein in numerous brain areas, but no gross morphological changes, Lewy bodies, or loss of dopaminergic cell bodies. The transgenic mice displayed decreased locomotion, impaired motor coordination, and balance. In vivo voltammetry showed that A30P mice responded to longer stimulation of the ascending dopaminergic pathways with less dopamine release in striatum and had a slower rate of dopamine decline after repeated stimulations or after alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-HCl treatment. However, dopamine re-uptake or transporter levels were similar in transgenic and control mice. Our data provide evidence that overexpression of mutated human A30P alpha-synuclein in mice leads to a reduced size of the dopamine storage pool. This is in agreement with the previously postulated involvement of alpha-synuclein in the turnover of transmitter vesicles and may explain the observed motor deficits in A30P mice."}
{"id": "16237129", "title": "Diagnosis and management of dementia with Lewy bodies: third report of the DLB Consortium.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of dementia with Lewy bodies: third report of the DLB Consortium. The dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) Consortium has revised criteria for the clinical and pathologic diagnosis of DLB incorporating new information about the core clinical features and suggesting improved methods to assess them. REM sleep behavior disorder, severe neuroleptic sensitivity, and reduced striatal dopamine transporter activity on functional neuroimaging are given greater diagnostic weighting as features suggestive of a DLB diagnosis. The 1-year rule distinguishing between DLB and Parkinson disease with dementia may be difficult to apply in clinical settings and in such cases the term most appropriate to each individual patient should be used. Generic terms such as Lewy body (LB) disease are often helpful. The authors propose a new scheme for the pathologic assessment of LBs and Lewy neurites (LN) using alpha-synuclein immunohistochemistry and semiquantitative grading of lesion density, with the pattern of regional involvement being more important than total LB count. The new criteria take into account both Lewy-related and Alzheimer disease (AD)-type pathology to allocate a probability that these are associated with the clinical DLB syndrome. Finally, the authors suggest patient management guidelines including the need for accurate diagnosis, a target symptom approach, and use of appropriate outcome measures. There is limited evidence about specific interventions but available data suggest only a partial response of motor symptoms to levodopa: severe sensitivity to typical and atypical antipsychotics in approximately 50%, and improvements in attention, visual hallucinations, and sleep disorders with cholinesterase inhibitors."}
{"id": "16227950", "title": "The role of neuroimaging in the early diagnosis and evaluation of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The role of neuroimaging in the early diagnosis and evaluation of Parkinson's disease. The development of imaging biomarkers which target specific sites in the brain represents a significant advance in neurodegenerative diseases and Parkinson's disease with the promise of new and improved approaches for the early and accurate diagnosis of disease as well as novel ways to monitor patients and assess treatment. The 3 major applications of imaging may play a role in Parkinson's disease include: 1) the use of neuroimaging as a biomarker of disease in order to improve the accuracy, timeliness, and reliability of diagnosis; 2) objective monitoring of the progression of disease to provide a molecular phenotype of Parkinson's disease which may illuminate some of the sources of clinical variability; 3) the evaluation of so-called ''disease-modifying'' treatments designed to retard the progression of disease by interfering with pathways thought implicated in the ongoing neuronal loss or replace dopamine-producing cells. Each of these areas has shown a numbers of critical clinical investigations which have better defined the utility of the imaging tools to these tasks. Nonetheless, current unresolved issues around the clinical role of neuroimaging in monitoring patients over time and validation of quantitative imaging measures of dopaminergic function are immediate issues for the field and the subject of current research efforts and the extension of the lessons learned in Parkinson's to other neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's dementia."}
{"id": "16225091", "title": "(99m)Tc-HmPAO single photon emission tomography, magnetic resonance proton spectroscopy and neuropsychological testing in evaluation of carbon monoxide neurotoxicity.", "content": "(99m)Tc-HmPAO single photon emission tomography, magnetic resonance proton spectroscopy and neuropsychological testing in evaluation of carbon monoxide neurotoxicity. There were 10 acutely CO poisoned study patients without CNS history (head traumas, epilepsy, dementia, migraine or alcoholic diseases) in whom (99m)Tc-HmPAO SPET, HMRS and neuropsychological testing were performed. 99mTc-HmPAO SPET and neuropsychological testing were performed twice: in acute phase and at six months post CO exposure. HMRS was carried out at 8 months post CO exposure. A multidimensional analysis of variance (MANOVA) was used to statistical analysis. Regional CBF disturbances in acute phase of CO poisoning were observed in frontal cortex, basal ganglia and parietal cortex respectively. The most reversible, as seen in control (99m)Tc-HmPAO SPET examination, were the changes observed in parietal cortex. Diffuse generalized cortex hypoperfusion, both in acute phase and at 6 months post exposure, was seen only in one the patient. In all of the examined patients different elevation in mobile lipid or/and lactate concentration in frontal lobe or/and basal ganglia was revealed by HMRS evaluation at eight months post acute CO exposure. Results of neuropsychological testing at baseline and at 6 months partially correlated with neuro-imagine techniques applied."}
{"id": "16223702", "title": "Differential performance of Alzheimer's and vascular dementia patients on a brief battery of neuropsychological tests.", "content": "Differential performance of Alzheimer's and vascular dementia patients on a brief battery of neuropsychological tests. The purpose of this article was to examine the differences in neuropsychological test performance between groups with Alzheimer's and vascular dementia. Patients included in this study were those diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or Vascular Dementia (VAD) through a series of neuroradiological tests that included at a minimum a CT or MRI scan and a SPECT scan. Of the 113 AD patients, the average age was 80.08 (SD = 5.91) years and average education was 12.85 (SD = 2.88). Of the 109 VAD patients, average age was 78.67 (SD = 5.35) and average education was 13.10 (SD = 2.65). Tests included selected subtests of the WAIS-R, Word Fluency, Rey Figure, Boston Naming Test, Math, Reading, and subtests from the WMS-R. Five tests showed significant differences in favor of the VAD group: Information, Similarities, Picture Completion, WRAT Mathematics, and the Boston Naming Test. Both groups did well on Reading, while both did poorly on the Rey and Word Fluency. Although both groups did poorly on memory measures, the VAD patients showed better performance. Overall, the two groups did not differ significantly on the more complex tests, but did differ on more basic tests and all the memory tests. This pattern of similar score on complex tests and different scores on basic tests demonstrates the theory that both types of dementia affected higher, more complex skills. Differences between the groups were only apparent when basic skills were compared and were not reflected in more complex and neuropsychologically \"sensitive\" tests."}
{"id": "16190332", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia of the aged (with special reference to SPECT)].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia of the aged (with special reference to SPECT)]."}
{"id": "16186529", "title": "Natural history of primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Natural history of primary progressive aphasia. To characterize the natural history of primary progressive aphasia (PPA). Forty-nine patients (28 women) with newly diagnosed with PPA presenting to a memory disorders clinic between 1992 and 2001 were prospectively evaluated. Median age at onset was 62 years (range 49 to 73 years) and at first visit was 66 years (52 to 80 years). The median duration of follow-up was 4 years (1 to 11 years). Impairments in activities of daily living developed a median of 6 to 7 (2 to 12) years post onset. Seventy-five percent of patients eventually met clinical diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 14% met diagnostic criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies, and 8% developed signs of corticobasal degeneration; 60% of the patients died after a median course of 7 years (3 to 17 years) at a median age of 71 years (56 to 81 years). Patients showing high Mini-Mental State Examination scores, moderate aphasia, and fluent language at first visit subsequently retained greater autonomy in daily life. Although activities of daily living are well maintained during the first years of the disease, patients with primary progressive aphasia (PPA) may lose autonomy 6 to 7 years after onset. The majority of patients with PPA in the current study developed frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "16180709", "title": "[Autopsy findings in a case of dementia with Lewy bodies with marked autonomic failure and repetitive cardiopulmonary arrest].", "content": "[Autopsy findings in a case of dementia with Lewy bodies with marked autonomic failure and repetitive cardiopulmonary arrest]. We report herein a patient with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) who presented with severe autonomic failure, dementia and parkinsonism. At onset, the 70-year-old man exhibited dementia and gait disturbance. Over the next 3 years, he developed symptoms of autonomic dysfunction, such as sleep apnea, orthostatic hypotension and bladder and bowel dysfunction. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging revealed moderate frontotemporal atrophy. Single photon emission computed tomography images depicted bilateral hypoperfusion in the parietal lobes. Interestingly, recurrent episodes of cardiopulmonary arrest together with unconsciousness occurred during the 2-year period before the patient died at the age of 74. At autopsy, axial slices of the brainstem showed depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. Lewy bodies were present in areas of the brainstem such as the substantia nigra, locus ceruleus, solitary nucleus, raphe nucleus and dorsal vagal nucleus and in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord, sympathetic ganglia, parahippocampal gyrus and cerebral cortex. Neuronal loss was observed in the intermediolateral column, but neurons in the sympathetic ganglia were well preserved. On the basis of the clinical history and pathological findings, we diagnosed this as a case of DLB. There are a few reported cases of DLB associated with various manifestations of autonomic failure. In our patient, autonomic failure including cardiopulmonary arrest may have resulted from widespread impairment of the autonomic nervous system."}
{"id": "16179666", "title": "Loss of insight and functional neuroimaging in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Loss of insight and functional neuroimaging in frontotemporal dementia. Loss of insight is a diagnostic criterion for frontotemporal dementia. It is associated with hypoperfusion/hypometabolism in the right hemisphere, particularly the frontal lobe. Loss of insight is often an anosodiaphoria (i.e., lack of concern) rather than an anosognosia (i.e., decreased awareness)."}
{"id": "16172735", "title": "[Semantic dementia].", "content": "[Semantic dementia]."}
{"id": "16172732", "title": "[Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in Brazil: diagnostic criteria and auxiliary tests. Recommendations of the Scientific Department of Cognitive Neurology and Aging of the Brazilian Academy of Neurology].", "content": "[Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in Brazil: diagnostic criteria and auxiliary tests. Recommendations of the Scientific Department of Cognitive Neurology and Aging of the Brazilian Academy of Neurology]. This panel had the objective of recommending evidence-based guidelines for the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in Brazil. Guidelines from other countries and papers on the diagnosis of AD in Brazil were systematically evaluated in a thorough research of PUBMED and LILACS databases. The panel concluded that dementia diagnosis should be based on the DSM criteria and AD diagnosis, on the McKhann et al. criteria (NINCDS-ADRDA). The recommended auxiliary tests are: blood cell count, blood urea nitrogen, serum levels of creatinine, free-thyroxine, thyroid-stimulant hormone, albumin, hepatic enzymes, vitamin B12 and calcium, serological tests for syphilis and, for those aged less than 60 years, serological tests for HIV. Cerebrospinal fluid examination is recommended in special situations. Computed tomography (or preferentially magnetic resonance imaging, when available) is mandatory and has the main objective of excluding other diseases. SPECT and EEG are optional diagnostic methods."}
{"id": "16138284", "title": "[DaT-SCAN SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[DaT-SCAN SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease]. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is one of the main differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In DLB there is 40-70% loss of striatal dopamine and the loss of dopaminergic cell is accompanied by loss of the dopamine transporter. The loss of dopaminergic neurons in DLB can be confirmed in vivo with I-FP-CIT (DaT-SCAN), a pre-synaptic dopamine transporter marker. There are no changes in DaT-scan in AD compared with controls. AIM. The use of DaT-SCAN for the differential diagnosis between AD and DLB. We use the DaT-SCAN to study the nigrostriatal pathway in 6 patients with dementia and moderate parkinsonism. The Mini-Mental Test and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, motor part only (UPDRS), were performed. A SPECT scan was carried out 3 to 4 hours after administration of 185 MBq FP-CIT (ioflupane) a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand. With occipital cortex used as a radioactivity uptake reference, ratios for the caudate nucleus and the anterior and posterior putamen of both hemispheres were calculated. All scans were also rated by a simple visual method. All patients had dementia with moderate fluctuations in cognitive function, parkinsonian syndrome and hallucinations. DaT-SCAN was normal in 2 patients and pathological in 4. The sensitivity and specificity of the DLB criteria vary markedly. FP-CIT SPECT may be a new tool in the differential diagnosis between DLB and AD."}
{"id": "16122406", "title": "[Application of 123I-FP-CIT in the clinical practice in Parkinsonism patients].", "content": "[Application of 123I-FP-CIT in the clinical practice in Parkinsonism patients]. 123I-FP-CIT scan has been supported in the last years by numerous studies as a technique of undeniable value to assess presynaptic integrity of the nigrostriatal pathway. The objective of this study is to perform a descriptive analysis of the main diagnostic aspects obtained from the first 110 studies made with FP-CIT in our center. The study population consisted of 110 consecutive patients distributed into 5 groups according to the clinical diagnosis, after a follow-up period of at least one year. Qualitative and quantitative scintigraphy was done. A total of 61.8 % (68/110) of the studies were considered abnormal and 38.2 % (42/110) as normal. Among the abnormal examinations there was 88.3 % (60/68) agreement with the clinical diagnosis and agreement was 83.4 % (35/42) in the normal examinations. Inverse significant correlation was assessed between striatal binding and severity according to the H and Y scale (r = -0.4) and between qualitative and quantitative assessment (r = -0.86). There was no significant correlation between the degeneration of dopaminergic function according to age and degree of asymmetry on striatal binding in the different groups. Generally an adequate agreement between clinical diagnosis and SPECT-FP-CIT was observed. Inverse correlation between striatal binding and H and Y scale and greater asymmetry at striatal binding was obtained among Parkinson patients than in the rest of groups."}
{"id": "16116584", "title": "A SPECT study of wandering behavior in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A SPECT study of wandering behavior in Alzheimer's disease. Among behavior disturbance during Alzheimer's disease (AD), wandering is one of the most common. Different psychological processes have been suggested to explain the wandering behavior. The aim of this study was to examine whether wandering during AD was associated with cerebral perfusion patterns measured by (99 m)Tc-labeled bicisate (ECD) brain SPECT. We compared SPECT scans of 13 AD subjects with wandering behavior (sex ratio M/F, 4/9; age, 73.1 years, SD 7.4; Mini Mental Status Examination score, median 20 interquartile range [16-23]), 13 AD subjects without wandering behavior (matched for age [ +/- 2 years], sex and MMSE score [ +/- 2 points]) and 13 healthy controls (matched for age [ +/- 2 years] and sex) without cognitive impairment. Wandering was defined on the Neuro-Psychiatric Inventory. Score of leukoaraiosis, assessed with the scale of Blennow and number of lacuna infarction were compared on CT scan. SPECT imaging was compared using statistical parametric mapping (SPM 2). There were no significant differences between the groups in term of educational level and CT scan analysis. SPECT imaging was consistent with the diagnosis of AD in both wanderers and AD subjects without wandering behavior. Despite similar clinical dementia severity, wanderers had more severely reduced regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the left parietal-temporal lobe than AD subjects without wandering behavior. Wandering behavior could be facilitated by a specific patterns of cerebral blood flow. Wandering, as a physical activity, could also enhance the recruitment of the cortical network."}
{"id": "16107353", "title": "How useful is [123I]beta-CIT SPECT in clinical practice?", "content": "How useful is [123I]beta-CIT SPECT in clinical practice? To assess the accuracy and clinical usefulness of [(123)I]beta-CIT (2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane) SPECT in the differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. 185 consecutive patients with symptoms of movement disorder were studied. The diagnoses were Parkinson's disease (92), essential tremor (16), vascular parkinsonism (15), various Parkinson plus syndromes (P+) (12), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) (5), dystonia (5), drug induced movement disorder (12), and other diagnoses (8). A reference group (psychogenic parkinsonism) comprised 20 subjects with complaints suggesting extrapyramidal disease but with no unequivocal signs on clinical examination and no abnormalities on brain imaging. beta-CIT uptake was significantly lower in the whole striatum as well as separately in the putamen and in the caudate nucleus in Parkinson's disease than in the reference group or in drug induced movement disorder, essential tremor, or dystonia. The uptake of beta-CIT in the vascular parkinsonism group was heterogeneous and mean beta-CIT uptake fell between the reference group and the Parkinson's disease group. In the P+ and DLB groups the striatal uptake ratios overlapped those of the Parkinson's disease group. [(123)I]beta-CIT SPECT may not be as useful a tool in the clinical differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease as was previously believed, but it was 100% sensitive and specific for the diagnosis in younger patients (age <55 years). In older patients (age >55 years) specificity was substantially lower (68.5%). This differential specificity reflected the different distribution of differential diagnostic disorders (P+, DLB, vascular parkinsonism) in the older and younger age groups."}
{"id": "16100990", "title": "[Semantic dementia: clinical and neuroimaging evaluation. Case report].", "content": "[Semantic dementia: clinical and neuroimaging evaluation. Case report]. Semantic dementia is a clinical syndrome in the spectrum of frontotemporal lobar degeneration group. We report on a 63 years old man who presented with memory disorder of semantic nature for visual and mainly verbal material when he was 57 years old. Mild behavior impairment was present and related to exaggerated responses to algic stimuli and repetitive behavior. Structural and functional neuroimaging methods disclosed asymmetric bitemporal damage, mainly on the left. Differential diagnosis should be considered with Alzheimer's disease, another subtypes of the frontotemporal lobar degeneration group and any other syndrome that presents with a fluent aphasic progressive disorder."}
{"id": "16096578", "title": "Voxel-based assessment of spinal tap test-induced regional cerebral blood flow changes in normal pressure hydrocephalus.", "content": "Voxel-based assessment of spinal tap test-induced regional cerebral blood flow changes in normal pressure hydrocephalus. Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a cause of dementia that may be amended by medical intervention. Its diagnosis is therefore of major importance and the establishment of response criteria to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting is essential. One of these criteria is the clinical response to spinal tap. The accuracy of the spinal tap test could potentially be improved by adding neuroimaging of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes to the response criteria. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) is a voxel-based method of image analysis that may be used to statistically assess the significance of rCBF changes. The objective of this study was to evaluate, by SPM, spinal tap test-induced rCBF changes in patients with NPH syndrome. Forty patients with NPH syndrome underwent hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) before and after a spinal tap test (1-day split-dose protocol). The differences in rCBF between these pairs of scans were analysed by SPM in the whole group and between subgroups divided according to gait improvement at the spinal tap test. In the whole group of patients, there was no statistical difference between pre- and post-spinal tap SPECT images. SPM analysis of patients grouped as a function of their clinical response to the spinal tap test revealed a significant post-spinal tap rCBF increase in the bilateral dorsolateral frontal and left mesiotemporal cortex in clinically responding compared with non-responding patients. According to SPM analysis, gait improvement at the spinal tap test in patients with NPH syndrome is associated with an rCBF increase localized in the bilateral dorsolateral frontal and left mesiotemporal cortex."}
{"id": "16092099", "title": "Atypical parkinsonism of Japan: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism-dementia complex of the Kii peninsula of Japan (Muro disease): an update.", "content": "Atypical parkinsonism of Japan: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism-dementia complex of the Kii peninsula of Japan (Muro disease): an update. An update of the endemic parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) frequently associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the high prevalence ALS focus of the Kii peninsula of Japan is presented. The initial symptom was parkinsonian gait or hypobulia/amnesia, which was followed by akinesia, rigidity, occasional tremor, bradyphrenia, abulia and amnesia, and finally by akinetic mutism. In several years, most of the patients developed ALS symptoms such as muscle atrophy, bulbar palsy, and upper motor neuron signs. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography of the brain showed marked atrophy of the temporal and frontal lobes and the cerebral blood flow reduction on single-photon emission computed tomography. Marked loss of nerve cells associated with abundant neurofibrillar tangles (NFTs) in the entire central nervous system, most predominantly in the brainstem and temporal lobe was characteristic. Concomitant ALS pathology involving the upper and lower motor neurons was common, and senile plaques were absent in most cases. NFTs consisted of twisted tubules on electron microscopy. Western blot of tau protein showed three bands consisting of six tau isoforms, similar to those of Alzheimer's disease. A family history of ALS/PDC was recorded in more than 70% of patients, but no abnormal mutation or polymorphism was found in the genes of SOD1, tau, and apolipoprotein E. Familial nature and continuing morbidity of Kii ALS/PDC suggest that genetic factors may be more likely in its pathogenesis."}
{"id": "16092074", "title": "How to diagnose multiple system atrophy.", "content": "How to diagnose multiple system atrophy. The diagnosis of multiple system atrophy (MSA) in life remains entirely clinical. Consensus diagnostic criteria have been developed, but their use does not particularly render a diagnosis of MSA more accurate than are clinicians' diagnoses. Some patients may not fulfill the stipulated core diagnostic criteria, yet display many so-called red flags pointing toward MSA. The additional usefulness of these red flags and of a variety of investigations currently is being investigated, with a view to some of them being incorporated in future sets of diagnostic criteria."}
{"id": "16082159", "title": "Unique cerebellar-cerebral form of autosomal recessive ataxia.", "content": "Unique cerebellar-cerebral form of autosomal recessive ataxia. We describe a unique condition affecting two siblings with a form of progressive spinocerebellar ataxia. After a period of very slowly progressive ataxia, the patients developed an extremely accelerated progression of the condition which consisted of cerebellar ataxia, seizure, progressive dementia and spastic tetraparesis. Age of onset was variable at 7 to 18 years. Brain magnetic resonance image (MRI) showed marked atrophy of the cerebellum and cerebrum with strikingly preserved brainstem dimensions. Biochemical or molecular genetic analysis was performed in an elder sister and her parents to exclude known forms of familial spinocerebellar ataxia, dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), progressive myoclonic epilepsy, and some metabolic disorders which could have a similar phenotype. The mode of inheritance appears to be autosomal recessive. We think that the affected siblings may have a new type of autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia."}
{"id": "16082076", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy: clinical presentation and cognitive deficits compared to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy: clinical presentation and cognitive deficits compared to Alzheimer's disease. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) is an uncommon dementia syndrome with initial manifestations of visual dysfunction and preservation of memory and language until late in the disease. Since prognosis and management differ from typical Alzheimer's disease (tAD), clinical tests to distinguish PCA from tAD are needed. Fifteen PCA cases and 15 tAD cases, defined by clinical and MRI criteria, were compared by present symptoms and scores on four cognitive tests. Symptoms of visual disturbance and dyslexia were more commonly reported in PCA cases (p = 0.0001 and p = 0.006, respectively), and memory loss was more commonly reported in tAD (p = 0.006). Patients with PCA were less accurate on the Cortical Vision Screening Test (t = 6.0; p < 0.001) and in copying the Rey-Osterreith Complex Figure (t = 6.0; p < 0.001), in comparison to the tAD group. Memory, evaluated by the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, was impaired in both groups; however, delayed recall was more impaired in the tAD group (t = 2.5; p = 0.03). Compared to patients with tAD, patients with PCA are more likely to present to their providers with symptoms of visual dysfunction. Performance on simple tests of visual perception and copying can be used to distinguish the two disorders even a few years after initial symptoms."}
{"id": "16040356", "title": "Neuropsychological measures and single photon emission computed tomography in the differentiation and classification of cerebral perfusion deficits in Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Neuropsychological measures and single photon emission computed tomography in the differentiation and classification of cerebral perfusion deficits in Alzheimer's dementia. The accurate diagnosis of Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type (DAT) continues to be an area of difficulty for the fields of neuropsychology and neurology. The introduction of new medications that appear to mediate the insidious progression of the disorder increases the need for timely differentiation of DAT from other dementia-related disorders. The present study examined the relationship between hemispheric differences in regional cerebral blood flow with corresponding lateral neuropsychological processing deficits in patients with DAT. Eighty patients with a diagnosis of DAT were administered Single Photon Emission Computerized Tomography (SPECT) scans and a battery of left and right hemisphere neuropsychological-based tasks. The results of ANOVA indicated that patients with DAT who were not suffering from perfusion deficits exhibited significantly fewer neuropsychological deficits than did patients with DAT who had perfusion deficits. The neuropsychological tests that measured verbal ability, logical memory, word-pair learning, reading, arithmetic, and visual-perceptual organization were all significantly lower in the group with perfusion deficits. Further analysis indicated that patients with left hemisphere perfusion deficits tended to have poorer neuropsychological skills than did individuals with right hemisphere perfusion deficits, diffuse perfusion deficits, and no perfusion deficits. A Stepwise Discriminant Analysis was unable to use the neuropsychological variables to classify patients accurately into perfusion deficit groups."}
{"id": "16035122", "title": "Longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow SPECT in Parkinson's disease with dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow SPECT in Parkinson's disease with dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies. People with Parkinson's disease (PD) have an increased risk of developing dementia (PDD), which often has clinical features similar to dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Whilst perfusion studies have shown parieto-occipital hypoperfusion in DLB and PDD relative to controls, there have not been any longitudinal studies of perfusion changes in PDD and DLB. In this study, we measured brain perfusion using Tc99m HMPAO SPECT over one year in 17 PDD, 18 DLB and 34 healthy subjects. We used SPM99 to compare perfusion changes in the two dementia groups against the control group. We did not see any reductions in perfusion in either of the dementia groups. However, in the DLB, but not PDD group, there was a significant increase in putamen perfusion relative to controls over the year. In both DLB and PDD groups, there was a correlation between striatal perfusion increase over the year, and worsening of parkinsonism. Perfusion changes were not secondary to changes in antiparkinsonian medication. The increase in striatal perfusion may be a compensatory change related to decreasing striatal dopaminergic input from the substantia nigra in PDD and DLB, consistent with the increased predominance of rigidity over tremor symptoms in these groups compared with non-demented PD."}
{"id": "16026093", "title": "[Brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography in children after acute encephalopathy].", "content": "[Brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography in children after acute encephalopathy]. We studied single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of 15 children with acute encephalopathy after more than 1 year from the onset, using technetium-99 m-L, L-ethyl cystinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) and a three-dementional stereotaxic region of interest template. Regional cerebral blood flow was evaluated and divided in three groups according to the severity of disability: absent or mild, moderate, and severe. There was no abnormality on SPECT in the patients without disability or with mild disability. Diffuse hypoperfusion was shown in the groups with moderate and severe disability. The patients with severe disability showed hypoperfusion in the pericallosal, frontal and central areas which was more pronounced than in the patients with moderate disability."}
{"id": "16023534", "title": "Brain 3D-SSP SPECT analysis in dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease with and without dementia, and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain 3D-SSP SPECT analysis in dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease with and without dementia, and Alzheimer's disease. Cerebral blood flow was compared among patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD), Parkinson's disease without dementia (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) analysis. We attempt to clarify the difference of reduction pattern on SPECT among patients having DLB, PDD, PD, AD. Six patients with DLB, 7 patients with PDD who were matched with the DLB patients for age, unified Parkinson's disease rating scale-III (UPDRS-III) score, and degree of cognitive function disorders, 21 patients with PD who were matched with the DLB patients for age, UPDRS-III score, 12 patients with AD who were matched with the DLB patients for age and degree of cognitive function disorders, and 12 control subjects. All patients were examined by N-isopropyl-p[123I] iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography (123I-IMP SPECT), and obtained images were analyzed with 3D-SSP using an image-analysis software, iSSP ver. 3.5. Although DLB and PDD showed similar cerebral perfusion reduction pattern at the lateral parietal association and lateral temporal association and precuneus on SPECT by the pixel-by-pixel comparison, greater perfusion reduction was observed in DLB than in PDD. Cerebral perfusion was decreased at the occipital lobe of the DLB patients compared with the AD patients. The regional pattern of blood flow reduction in the brain was found to be different among DLB, PD, and AD. Greater blood flow reduction was observed in DLB, although DLB and PDD showed similar reduction pattern. These regional differences were considered to suggest different and disease-specific combinations of underlying pathological and neurochemical processes."}
{"id": "16010052", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia: a comparative study of progressive nonfluent aphasia and semantic dementia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia: a comparative study of progressive nonfluent aphasia and semantic dementia. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA), a degenerative disorder, is often misdiagnosed as Alzheimer's disease. Its subtypes, semantic dementia (SD), and progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), are often difficult to differentiate from each other. Our objective was to highlight the differences in the language profiles of patients with SD and PNFA. To bring out these differences, we report two patients with PPA, one with SD and the other with PNFA. They were administered the Western aphasia battery (WAB) and a semantic battery, which assesses semantic memory. The profiles of language impairment on the WAB indicated that the patient with PNFA had syntactic errors in expressive speech but relatively preserved semantics and comprehension, whereas the patient with SD had preserved syntax but made semantic errors in expressive speech, and had impaired comprehension. There were differences in their performance on the semantic battery too. The patient with SD made relatively less errors on confrontation naming, although on the pointing task he failed to point to those line drawings, which he was unable to name on confrontation. In contrast, the finding of the PNFA patient was the reverse of this. Supplementing conventional neuropsychological tests with formal tests for assessment of language functions is useful in the early diagnosis of PPA. The performance of PPA patients on a detailed assessment of language that includes use of formal tests such as the semantic battery helps to differentiate PNFA from SD."}
{"id": "16001409", "title": "Preserved cardiac sympathetic nerve accounts for normal cardiac uptake of MIBG in PARK2.", "content": "Preserved cardiac sympathetic nerve accounts for normal cardiac uptake of MIBG in PARK2. We performed [123I] MIBG myocardial scintigraphy in two of three patients with PARK2 from unrelated families and examined the heart tissues from the three patients immunohistochemically using an antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to see whether cardiac sympathetic nerve is involved. Cardiac uptake of MIBG was normal except for a slight decrease in the late phase in one of the patients. Postmortem examination revealed that TH-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the epicardium were well preserved in all three patients. The present study confirmed that cardiac sympathetic nerve is well preserved in PARK2 with a homozygous exon deletion, which accounts for normal cardiac uptake of MIBG. Moreover, normal cardiac uptake of MIBG might be of potential diagnostic value to indicate the absence of Lewy body pathology, even in patients with levodopa-responsive Parkinsonism, as in PARK2."}
{"id": "15988865", "title": "[Community strategies for rehabilitation in senile dementia].", "content": "[Community strategies for rehabilitation in senile dementia]."}
{"id": "15980631", "title": "Acquired sociopathy and frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Acquired sociopathy and frontotemporal dementia. It is not understood why some patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) manifest sociopathic behavior. To examine the prevalence and characteristics of sociopathic behavior in FTD patients as compared to those with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We surveyed a group of FTD patients and a group of AD patients for sociopathic behavior, evaluated the characteristics surrounding their acts, and compared the groups on neuropsychological tests and functional neuroimaging. Twenty-eight outpatients with FTD (15 men, 13 women; 61.9+/-7.1 years; Mini-Mental State Examination score 23.6+/-8.1) were compared with 28 patients with clinically probable AD (13 men, 15 women; 66.1+/-9.2 years; Mini-Mental State Examination score 21.3 +/- 5.3). Main outcome measures included: (a) the prevalence of sociopathic acts; (b) a structured interview; (c) neuropsychological tests including the Frontal Assessment Battery, and (d) clinically obtained positron emission tomography or single photon emission tomography scans. Sixteen (57%) of the FTD patients had sociopathic behavior compared to two (7%) of the AD patients (chi(2)=13.84, p<0.001). Sociopathic acts among FTD patients included unsolicited sexual acts, traffic violations, physical assaults, and other unacceptable behaviors. On interview, the FTD patients with sociopathic acts were aware of their behavior and knew that it was wrong but could not prevent themselves from acting impulsively. They claimed subsequent remorse, but they did not act on it or show concern for the consequences. Among FTD patients with sociopathy, neuropsychological assessment showed impaired motor inhibition, and functional neuroimaging showed right frontotemporal involvement. The results suggest that sociopathy in FTD results from a combination of diminished emotional concern for the consequences of their acts and disinhibition consequent to right frontotemporal dysfunction. In many jurisdictions, FTD patients with sociopathy would not pass legal criteria for 'not guilty by reason of insanity'."}
{"id": "15969312", "title": "[Pharmacology of Alzheimer's disease: where do we go from here?].", "content": "[Pharmacology of Alzheimer's disease: where do we go from here?]. Ten years after the introduction of the first drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, tacrine, it seems appropriate to reappraise the pharmacological processes of innovation in the field of research in dementia. The aim of this review is to pinpoint concrete improvements achieved in this field, in terms of experimental methods and clinical evaluation of the compounds, as well as the neurochemistry of the disease and cellular targets deserving of initial consideration. * The article first considers the use of animal models of Alzheimer's disease, which are classified according to two categories: animals with lesions of some neuronal pathways specifically implicated in clinical symptoms (i.e. lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the origin of cholinergic projections to the cortex underlying memory processes); and transgenic models, which are intended to reproduce some of the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. Drugs can be tested in animals with such alterations for their effect on neuropathology, neurochemistry and behavioural disturbances. More recently, in silico models have been developed, which offer the possibility of simulating the pharmacodynamic effects of drugs in specific areas of the brain. These experiments are helpful in distinguishing purely symptomatic effects from disease-modifying effects, the latter being the ultimate goal of the modern pharmacology of dementia. * The second breakthrough considered in this article is the codification and standardisation of clinical methods for obtaining a more accurate and earlier diagnosis (the recent introduction of the concept of \"Mild Cognitive Impairment\", which includes patients who will later develop a true clinical dementia syndrome). In that respect, the determination of the biological markers of Alzheimer's disease (apolipoprotein E, amyloid substance, protein-tau, isoprostane) as well as progress in neuroimaging (functional positron emission tomography [fPET]-scan, single photon emission-computed tomography [SPECT], functional nuclear magnetic resonance [fNMR]) are discussed in terms of their potential as new tools in the early stages of drug development (surrogate markers). The methods used during the comparative clinical trials (phase III) have been elaborated and internationally standardised during the assessment of the different acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChE-I), with the knowledge that, since 1994, four of these have been officially approved: tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine; the same methods have been used for developing memantine, a recently-launched modulator of glutamatergic neurotransmission. The validated scales now take into consideration not only the cognitive dimensions of Alzheimer's disease but also the behavioural symptoms, with the introduction of the concept of BPSD (behavioural psychological symptoms of dementia). Some proposals to improve this clinical assessment of anti-dementia drugs are presented here. * The section of this article dealing with prospective issues considers the main pathways of interest in drug innovation and the elucidation of new targets for the future compounds. As well as their symptomatic effects on the different components of cognition, drugs should be neuroprotective and limit the lesions documented in Alzheimer's disease, with the aim of progressing far beyond the amyloid hypothesis (immunisation, beta-sheet breakers, secretase inhibitors). The field of excitotoxicity (which is mainly glutamate dependent) appears fruitful, because of the possibility of pharmacological intervention at the different steps in the excitotoxic process. All the new directions presented in this article support the concept of true disease-modifying agents. In conclusion, this prospective review should be considered as a guide in fostering drug innovation in Alzheimer's disease and related disorders and should help to decrease the gap existing between neuroscience and therapeutics."}
{"id": "15966270", "title": "Neuropsychological tests and functional nuclear neuroimaging provide evidence of subclinical impairment in Nasu-Hakola disease heterozygotes.", "content": "Neuropsychological tests and functional nuclear neuroimaging provide evidence of subclinical impairment in Nasu-Hakola disease heterozygotes. Nasu-Hakola disease is a rare, recessively inherited disease characterized by presenile dementia and bone cysts. Until now, no evidence of subclincal pathological changes in individuals heterozygous for the mutations underlying Nasu-Hakola disease has been reported. We performed a functional neuroimaging (99mTc-ECD SPECT) and neuropsychological study of healthy members of an Italian family carrying a mutation in the TREM2 gene. Two healthy subjects heterozygous for one mutated TREM2 allele showed a deficit of visuospatial memory associated with hypoperfusion in the basal ganglia, whereas the homozygotes for the wild-type allele of TREM2 did not show any abnormalities."}
{"id": "15964748", "title": "Change in perfusion, hallucinations and fluctuations in consciousness in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Change in perfusion, hallucinations and fluctuations in consciousness in dementia with Lewy bodies. Fluctuations in consciousness and visual hallucinations are common neuropsychiatric features of dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease dementia. To investigate potential neural correlates, we compared how changes in brain perfusion over a 1-year period were related to changes in the severity of these key clinical features. We recruited 29 subjects with either Parkinson's disease with dementia (15 subjects) or dementia with Lewy bodies (14 subjects). Cerebral perfusion was measured using HMPAO SPECT at baseline, and repeated 1 year later. The presence of hallucinations (Neuropsychiatric Inventory), severity of fluctuations in consciousness (fluctuation assessment scale) and cognitive ability (CAMCOG) were assessed at both time points. After controlling for changes in cognitive ability and effect of cholinesterase medication, we found a significant correlation between an increase in perfusion in midline posterior cingulate and decrease in hallucination severity. There was also a significant correlation between increased fluctuations of consciousness and increased thalamic and decreased inferior occipital perfusion. We have identified important neural correlates of key clinical features in Lewy body dementia and postulate that the associations can be understood through the influence of the cholinergic system on attention."}
{"id": "15960171", "title": "[A case of primary progressive multiple sclerosis with onset of memory impairment].", "content": "[A case of primary progressive multiple sclerosis with onset of memory impairment]. We report a 52-year-old woman with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) presenting with chronic progressive memory impairment. From a couple of years prior to admission, she had developed impairment of her short-term memory. For example, she forgot her nephew's name, and spoke the same phrases again and again. She also sometimes forgot to turn off her gas stove and forgot things she bought in shops. Moreover, her mental activity gradually decreased and she became apathetic. However, she did not note her memory impairment, and had no hallucinations. She was admitted to our hospital on 20 May, 2003 because donepezil had been ineffective for treating her memory impairment. Neurologically, she showed bilateral horizontal gaze nystagmus, mild limb ataxia on the left and mildly ataxic gait. Neuropsychological examinations showed mildly impaired cognitive function, e.g., MMSE 25/30, WAIS-R full IQ 69 and especially in verbal short memory, which may represent temporal lobe dysfunction. Moreover, Benton's visual memory test revealed marked visual short-term memory impairment, while impaired performance on a Kana picking up test suggested mild to moderate attention impairment, which could have represented frontal lobe dysfunction. Brain MRI showed multiple T2-high plaque lesions close to the bilateral lateral ventricles, and bilateral optic nerve lesions enhanced by gadolinium. Also, spinal cord MRI showed a gadolinium enhanced lesion at Th5 on the left. Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) examination showed normal cell count and protein level, and undetectable oligoclonal bands (OCB), but an elevated IgG index (1.1, normal < 0.85). Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) showed prolonged P100 latency bilaterally, indicating subclinical optic nerve lesions. She was thus diagnosed as having PPMS according to McDonald's diagnostic criteria for MS. 99mTc Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed a decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the bilateral frontal and temporal lobes, which was consistent with her clinical features. PPMS patients generally present with chronic progressive spastic paraparesis and/or cerebellar ataxia. Cognitive impairments observed in PPMS are generally thought to be due to white matter lesions, i.e., subcortical dementia. However, some recent reports have shown MS patients with short-term memory impairment (antegrade amnesia) similar to cortical dementias such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In such MS cases, visual short-term memory impairment seems characteristic of their cognitive impairment compared to AD cases. As well, the present case showed visual memory impairment as evaluated by Benton's memory test. Parietal and frontal lobes are reported to be important for verbal and visual working memory, respectively. Thus, in the present case, decreased CBF in the frontal and temporal lobes, which could have been due to a disconnection between cortices and subcortices caused by the white matter lesions, is consistent with the type of her cognitive dysfunction, i.e., notable visual memory impairment. PPMS may thus be an important disease as a differential diagnosis for chronic progressive dementia. Further neuropsychological and functional imaging studies will be necessary to achieve a better understanding of the mechanisms of cognitive impairment in PPMS."}
{"id": "15952930", "title": "Recent important trials of pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Recent important trials of pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) affects approximately 1% of individuals > 60 years. Of these PD patients approximately 40% suffer dementia in later life. Levodopa is commonly used in the treatment of PD. Experimental evidence suggests that the dopamine synthesised from levodopa may contribute to the further degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. The results of the clinical outcome part of the Earlier Versus Later Levodopa Therapy in PD study suggest that levodopa slows the progression of PD. In contrast, the single photon emission-computed tomography imaging substudy was not conclusive but suggested that levodopa hastened the progression of PD. Thus, further studies of the effects of levodopa on the progression of PD are needed before it can be proved that levodopa does not have a detrimental effect on dopaminergic neurons. In a clinical trial of the anticholinesterase rivastigmine, a small improvement was observed in some patients suffering from dementia associated with PD. This small benefit has to be balanced against cholinergic side effects and a possible loss of efficacy of antimuscarinic agents used for motor control in PD."}
{"id": "15931516", "title": "Progression of dopaminergic degeneration in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease with and without dementia assessed using 123I-FP-CIT SPECT.", "content": "Progression of dopaminergic degeneration in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease with and without dementia assessed using 123I-FP-CIT SPECT. The objective of this study was to investigate the rate of progression of nigrostriatal dopaminergic loss in subjects with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease (PD) and PD with dementia (PDD) using serial 123I-FP-CIT SPECT imaging. We hypothesised that striatal rates of decline in patients would be greater than in controls, and that DLB and PDD would show similar rates, reflecting the similarity in neurobiological mechanisms of dopaminergic loss between the two disorders. We studied 20 patients with DLB, 20 with PD, 15 with PDD and 22 healthy age-matched controls. Semi-automated region of interest (ROI) analysis was performed on both baseline and repeat scans for each subject and mean striatal uptake ratios (caudate, anterior and posterior putamen) were calculated. Rates of decline in striatal binding between groups were assessed using ANCOVA. Significant differences between patients and controls were observed in caudate (DLB, PD, PDD, p< or =0.01), anterior putamen (DLB, PDD, p< or =0.05; PD, p=0.07) and posterior putamen (DLB, PD, PDD, p<0.006). Rates of decline were similar between DLB, PD and PDD. In conclusion, this is the first study to show that significant progressive dopaminergic loss occurs in DLB and PDD using serial 123I-FP-CIT SPECT. Dementia severity and motor impairment were correlated with decline, suggesting that dopaminergic loss may play an important role in cognitive as well as motor features."}
{"id": "15925773", "title": "Reduced posterior cingulate binding of I-123 iodo-dexetimide to muscarinic receptors in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Reduced posterior cingulate binding of I-123 iodo-dexetimide to muscarinic receptors in mild Alzheimer's disease. Early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) allows timely pharmacological and social interventions. Alteration in muscarinic receptor binding was evaluated with I-123 iodo-dexetimide (IDEX) in early clinical stage AD. We studied 11 mild AD patients (Folstein Minimental State Examination Score 24-27, Clinical Dementia Rating 0.5-1.0) and 10 age- and sex-matched normal subjects with SPECT brain imaging after injection of 185 MBq of IDEX and 750 MBq of 99mTc-HMPAO. Using a voxel based approach (Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM99) software), a deficit in IDEX binding was found in the posterior cingulate cortex in the mild AD group with p (corrected)=0.06 for the most significant voxel and p=0.0003 for the voxel cluster. Region of interest (ROI) analysis confirmed the SPM99 results. SPM99 found no deficit in the HMPAO scans, suggesting that neither atrophy nor hypoperfusion were major factors in the reduced IDEX binding. This study provides further evidence of the involvement of the posterior cingulate region and of muscarinic receptors in early Alzheimer's disease and suggests that this change may precede an alteration in blood flow."}
{"id": "15908747", "title": "Diagnostic value of FDG-PET and HMPAO-SPET in patients with mild dementia and mild cognitive impairment: metabolic index and perfusion index.", "content": "Diagnostic value of FDG-PET and HMPAO-SPET in patients with mild dementia and mild cognitive impairment: metabolic index and perfusion index. The diagnostic potential of F-18-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (PET) and technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime single-photon emission tomography (SPET) in early detection and differential diagnosis of early dementia was evaluated including a comparison of metabolic and perfusion indices (PI). Twenty-four patients with initial clinical suspicion of beginning dementia were examined, 12 of them with mild cognitive impairment. All patients underwent SPET and PET within 2 weeks. Data were compared with the final clinical diagnosis at follow-up - 9 with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 1 with frontotemporal dementia, 1 with vascular dementia (VD), 7 with mixed type of dementia (MIX) and 6 without any type of dementia. Metabolic indices (MI) and PI were compared with each other. The regional cerebral blood flow difference (rCBFdiff) calculated as local uptake difference between the right and left hemisphere was measured for patients with VD and MIX. PET showed higher sensitivity and specificity in identifying the different types of early dementia (44--91 and 78--89%, respectively) than SPET (11--64 and 79--89%, respectively), especially in detecting AD (sensitivity 44%, specificity 83%) and MIX (sensitivity 71%, specificity 78%). Especially in patients with mild cognitive impairment, PET was the superior imaging modality for predicting dementia. Using PET, dementia could be excluded in all patients who did not develop dementia during the follow-up. In all patients, a weak correlation between PI and MI was observed (rho=0.64, p<0.002). The rCBFdiff in patients with VD and MIX ranged from 7 to 37%. In this study on patients with initial suspicion of beginning dementia who underwent both imaging modalities, PET and SPET, PET was the superior imaging method, especially in the detection of early AD or MIX."}
{"id": "15900096", "title": "Improvement pattern in the clock drawing test in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Improvement pattern in the clock drawing test in early Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this paper was to compare the performance of a group of patients with early Alzheimer's disease (EAD) against a control group of healthy control (HC) subjects in the Clock Drawing Test (CDT), i.e. verbal command versus copying of a clock model presented to the subject. The authors have studied 140 subjects; 70 patients with probable EAD, with a mean age of 76.4 +/- 7.64 years and a clinical dementia rating stage 1 (mild dementia), and 70 HC with a mean age of 75.16 +/- 6.34 years. Patients in the EAD group obtained significantly higher scores on the copy command mode than on the verbal command mode (Z = -7.129, p < 0.001)--improvement pattern of the CDT--whereas no statistically significant differences were found in the HC group (Z = -2.001, p < 0.080). Within the group of EAD patients, we have noticed that there is a correlation between the copy command mode and the visual-constructive functions of the Cambridge Cognitive Examination (CAMCOG) (r = 0.607, p < 0.01), while the memory functions of the CAMCOG correlate with the verbal command mode (r = 0.704, p < 0.01). In our study, the EAD patients show an improvement pattern in the execution of the CDT copy command in comparison with the execution of the CDT verbal command, which we did not observe in the HC group. Such results might be associated with a greater deterioration of the memory functions when compared with the visual-constructive ones in the patients with EAD."}
{"id": "15896221", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow deficits in mild Alzheimer's disease using high resolution single photon emission computerized tomography.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow deficits in mild Alzheimer's disease using high resolution single photon emission computerized tomography. In spite of its wide availability, single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) scanning is uncommonly used in the assessment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias. In light of recent advances in scanning protocols and image analysis, SPECT needs to be re-examined as a tool in the diagnosis of dementia. A total of 18 subjects with early AD and 10 healthy elderly control subjects were examined with high resolution SPECT during the performance of a simple word discrimination task. SPECT images were coregistered with individual magnetic resonance imaging scans, allowing delineation of predetermined neuroanatomical Regions of Interest (ROI). There was a gradation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) values in both groups, with the lowest values being in the hippocampus and the highest in the striatum, thalamus and cerebellum. Compared to healthy controls, AD subjects demonstrated lower relative rCBF in parietal and prefrontal cortices. Analysis of individual ROI demonstrated bilateral reduction of rCBF in prefrontal poles, posterior temporal and anterior parietal cortex, and unilateral reduction of rCBF in left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, right posterior parietal cortex and the left cingulate body. There were no significant differences for hippocampal, occipital or basal ganglia rCBF. Discriminant function analysis indicated that rCBF in the prefrontal polar regions achieved the best classification of cases. SPECT has utility in the diagnostic assessment of AD if standardized and semiquantitative techniques are used."}
{"id": "15886744", "title": "[Alzheimer's dementia, sleep disorders and nuclear medicine].", "content": "[Alzheimer's dementia, sleep disorders and nuclear medicine]. In case new diagnostic procedures for Alzheimer's dementia (AD) appear, Nuclear Medicine (NM) would like to be aware of them in order to evaluate its own contribution to diagnose AD by SPET and PET brain studies. Recently, sleep disturbances were studied in AD and tend to be diagnostic for early AD. In AD the actual time of night sleep was found to be 5.7 h, while awakeness time for the same night sleep increased to 2.7 h. Also in AD, the REM and the slow wave stage (SWS) during sleep are shorter and hypopnea and apnea phases are abundant. Internal body temperature during night sleep is only slightly increased in AD, while in temporofrontal dementia and in normal individuals this increase is significant. The circadian rhythm of melatonin is disturbed in AD. The normal duration of inspiration and expiration during daytime which is reversed during normal night sleep, has not been studied in patients with AD. However, this reverse condition favoring inspiration is expected to provide more oxygen to the brain. Chronic but not acute stress causes memory loss and is currently being studied by us as a possible causative factor for memory loss in AD. Tomographic SPET and PET brain studies can locate the site of brain damage in AD. This is important since memory has recently been classified into four categories, namely episodic, semantic, procedural and working memory. In early AD only procedural memory remains intact. This means that these patients may drive a car, do computer word processing and play some games at home or/and in the field. This memory is located in specific nuclei in the cerebellum and the occipital frontal area which do not relate to sites of other kinds of memory. This difference could be well identified by tomographic SPET or PET studies. Thus NM may also diagnose the early stage of AD. Another issue refers to the indications that the unified Medicare and Medicaid system in the USA has issued on September 15, 2004 for performing a PET (18)F-FDG study for AD. These indications are fully described in this editorial."}
{"id": "15853870", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography perfusion imaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia: a retrospective regional audit.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography perfusion imaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia: a retrospective regional audit. A retrospective audit of (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT scans was undertaken to assess the utility of brain perfusion imaging in a cohort of young cognitively impaired patients in whom diagnostic uncertainty remained after standard clinical and neuropsychological assessment and structural brain imaging. SPECT scans were assessed by five raters (two neurologists and three nuclear medicine specialists) on two occasions 6 months apart, first without any clinical data and second with brief pertinent clinical information. SPECT diagnoses were compared with criterion diagnoses subsequently established by the two neurologists with access to all clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging data. Despite reasonable intra- and interrater reliability, diagnostic accuracy ranged from 32 to 58%. SPECT scan normality or abnormality in blind and informed viewings gave respective sensitivities of 77 and 71%, specificities of 44 and 38%, positive predictive values of 88 and 87% and negative predictive values of 27 and 18%. Calculating pairwise disease group comparisons, likelihood ratios suggested some diagnostic gain in differentiating AD from 'not AD' and from FTD/focal syndromes. SPECT scanning was of little help in establishing diagnoses in this cohort of patients, a finding which supports the conclusion of the American Academy of Neurology evidence-based review that SPECT imaging cannot be recommended for either the initial or the differential diagnosis of suspected dementia because it has not demonstrated superiority to clinical criteria."}
{"id": "15851069", "title": "Imaginem oblivionis: the prospects of neuroimaging for early detection of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaginem oblivionis: the prospects of neuroimaging for early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterised by the gradual onset of dementia. The pathological hallmarks of the disease are A beta amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and reactive gliosis. Current diagnosis of AD is made by clinical, neuropsychologic, and neuroimaging assessments. Routine structural neuroimaging evaluation is based on non-specific features such as atrophy, a late feature in the progression of the disease, hence the crucial importance of developing new approaches for early and specific recognition at the prodromal stages of AD. Functional neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) could prove to be valuable in the differential diagnosis of AD, as well as in assessing prognosis. With the advent of new therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing the A beta amyloid burden in the brain, there is increasing interest in the development of PET and SPECT radioligands that will permit the assessment of A beta amyloid burden in vivo. From this, the prospect of specific preclinical diagnosis arises, possibly in conjunction with other related A beta biomarkers in plasma and CSF."}
{"id": "15845094", "title": "Regional cortical blood flow changes following sodium lactate infusion in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cortical blood flow changes following sodium lactate infusion in Alzheimer's disease. Bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion is a characteristic single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) finding in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Lactate is a metabolic vasodilator and is known to provoke increased cerebral blood flow (CBF) in healthy adults. This work investigated whether lactate, which is present in high concentrations in AD cerebrospinal fluid, affects AD-specific perfusion abnormalities. Twenty mild-to-moderately demented AD probands participated in the self-controlled study. The regional CBF was examined utilizing (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT after sodium lactate infusion (0.5 M, 5 mL/kg body weight) and 0.9% NaCl infusion, one on each of two separate days. Despite the vasodilatator effects of sodium lactate, AD rCBF patterns did not show increase in temporo-parietal regions after its infusion. AD-specific bi-temporo-parietal reduction in CBF was accompanied by further hypoperfusion in the parieto-occipital areas after the sodium lactate infusion in seven patients, while no CBF changes were observed in the case of the remaining 13 probands. The pattern of the CBF abnormalities was not correlated with the apolipoprotein E genotype. The decreased vascular responsiveness to sodium lactate reflects disturbed vasoregulatory processes in AD and it is unlikely that lactate would have any relevance in the treatment of AD-related cerebral hypoperfusion, but could be used to improve the value of perfusion SPECT in the diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "15832032", "title": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using brain SPECT.", "content": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using brain SPECT. We compared regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) patterns in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and investigated the diagnostic utility of SPECT study in differentiating between DLB and AD. SPECT data on 20 patients with DLB and 75 patients with AD were analyzed using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections. Regional CBF reduction was determined by quantitative analysis using stereotactic extraction estimation method. The DLB group showed a significant CBF reduction in the temporoparietal, frontal lobe and posterior cingulate, similar to the CBF pattern in the AD group, but regional CBF in the medial and lateral occipital lobes decreased significantly in patients with DLB compared with patients with AD. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that regional CBF measurement of the medial occipital lobe, including the cuneus and lingual gyrus, yielded a sensitivity of 85% and a specificity of 85% in discriminating DLB from AD. Objective and quantitative CBF measurement in the medial occipital lobe may be useful in the clinical differentiation of DLB and AD."}
{"id": "15832030", "title": "Cognitive reserve: a SPECT study of 132 Alzheimer's disease patients with an education range of 0-19 years.", "content": "Cognitive reserve: a SPECT study of 132 Alzheimer's disease patients with an education range of 0-19 years. This study examines the associations between education, cerebral perfusion, and cognitive test performance among 132 patients with Alzheimer's disease. The participants had had between 0 and 19 years of formal schooling, and had either mild or moderate dementia according to the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale. Cerebral perfusion was evaluated by the (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime single photon emission computed tomography. The Mini-Mental State Examination and the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument were used to assess cognitive performance. For patients at each clinical dementia severity level, statistical parametric mapping was used to examine voxel by voxel the association between education and cerebral perfusion, and Pearson's correlation coefficients were calculated between education and cognitive test scores. Years of formal schooling had negative associations with cerebral perfusion and positive associations with cognitive test scores. The brain regions showing a significant education effect on perfusion involved bilateral posterior association areas in mild dementia, and bilateral parieto-temporo-frontal areas in moderate dementia. The present findings indicate that the cognitive reserve effect starts at the low end of the education range. They also suggest that the main effect of more education is a more facile use of alternative brain circuits instead of locally increased synaptic connections."}
{"id": "15829632", "title": "Torsin-mediated protection from cellular stress in the dopaminergic neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans.", "content": "Torsin-mediated protection from cellular stress in the dopaminergic neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans. Parkinson's disease (PD) is linked genetically to proteins that function in the management of cellular stress resulting from protein misfolding and oxidative damage. Overexpression or mutation of alpha-synuclein results in the formation of Lewy bodies and neurodegeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Human torsinA, mutations in which cause another movement disorder termed early-onset torsion dystonia, is highly expressed in DA neurons and is also a component of Lewy bodies. Previous work has established torsins as having molecular chaperone activity. Thus, we examined the ability of torsinA to manage cellular stress within DA neurons of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Worm DA neurons undergo a reproducible pattern of neurodegeneration after treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a neurotoxin commonly used to model PD. Overexpression of torsins in C. elegans DA neurons results in dramatic suppression of neurodegeneration after 6-OHDA treatment. In contrast, expression of either dystonia-associated mutant torsinA or combined overexpression of wild-type and mutant torsinA yielded greatly diminished neuroprotection against 6-OHDA. We further demonstrated that torsins seem to protect DA neurons from 6-OHDA through downregulating protein levels of the dopamine transporter (DAT-1) in vivo. Additionally, we determined that torsins protect robustly against DA neurodegeneration caused by overexpression of alpha-synuclein. Using mutant nematodes lacking DAT-1 function, we also showed that torsin neuroprotection from alpha-synuclein-induced degeneration occurs in a manner independent of this transporter. Together, these data have mechanistic implications for movement disorders, because our results demonstrate that torsin proteins have the capacity to manage sources of cellular stress within DA neurons."}
{"id": "15806567", "title": "Three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection SPECT analysis in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia.", "content": "Three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection SPECT analysis in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. We investigated regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) analysis in 30 patients initially diagnosed as Parkinson's disease (PD), and compared differences in rCBF between patients with and without PD-related manifestations. 3D-SSP analysis of cerebral perfusion was performed by use of a control database. Compared to age-matched controls, there were multiple hypoperfusion areas in cases where the original diagnosis was PD. Temporal bases showed the lowest perfusion; frontal bases and medial parietal lobes the second; visual cortices the third; and parietal association areas exhibited the fourth lowest. During the clinical course, 10 of the patients suffered dementia, 9 had fluctuating cognition, and 19 experienced repeated visual hallucinations. Significant negative correlations were observed between dementia and the bilateral posterior cingulate area, and among fluctuating cognition and bilateral medial parietal lobes, parietal association areas, and dorsal occipital lobes. Repeated visual hallucinations did not show any correlation with any region of interest. We concluded that multiple hypoperfusion areas were observed in the 3D-SSP SPECT analysis. Although the presence of dementia showed a significant relationship with the bilateral posterior cingulate areas, perfusion in the frontal bases, temporal bases, or parietal lobes was markedly more reduced than that seen in the bilateral posterior cingulate areas."}
{"id": "15804924", "title": "Years of severe and isolated amnesia can precede the development of dementia in early-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Years of severe and isolated amnesia can precede the development of dementia in early-onset Alzheimer's disease. A young patient with a severe and isolated memory disorder, meeting the criteria for MCI, was followed for a period of 8 years. His overall functional level remained stable with a CDR-score at 0.5 until the last year when it dropped to 1.0. Neuropsychological testing showed severe memory deficits but otherwise normal cognitive functions. Only minimal progression was measured; however, the last testing showed impaired abstraction and executive functioning as well as discrete problems generating names of objects and people. Neuroimaging, with MRI and SPECT, was consistent with a progressive degenerative disorder, and cerebrospinal fluid levels of beta-amyloid 1-42, tau protein, and phosphorylated tau protein were characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We argue that this is a case of prodromal AD, which illustrates an extreme version of the normal course with respect to slow progression of the disease and severity of amnesia early in the course."}
{"id": "15802915", "title": "Neural correlates of impaired performance on the clock drawing test in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neural correlates of impaired performance on the clock drawing test in Alzheimer's disease. To identify the neural correlates for impaired performance on the clock drawing test (CDT) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined the relationship between the CDT performances and the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 100 AD patients. The patients were equally divided into a mildly impaired CDT group, a severely impaired CDT group, and two normal CDT groups, with age and dementia severity matched. Between-group comparisons revealed that rCBF reduction in the posterolateral region of the left temporal lobe was consistently associated with mild to severe impairment of the CDT in AD. Correlation analysis also showed that the rCBF in the left posterolateral temporal cortex was linearly correlated with CDT performance. The CDT scores in AD were significantly improved for the copy condition relative to the drawing-to-command condition. These findings suggest that CDT performance has a close relationship with the left posterior temporal function, and that semantic memory deficit may at least partly contribute to impaired CDT performance in AD."}
{"id": "15775716", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease according to three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection imaging.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease according to three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection imaging. Regional brain perfusion was analyzed using single-photon emission computed tomography with three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3D-SSP) in 69 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), 16 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and 15 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and compared with that in 24 age-equivalent normal subjects. Nondemented PD patients revealed less parietal and frontal flow than controls. With mental impairment, flow reduction extended to other areas including occipital regions. PD with dementia and DLB showed similar reduction patterns, although frontal flow showed a greater reduction in DLB. AD showed little occipital reduction, but a severe parieto-temporal reduction. Thus, 3D-SSP appears to be useful in the detection of cortical lesions and the differential diagnosis of patients with cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "15765320", "title": "[Semantic dementia: a case report].", "content": "[Semantic dementia: a case report]."}
{"id": "15765193", "title": "Recurrent spontaneous \"neuroleptic malignant syndrome\" in the absence of neuroleptic medication in probable dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Recurrent spontaneous \"neuroleptic malignant syndrome\" in the absence of neuroleptic medication in probable dementia with Lewy bodies."}
{"id": "15760648", "title": "Non-human primate SPECT model for determining cerebral perfusion effects of cerebrovasoactive drugs acting via multiple modes of pharmacological action.", "content": "Non-human primate SPECT model for determining cerebral perfusion effects of cerebrovasoactive drugs acting via multiple modes of pharmacological action. Increasing clinical and experimental evidence implicate cerebral hypoperfusion during increased ageing and points to chronic cerebrovascular ischemia as a vital component of the neuropathological progression of dementia. In vivo cerebral perfusion animal models can greatly contribute to the evaluation of drugs and to the screening of drug interactions. This study describes a baboon Papio ursinus model under anaesthesia, for in vivo cerebral blood flow (CBF) determinations, using Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) following the split-dose method with 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO). Perfusion studies with acetazolamide as intervention clearly showed that the non-human primate model under aneasthesia is sufficiently sensitive to serve in the evaluation of other cerebrovasoactive drugs for induced perfusion changes with significant increases of the R-value (+40%) for comparative measurement when compared to the control value (2.53+/-0.15 vs. 1.79+/-0.13). These findings stimulated investigations of several drugs, i.e. pentifylline (phosphodiesterase inhibitor); nimodipine (calcium channel blocker); sumatriptan (serotonin receptor agonist) and nicotinic acid (vasodilator) for CBF effects. Increases in the cerebral perfusion in some cases more than +30% for nimodipine (2.51+/-0.14 vs. 1.79+/-0.13), acetazolamide and +29% for the combination of pentifylline and nicotinic acid (2.31+/-0.19 vs. 1.79+/-0.13) were observed. Drug interaction studies revealed an attenuation of increased CBF due to nimodipine, with sumatriptan (-25%) and acetazolamide (+22%) in combination with nimodipine. Drug interactions with clinical implications may result during simultaneous use of cerebrovasoactive drugs in managing patients with cerebrovascular disorders. This study further showed that the CBF non-human primate model under anaesthesia is useful for the investigation of vasoactive drugs acting via various pharmacological modes of action."}
{"id": "15760620", "title": "Understanding the pathology of vascular cognitive impairment.", "content": "Understanding the pathology of vascular cognitive impairment. The prevalence, morphology and pathogenesis of vascular dementia (VaD), recently termed vascular cognitive impairment (VCI), and of mixed dementia (Alzheimer disease+vascular encephalopathy) are a matter of discussion and no validated neuropathologic criteria for these disorders are currently available. In Western memory clinic-based series, VaD/CVI is suggested in 8-10% of cognitively impaired elderly; its prevalence in autopsy series ranges from 0.03% to 58% (mean 5-15%). Fairly unusual as an isolated nosological entity, CVI appears to correlate with focal, multifocal or diffuse cortical and/or subcortical microinfarcts and lacunes often affecting strategically important brain areas (thalamus, frontobasal, limbic system), hemispheric white matter and, less often, large brain areas. They result from systemic, cardiac or local large or small vessel disease. The lesion pattern in \"pure\" VCI with predominant multiple small (subcortical) lesions related to microangiopathies differs from that in \"mixed dementia\" (AD+VaD), more often associated with large infarcts, suggesting different pathogenesis. In very old subjects, selective hippocampal sclerosis may be accompanied by multiple other vascular pathologies. Minor cerebrovascular lesions (CVL), except for severe amyloid angiopathy, appear not essential for cognitive decline in full-blown AD, while both mild AD-type pathology and small vessel disease may interact synergistically in \"unmasking\" or promoting dementia. AD pathology is significantly less severe in the presence of cerebrovascular lesions. Further studies are needed to validate diagnostic criteria for VCI and to clarify the impact of vascular lesions on cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "15754090", "title": "Discrepancy between clinical and pathological diagnoses of CBD and PSP.", "content": "Discrepancy between clinical and pathological diagnoses of CBD and PSP. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD) are often clinically confused with each other. Moreover, the discrepancy between clinical and pathological diagnoses of CBD and PSP are still controversial. We report here two atypical cases of PSP and CBD. A 73-year old woman was admitted with right hand rigidity, limb kinetic apraxia and cortical sensory loss. Brain atrophy, hypoperfusion and hypometabolism predominantly in the left frontoparietal lobes indicated CBD clinically. Pathological studies revealed neuronal loss and spongy change without ballooned neurons (BN) in the cerebral cortex. Modified Gallyas-Braak (G-B) staining revealed neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and tufted astrocytes, indicating pathological diagnosis of PSP. A 75-year-old man admitted with vertical gaze palsy, neck dystonia, parkinsonism and dementia. Atrophy of the frontal lobes and tegmentum of the midbrain and symmetrical frontal hypoperfusion in SPECT indicated PSP. However, neuronal loss and BN in the frontal lobes and clusters of astrocytic plaques indicated CBD pathologically. The G-B staining was useful for differentiating between CBD and PSP, but our atypical cases bring up a new issue about differential diagnosis of CBD and PSP."}
{"id": "15750828", "title": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in dementia.", "content": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in dementia."}
{"id": "15728285", "title": "Clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. No method for the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) has been established except for pathologic examination. To identify a reliable marker for the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sCJD. CSF, EEG, and neuroimaging studies were performed in eight patients with MM2-type sCJD confirmed by neuropathologic, genetic, and western blot analyses. The eight cases were pathologically classified into the cortical (n = 2), thalamic (n = 5), and combined (corticothalamic) (n = 1) forms. The cortical form was characterized by late-onset, slowly progressive dementia, cortical hyperintensity signals on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) of brain, and elevated levels of CSF 14-3-3 protein. The thalamic form showed various neurologic manifestations including dementia, ataxia, and pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs with onset at various ages and relatively long disease duration. Characteristic EEG and MRI abnormalities were almost absent. However, all four patients examined with cerebral blood flow (CBF) study using SPECT showed reduction of the CBF in the thalamus as well as the cerebral cortex. The combined form had features of both the cortical and the thalamic forms, showing cortical hyperintensity signals on DWI and hypometabolism of the thalamus on [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET. For the clinical diagnosis of MM2-type sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, cortical hyperintensity signals on diffusion-weighted MRI are useful for the cortical form and thalamic hypoperfusion or hypometabolism on cerebral blood flow SPECT or [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET for the thalamic form."}
{"id": "15722899", "title": "Emission tomography in dementia.", "content": "Emission tomography in dementia. Dementia is a chronic brain syndrome with enormous impact on health care provision. Emission tomography (single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET)) provides a unique tool to investigate functional and neurochemical changes, both in those with established dementia and in those at risk of subsequent cognitive decline. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion on SPECT and hypometabolism on PET, which may precede the onset of dementia as similar changes can be demonstrated in those with mild cognitive impairment and in those genetically at risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In dementia with Lewy bodies medial parietal and occipital perfusion deficits are seen together with pre-synaptic and post-synaptic dopaminergic changes, most particularly a reduction in the striatal pre-synaptic dopamine transporter which can be visualized using appropriate ligands (e.g., (123)I-FP-CIT). Vascular dementia is associated with multiple, asymmetric, perfusion deficits in multi-infarct dementia. In contrast, subcortical vascular dementia is associated with reduced perfusion but preserved oxygen extraction fraction on PET. Fronto-temporal dementia is characterized by both hypometabolism and hypoperfusion in fronto-temporal lobes, though hypometabolism appears more extensive, affecting large areas of the cerebral hemispheres. Longitudinal studies of treatment response in Alzheimer's disease with cholinergic drugs have found changes in regional blood flow and nicotinic and muscarinic receptor function in those patients who respond to treatment. Currently, emission tomography is widely used for assisting with clinical differential diagnosis. Future developments will entail the development and application of more specific neurochemical ligands and those which bear a closer relationship to the underlying disease processes, including markers of tau, amyloid and synuclein pathology."}
{"id": "15722897", "title": "Editorial: symposium on nuclear imaging in dementia and depression.", "content": "Editorial: symposium on nuclear imaging in dementia and depression."}
{"id": "15717342", "title": "Cognitive and functional neuroimaging correlate for anosognosia in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognitive and functional neuroimaging correlate for anosognosia in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the correlation between anosognosia and behavioural symptoms, performance on executive tests, and frontal cortex regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with 'amnestic mild cognitive impairment' (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). From a prospective Memory Clinic cohort including consecutively referred patients, age 60 years or above, and with MMSE score 20 or above, 36 patients with AD and 30 with MCI were included in this study. Anosognosia was assessed using a categorical scale and discrepancy scores between patients' and relatives' reports on a 20-item Memory Questionnaire (MQ). Behavioural symptoms were assessed with Frontal Behavioural Inventory (FBI). Executive functions were examined with a range of neuropsychological tests. Tc99m-HMPAO SPECT was obtained in an unselected sample of 55 of the 66 patients, and rCBF was analysed in six cortical frontal regions. Insight was equally impaired in the two patient groups. A significant correlation was found between impaired awareness and dementia severity (MMSE). Discrepancy-scores on the MQ were significantly correlated to scores on FBI and to rCBF in the right inferior frontal gyrus, but not to executive tests. The groups classified by the categorical ratings 'full', 'shallow' and 'no' awareness were not characterized by differences in behavioural symptoms, executive performance or frontal rCBF. Impaired awareness is associated with behavioural symptoms and may reflect functional impairment in the right inferior frontal cortex."}
{"id": "15654026", "title": "The cerebral correlates of different types of perseveration in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test.", "content": "The cerebral correlates of different types of perseveration in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. To explore the neural substrates corresponding to the perseverative errors in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). The study examined the correlations between the WCST performances and the SPECT measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in subjects with neurodegenerative dementia. Negative non-linear correlations between the rCBF and the two different types of the perseverative errors (\"stuck-in-set\" and \"recurrent\" perseverative errors) were calculated on a voxel basis and volume-of-interest basis in the mixed groups of 72 elderly and dementia patients. The stuck-in-set perseverative error was associated with the reduced rCBF in the rostrodorsal prefrontal cortex, whereas the recurrent perseverative error was related to the left parietal activity but not to the prefrontal activity. These findings augment evidence that the rostrodorsal prefrontal cortex crucially mediates attentional set shifting, and suggest that the stuck-in-set perseverative errors would be a true pathognomonic sign of frontal dysfunction. Moreover, this study shows that the recurrent perseverative errors may not be associated closely with the prefrontal function, suggesting that this error and the stuck-in-set error should be differentially estimated in the WCST."}
{"id": "15375677", "title": "Combined 123I-FP-CIT and 123I-IBZM SPECT for the diagnosis of parkinsonian syndromes: study on 72 patients.", "content": "Combined 123I-FP-CIT and 123I-IBZM SPECT for the diagnosis of parkinsonian syndromes: study on 72 patients. 72 consecutive patients with suspected parkinsonian syndromes (PS) were studied by dopamine transporter (DAT) and D2 receptor SPECT in order to evaluate the accuracy of combined SPECT imaging. In the follow-up, the patients were diagnosed as having Parkinson's disease (PD, n = 25), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB, n = 6), multiple system atrophy (MSA, n = 13), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP, n = 8), corticobasal degeneration (CBD, n = 9), and essential tremor (ET, n = 11). Using the iteratively estimated optimal cutoffs, DAT was reduced in 57/61 PS patients, whereas all ET patients were identified as \"normal\". Reduced D2 receptor binding had 7/13 patients with MSA, 6/8 patients with PSP, 2/9 patients with CBD and no ET, PD or DLB patients. FP-CIT SPECT allows an accurate detection of nigrostriatal affection in neurodegenerative PS. IBZM SPECT is useful to approve the diagnosis of PSP and MSA although a normal finding cannot exclude an atypical PS. IBZM SPECT seems to be of restricted value in CBD."}
{"id": "16903140", "title": "Clinical findings and diagnostic tests in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Clinical findings and diagnostic tests in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) is a rare transmissible disease caused by accumulation of pathological prion protein in the CNS. sCJD typically affects patients in their sixties. The median disease duration in sCJD (6 months) is shorter than in variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) (14 months). The clinical diagnosis in sCJD is supported by the detection of periodic sharp and slow wave complexes (PSWC) in the electroencephalogram, 14-3-3 proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and hyperintense basal ganglia on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In contrast to sCJD, hyperintensities in the posterior pulvinar (the \"pulvinar sign\") are seen in vCJD. Different sCJD subtypes characterised by distinct neuropathological lesion profiles, clinical features and codon 129 genotype of the prion protein gene (PRNP) are described, together with the type with a proteinase K-resistant core of the prion protein. The sensitivity of diagnostic tests varies considerably in different sCJD subtypes. Alzheimer 's disease and Lewy body dementia are the most frequent differential diagnoses in elderly patients, while chronic inflammatory CNS disorders have to be considered in younger patients."}
{"id": "16041289", "title": "Pathological aging of the brain: an overview.", "content": "Pathological aging of the brain: an overview. The number of elderly people is increasing rapidly and, therefore, an increase in neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disorders causing dementia is expected. Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Vascular dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, and frontotemporal dementia are the most frequent causes after AD, but a large proportion of patients have a combination of degenerative and vascular brain pathology. Characteristic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings can contribute to the identification of different diseases causing dementia. The MR imaging protocol should include axial T2-weighted images (T2-WI), axial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) or proton density-weighted images, and axial gradient-echo T2*-weighted images, for the detection of cerebrovascular pathology. Structural neuroimaging in dementia is focused on detection of brain atrophy, especially in the medial temporal lobe, for which coronal high resolution T1-weighted images perpendicular to the long axis of the temporal lobe are extremely important. Single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography may have added value in the diagnosis of dementia and may become more important in the future, due to the development of radioligands for in vivo detection of AD pathology. New functional MR techniques and serial volumetric imaging studies to identify subtle brain abnormalities may also provide surrogate markers for pathologic processes that occur in diseases causing dementia and, in conjunction with clinical evaluation, may enable a more rigorous and early diagnosis, approaching the accuracy of neuropathology."}
{"id": "15975069", "title": "New approaches in nuclear medicine for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "New approaches in nuclear medicine for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) being the most common cause of it, is a major and growing medical and social problem, particularly in the advanced age, with the highest rate in the population over 75 y. Recent sophisticated therapeutic measures require more sensitive diagnostic tests to recognize early stages of the disease. In this paper, the current neuronuclear imaging literature is reviewed with regard to early and differential diagnosis of dementia. Functional imaging with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) could provide the clinician with additional information complementary to morphological assessments, thus contributing to achieve a more adequate diagnosis, and also with information regarding prodromal stages of AD."}
{"id": "15738860", "title": "[Awareness of deficits and anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Awareness of deficits and anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease]. This article reviews studies concerning unawareness of deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Unawareness of the deficits associated with dementia has frequently been reported in clinical descriptions of the later stages of the disease. Consistent with the literature, we shall use the expressions impaired awareness, unawareness of deficits, anosognosia, and lack of insight interchangeably. Anosognosia can be defined as an impaired ability to recognize the presence or appreciate the severity of deficits in sensory, perceptual, motor, affective, or cognitive functioning. Unawareness has been operationally defined in a variety of ways. Unawareness can be measured as the discrepancy between the patient's self-report and the report of a natural caregiver or the clinical rating of a health care professional. The reports generally concern with several domains, most often memory domain. Discrepancy between subjective ratings and neuropsychological performance during clinical assessment has also been used to measure anosognosia. Advantages, limits and equivalence of these different methods are discussed. The impact of family burden has to be considered as a systematic methodological bias if the natural caregiver is implicated in the assessment. The psychometric properties of the clinical assessment have also to be discussed. The psychological nature of the discrepancy between patient's self-report and cognitive performances has to be analyzed and the necessity of ecological protocols, longitudinal assessment is discussed. The major results concerning prevalence, nature of anosognosia and the associated disorders are analyzed. In particular, the notion of heterogeneity of anosognosia and the correlates with depression, severity of dementia and executive dysfunction are developed. Prevalence is largely function of methodological choices and conceptual definition of anosognosia. Three major researches are compared and the contrast between their results (prevalence from 23% to 75% in AD) is analyzed. Particularly, the hypotheses about anosognosia play a great role in the findings. At first time of research, anosognosia was considered as a general symptom and so, studies were centered on the unawareness related to only one cognitive function. But the 90's findings suggest that patients with AD have impaired awareness for some types of deficits (affective or cognitive functions) but can more accurately appraise other deficits. Currently anosognosia cannot be considered as a unitary entity. It may be that patients with AD are unaware of some types of deficits, but are aware of others, and that nature and intensity of their anosognosia may change during the course of the dementia. It has been proposed that depression is more common when disease is mild and awareness of deficits is retained, and that depression becomes less common when disease increases and awareness declines. Depression is conceived as a psychological reaction. However, the correlations between anosognosia level and depression scores reveal either weak relationships or no relationships. Alternative hypothesis is that anosognosia is related to overall dementia severity and to memory impairment. However, correlations of unawareness of deficits, i.e. the difference between self-report and relative's -rating, with a measure of dementia and with patient's performance on objective memory tasks did not reveal strong, consistent relationships between degree of anosognosia and severity of dementia or of memory impairment. On the other hand, the best neuropsychological predictors of impaired insight are Trail Making Test or Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, i.e. tests that have been shown to be sensitive to a frontal lobe dysfunction. SPECT measures of regional cerebral blood flow have been used in the study of anosognosia. The main findings are that unawareness in AD is associated with hypoperfusion of the right dorsolateral frontal lobe. Anosognosia may result from the disruption of broader cognitive process that is subsumed by the frontal lobes. The mechanisms of unawareness are not well known and studies are essentially descriptive works and try to give information about pre-valence or clinical associated disorders of anosognosia. Several authors have proposed that unawareness is part of a defensive mechanism that would protect demented patients from depressive feelings. Other authors have proposed that anosognosia may result from dysfunction in specific brain areas. It is suggested that anosognosia in AD may result from greater impairment of a central executive system, which is a metacognitive structure that is involved in planning, cognitive resource allocation, and set shifting. The main problem with those both major hypotheses is their incapacity to explain the heterogeneous impairment of awareness. Other authors speculate that the impaired insight of Alzheimer's disease has several components, psychological and neuropsychological. This view doesn't seem convincing and new components have to be taken in account in order to propose a theoretical framework about anosognosia in AD. Environmental and dispositional components and an interactional view could be interesting. Those possible directions for future research and solutions concerning methodological and conceptual problems are outlined. In particular, a neuro-psycho-social view of unawareness is introduced."}
{"id": "15729885", "title": "[An autopsy case of dementia with Lewy bodies which was clinically suspected to be Parkinson's disease complicated with Alzheimer-type dementia].", "content": "[An autopsy case of dementia with Lewy bodies which was clinically suspected to be Parkinson's disease complicated with Alzheimer-type dementia]."}
{"id": "15729440", "title": "[Neurocognitive assessment in alcohol abuse and dependence: implications for treatment].", "content": "[Neurocognitive assessment in alcohol abuse and dependence: implications for treatment]. The aim of the Neuropsychology applied to the Alcohol Dependence field is the comprehension of the effects of brain dysfunction on cognition and human behavior. It investigates neurocognitive impairments and associates them to structural and functional neuroimaging findings (CT, MRI, PET and SPECT). Acute use of alcohol impairs attention, memory, executive functions and visuospatial skills, while chronic abuse causes neurocognitive deficits in memory, learning, visuospatial functions, psychomotor speed processing, executive functions and decision-making, and may lead to persistent amnesic disorder and alcoholic dementia. Executive Dysfunction related to frontal lobe has direct implications on treatment, by the choosing of strategies and for prognostic evaluation. It is presented an easy tool to screen cognitive impairments, the Frontal Assessment Battery--FAB.15. Neuropsychological Assessment is useful for early detection of impairments and evaluation of their evolution and Cognitive Rehabilitation has a significant role on deficits recovery and psychosocial adjustment of these patients."}
{"id": "15717021", "title": "Molecular neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Molecular neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease. Considerable data exist to support the use of positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning as biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The techniques are reasonably sensitive and specific in differentiating AD from normal aging, and recent studies with pathological confirmation show good sensitivity and specificity in differentiating AD from other dementias. These techniques also can detect abnormalities in groups of asymptomatic and presymptomatic individuals and may be able to predict decline to dementia. However, there are a number of existing questions related to the use of these techniques in samples that are fully representative of the spectrum of patients with dementia. For example, it is unclear how well PET and SPECT perform in comparison to a clinical diagnosis obtained in the same patient group, when autopsy is used as a gold standard. It will also be important to know what PET and SPECT add to the certainty of diagnosis in addition to the standard clinical diagnosis. Despite these unanswered questions, PET and SPECT may have application as biomarkers for AD in a number of clinical and research settings, especially in academic centers, where most of the existing studies have been done."}
{"id": "15702655", "title": "[Neuroimaging of Alzheimer disease: current role and future potential].", "content": "[Neuroimaging of Alzheimer disease: current role and future potential]. Alzheimer disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, associated with deterioration in cognition and behaviour. With the availability of newer drugs for symptoms treatments there is a general agreement to the need of an early diagnosis and an the development of new sensitive tools, to identify and/or monitor early cerebral changes, suggestive for AD. CT and MRI are recommended for routine evaluation, in order to exclude treatable causes of dementia and to exactly evaluate the degree of cerebral atrophy and the presence of parenchymal signal abnormalities. Functional imaging, including PET, SPECT and functional MR techniques, are able to investigate physiological cerebral function, such as blood perfusion, metabolism, activation, molecular composition and water diffusibility, and have the potential to detect subtle pathological changes earlier during course of disease. MRI can provide both an accurate morphological assessment and a functional evaluation. Further investigations are needed to precisely define which will be the role of the different MR techniques. Most likely an exhaustive evaluation of AD will include information obtained by conventional and functional imaging, combined with clinical, laboratory and genetic findings."}
{"id": "15654671", "title": "[The effect of rivastigmine on cognitive functions and regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: follow-up for 2 years].", "content": "[The effect of rivastigmine on cognitive functions and regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: follow-up for 2 years]. The aim of the work was to investigate the effect of treatment with rivastigmine, one of the inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE-I) on the regional cerebral perfusion (rCBF) and the cognitive functions of the brain in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Vascular Dementia (VaD). The investigations of rCBF were carried out using SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography). The results given concern investigations of patients carried out at the onset of the investigation, after 12 months, and 24 months of rivastigmine treatment. In patients with AD it was found that treatment with rivastigmine increases rCBF by 5-7% in the temporal areas during the first 12 months. In the frontal areas the increase was by 3-5%. During the next 12 months rCBF with an accuracy of 2% returned to the initial level, with the exception of the motor cortex, where it remained on the level increased by 5-6%. However, the cognitive functions remained constant during the first 12 months of treatment and decreased significantly during the next 12 months. In patients with VaD rCBF increased in all the regions of the brain except for the temporal posterior regions, and remained at an elevated level for the next 12 months. The cognitive functions deteriorated slowly, but to a much lesser degree than in the case of AD. From the investigations carried out it follows that treatment with rivastigmine during 24 months prevents a decrease of rCBF in patients with AD. However, the cognitive functions deteriorate after 24 months."}
{"id": "15623735", "title": "Leber hereditary optic neuropathy with chorea and dementia resembling Huntington disease.", "content": "Leber hereditary optic neuropathy with chorea and dementia resembling Huntington disease."}
{"id": "15592735", "title": "Cognitive and SPECT characteristics predict progression of Parkinson's disease in newly diagnosed patients.", "content": "Cognitive and SPECT characteristics predict progression of Parkinson's disease in newly diagnosed patients. To identify features in cognitive functioning and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in newly diagnosed Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and to determine whether these factors are able to predict the progression of the disease in general and the development of cognitive decline in particular. 50 previously treatment-naive PD patients participated in the study. Cognitive assessment and SPECT were performed twice: at the time of diagnosis and then 3 years later. Six patients died or refused to continue. The Mattis dementia rating scale, the WAIS-R digit span test, a word list learning/recall test, a word fluency task and the Stroop word-colour test were used to assess cognitive function. rCBF was measured in 10 pairs of regions of interest. Principal component analysis of the data from the final examination was used to determine which variables allowed the formation of patient subgroups. Thereafter, factorial discriminant analysis (FDA) was performed in order to obtain a predictive model of these final classes. A stepwise procedure enabled the identification of 3 clusters (26, 16 and 2 patients). As the patients in the smallest cluster met the criteria for dementia at the final examination, they were discarded from further analyses. All the cognitive variables contributed to the constitution of the two other clusters. Age, educational level and all the rCBF parameters also contributed but to a lesser extent. Comparison of these groups showed reduced overall cognitive efficiency and an exacerbated subcorticofrontal syndrome in the 16-patient cluster. FDA showed that the best predictive model for the final classes was based on 7 variables: educational level, semantic and alternating word fluency, Stroop interference index and the right medial frontal, left parietal and left lenticular nucleus rCBF findings. Even though both cognitive and rCBF parameters help predict the progression of newly diagnosed PD patients and bearing in mind the limitations of the SPECT method used here, it appears that the contribution of cognitive assessment is greater than that of rCBF measurement."}
{"id": "15592140", "title": "Novel PS1 mutation in a Bavarian kindred with familial Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Novel PS1 mutation in a Bavarian kindred with familial Alzheimer disease. We describe a novel Leu174Arg PS1 mutation in two members of a Bavarian family which were initially diagnosed with frontotemporal dementia. Intriguingly, there is the possibility that there is an 18th century founder effect and that this family is related to original kindreds with familial Alzheimer disease described in the early 20th century."}
{"id": "15585477", "title": "Quantitative SPECT leads to improved performance in discrimination tasks related to prodromal Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantitative SPECT leads to improved performance in discrimination tasks related to prodromal Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the impact of the quantitation and reconstruction protocol on clinical tasks. The performance of standard clinical reconstruction procedures in discrimination tasks related to the diagnosis of prodromal Alzheimer's disease (AD) was compared with the performance of a quantitative approach incorporating improved corrections for scatter, attenuation, intrinsic spatial resolution, and distance-dependent spatial resolution. Seventeen normal controls (normal group), 56 subjects who did not have dementia, who did have memory problems, but who did not develop AD within 5 y of follow-up (questionable group), and 27 subjects who did not have dementia, who did have memory problems, and who did develop AD over the follow-up period (converter group) were considered in this study. (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime SPECT and MRI studies were performed for each subject at baseline. The standard quantitation protocol (STD), routinely used in our clinic, consisted of Compton window scatter correction followed by filtered backprojection with attenuation correction using a uniform attenuation map. In the improved quantitative approach (QUAN), projections were corrected for scatter by use of a general spectral method and reconstructed by use of ordered-subset(s) expectation maximization, incorporating corrections for collimator response and attenuation using both a uniform attenuation map (QUANunif) and a nonuniform attenuation map (QUANnonunif). Mean SPECT activity concentration and MRI volume were estimated for 7 structures: rostral anterior cingulate gyrus, caudal anterior cingulate gyrus, posterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, basal forebrain, amygdala, and the banks of the superior temporal sulcus. Data were analyzed by pairwise discriminant analysis, and performance in binary group discrimination was measured by correlated receiver-operating-characteristic analysis. The use of QUANnonunif yielded a small but systematic improvement in discrimination accuracy for normal versus converter groups (accuracy or area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve [Az], 0.965), normal versus questionable groups (Az, 0.973), and questionable versus converter groups (Az, 0.881) compared with the results obtained with QUANunif (Az, 0.955, 0.962, and 0.866, respectively). Discrimination performance was significantly lower (P < 0.05) with STD than with QUAN in all 3 tasks (Az with STD, 0.906, 0.878, and 0.768, respectively). MRI volume estimation led to a lower overall performance in all 3 tasks than did QUANnonunif (Az with MRI, 0.947, 0.917, and 0.872, respectively). Improved quantitative image reconstruction with accurate compensation for scatter, attenuation, and variable collimator response led to significantly better performance in discrimination tasks related to the diagnosis of prodromal AD than did standard clinical reconstruction procedures. The use of a nonuniform brain attenuation map yields a small improvement in discrimination accuracy."}
{"id": "15568482", "title": "[A case of dementia with motor neuron disease associated with agraphia--the omission of kana letters].", "content": "[A case of dementia with motor neuron disease associated with agraphia--the omission of kana letters]. We report a 55-year-old right-handed Japanese man with motor neuron disease and dysgraphia of kana letters. He was admitted to our hospital because of dysarthria and dysphasia. On admission, the results of general physical examination were within normal limits. Neurological examination revealed severe dysarthria, dysphasia, impaired movement of the tongue without fasciculation and slight distal muscle weakness in the bilateral upper limbs. There were no fasciculation of the muscle. Deep tendon reflexes were hyperactive without Babinski's signs. Sensation, coordination, and gait were normal. Neurophysiological studies demonstrated normal motor nerve conduction velocities and sensory action potential. The results of needle electromyography of the upper limbs were compatible with motor neuron disease (MND). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed atrophy of the bilateral temporal region of the brain. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography) showed reduced uptake of tracer in the bilateral temporal region. On neuropsychological examination, his behavior was normal, and orientation and intelligence were also preserved, but his speech was severely impaired. Reading comprehension was slightly impaired. In regard to writing comprehension, he had no difficulty in copying of words though dictation was found to be impaired. He omitted one kana letter in a word. Agraphia is accompanied by various factors such as aphasia, dementia, agnosia, alexia. But in this case at least for early stage, agraphia existed without other higher cortical dysfunction. He did not show severe dementia in his early stage of his disease, but developed it later in the disease's progression. In this case, agraphia might be due to the atrophic changes in the temporal lobe."}
{"id": "15545324", "title": "Systematic review of the diagnostic accuracy of 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in dementia.", "content": "Systematic review of the diagnostic accuracy of 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in dementia. The authors sought to determine the diagnostic accuracy of 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in discriminating between Alzheimer disease (AD) and other dementias. Articles published between 1985 and 2002 were retrieved systematically from MEDLINE and EMBASE, cross-referencing with personal collections and 13 narrative reviews. Of 301 studies identified, 48 survived exclusion criteria and contained extractable data. Two authors independently assessed and graded the methodology of all included studies. Diagnostic comparison groups included vascular dementia (VD; 13 studies), fronto-temporal dementia (FTD; 7 studies), normal healthy volunteers (27 studies), and non-dementia patients (13 studies). Where statistically justified, groups were pooled in a metaanalysis; summary receiver operating curves were constructed; and heterogeneity across studies examined by regression of the diagnostic odds ratio. The pooled weighted sensitivity of 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in discriminating clinically defined AD from VD was 71.3%; its specificity was 75.9%. The pooled weighted sensitivity and specificity for AD versus FTD were 71.5% and 78.2%, respectively. Variation in outcome across studies was not found to be attributable to any single factor. Pathological verification studies suggest that clinical criteria may be more sensitive in detecting AD than brain SPECT (81% versus 74%). However, SPECT studies provide a higher specificity against other types of dementia than clinical criteria (91% versus 70%). SPECT may, therefore, be helpful in the differential diagnosis of AD. Clinical follow-up studies are urgently required to establish its predictive validity with regard to natural history and treatment response."}
{"id": "15542244", "title": "Involvement of alpha6/alpha3 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in neuropsychiatric features of Dementia with Lewy bodies: [(125)I]-alpha-conotoxin MII binding in the thalamus and striatum.", "content": "Involvement of alpha6/alpha3 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in neuropsychiatric features of Dementia with Lewy bodies: [(125)I]-alpha-conotoxin MII binding in the thalamus and striatum. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a neurodegenerative disease associated with a range of neuropsychiatric symptoms and reduced expression of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in neocortex, hippocampus, thalamus and basal ganglia. To determine whether there are selective associations between alterations in alpha6/alpha3 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and the two key neuropsychiatric features of DLB, impaired consciousness (IC) and visual hallucinations (VH), quantitative [(125)I]-alpha-conotoxin MII ([(125)I]-alpha-Ctx MII) autoradiography was undertaken on 28 people with DLB and 15 control cases from the Newcastle Brain Bank. There was a highly significant overall trend for reduced thalamic [(125)I]-alpha-Ctx MII binding in DLB (p < 0.001), with significant deficits in the centromedian, ventral lateral and ventroposterior medial thalamic nuclei (p < 0.05), together with caudate and putamen (p < 0.001). [(125)I]-alpha-Ctx MII binding was significantly lower in DLB cases with IC than without IC in the putamen (p < 0.05), however there was no significant association between [(125)I]-alpha-Ctx MII binding and VH. Reductions in [(125)I]-alpha-Ctx MII binding in caudate and putamen were paralleled by similar reductions in [(125)I]PE2I binding. [(125)I]PE2I binding was also significantly lower in DLB cases with IC than without IC in the caudate (p < 0.05) and putamen (p < 0.001). These results demonstrate that deficits in alpha6/alpha3 nAChRs occur in specific brain regions in DLB, may in part be related to the loss of dopaminergic neurons and may contribute to the development of impaired consciousness in the disorder."}
{"id": "15538967", "title": "Biomarkers of neurodegenerative disorders: how good are they?", "content": "Biomarkers of neurodegenerative disorders: how good are they? Biomarkers are very important indicators of normal and abnormal biological processes. Specific changes in pathologies, biochemistries and genetics can give us comprehensive information regarding the nature of any particular disease. A good biomarker should be precise and reliable, distinguishable between normal and interested disease, and differential between different diseases. It is believed that biomarkers have great potential in predicting chances for diseases, aiding in early diagnosis, and setting standards for the development of new remedies to treat diseases. New technologies have enabled scientists to identify biomarkers of several different neurodegenerative diseases. The followings, for instance, are only a few of the many new biomarkers that have been recently identified: the phosphorylated tau protein and aggregated Beta-amyloid peptide for Alzheimer's disease (AD), Alpha-synuclein contained Lewy bodies and altered dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging for Parkinson's disease (PD), SOD mutations for familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and CAG repeats resulted from Huntington's gene mutations in Huntington's disease (HD). This article will focus on the most-recent findings of biomarkers belonging to the four mentioned neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "15528096", "title": "The application of statistical parametric mapping to 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The application of statistical parametric mapping to 123I-FP-CIT SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic loss can be visualised using (123)I-FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in several disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Most previous SPECT studies have adopted region of interest (ROI) methods for analysis, which are subjective and operator-dependent. The purpose of this study was to investigate differences in striatal binding of (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT using the automated technique of statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) in subjects with DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD), PD and healthy age-matched controls. This involved spatial normalisation of each subject's image to a customised template, followed by smoothing and intensity normalisation of each image to its corresponding mean occipital count per voxel. Group differences were assessed using a two-sample t test. Applying a height threshold of P <or= 0.05 corrected, the SPM[t] maps showed a significant bilateral reduced uptake in caudate, anterior and posterior putamen in DLB and PD subjects compared to AD subjects and controls. Significant reduction in binding was also observed bilaterally in the caudate nucleus in AD compared to controls. Striatal binding was indistinguishable between patients with DLB and PD. To investigate the usefulness of SPM as a decision aid in the evaluation of visually rated normal and abnormal patterns of uptake, receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed using data from single-subject SPMs. The areas under the ROC curves were greater than 0.92, demonstrating comparable discriminatory power with visual rating. The automated voxel-based approach is a viable alternative to the subjective and often time-consuming method of ROI and, in addition, may have the potential to differentiate between normal and abnormal patterns of uptake in a manner similar to visual inspection."}
{"id": "15492484", "title": "Whole-brain voxel-based correlation analysis between regional cerebral blood flow and intelligence quotient score in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Whole-brain voxel-based correlation analysis between regional cerebral blood flow and intelligence quotient score in Parkinson's disease. The correlation between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and intelligence quotient (IQ) score was investigated in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) without severe dementia. We analyzed the (9mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer single-photon emission computed tomography quantitative images and Revised Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale scores of 44 PD patients using statistical parametric mapping. Verbal IQ positively correlated with rCBF in the right ventral striatum and the bilateral prefrontal cortex, performance IQ positively correlated with rCBF in the right operculum, insula and the left middle temporal gyrus, and full-scale IQ positively correlated with rCBF in the right operculum, insula and the ventral striatum. The identified areas may be functionally related to mild to moderate cognitive impairment in patients with PD."}
{"id": "15489396", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia: impact of P301L tau mutation on a healthy carrier.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia: impact of P301L tau mutation on a healthy carrier. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second commonest form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease, but its clinical and biological features are less well known. To uncover its earliest signs, we studied the main clinical, neuroimaging, and biochemical findings in an asymptomatic carrier from a three generation FTD family, bearing the P301L pathogenic mutation in the tau gene. Except for selective impairment on the Verbal Fluency Test for letters, all cognitive tests were normal. The brain computed tomography scan was normal, but the brain single photon emission computed tomography and statistical parametric mapping (SPECT-SPM) scan revealed bilateral frontal lobe hypoperfusion. Levels of total tau, 181P-tau, and Abeta1-42 in the cerebrospinal fluid were increased compared with control values. We conclude that detection of these distinctive abnormalities should improve early diagnostic accuracy for FTD and help distinguish it from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15462408", "title": "Comparison of FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Comparison of FDG-PET and IMP-SPECT in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. To investigate regional differences in cerebral glucose metabolism and blood flow of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), we studied 7 subjects with DLB and 20 normal controls using F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) and then examined the same 7 subjects and 20 other normal controls with I-123 iodoamphetamine (IMP) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The anatomically standardized images were produced with NEUROSTAT and the regional relative metabolic and perfusional values were calculated. The mean reduction ratios of FDG uptake in the DLB group relative to the mean normal controls in the parietal lobe and occipital lobe were 0.72 and 0.83, respectively, while the corresponding mean reduction ratios of IMP uptake were 0.81 and 0.88, respectively. In the DLB group, parietal FDG uptake was significantly lower than parietal IMP uptake (p < 0.05), occipital FDG uptake was significantly lower than occipital IMP uptake (p < 0.05), and parietal IMP uptake was significantly lower than occipital IMP uptake (p < 0.01), but there was no difference between parietal and occipital FDG uptake. Our findings suggest that parietal metabolism and perfusion are severely affected in DLB patients, though the occipital metabolic and perfusional reduction is thought to be a feature of DLB. FDG-PET is thought to be superior to IMP-SPECT in detecting functional changes in the DLB brain."}
{"id": "15462371", "title": "[Progress in Parkinson's disease].", "content": "[Progress in Parkinson's disease]. There has been lots of progress in Parkinson's disease. First of all, in Japan, a guideline for the treatment of Parkinson's disease was published. This guideline contains both EBM based systematic review of every drugs being used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease including those drugs for the management of side effects and other problems arising during the course of the treatment and an algorithm of the practical treatment of Parkinson's disease patients. This is an official publication of Japanese Neurological Society. In the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, many specialists in Parkinson's disease have recognized the usefulness of MIBG SPECT of the cardiac sympathetic endings. MIBG uptake shows remarkable decrease in Lewy body positive Parkinson's disease patients from the early stage except for some of the stage I patients. In the basic aspect, studies on familial forms of Parkinson's disease have contributed a lot to the understanding of the pathogenesis of sporadic Parkinson's disease. Mutations of alpha-synuclein cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. Recently, triplication of one of the alpha-synuclein genes was found as the third mutation of PARK1. Thus just overproduction of normal alpha-synuclein is toxic to nigral neurons. In this form and sporadic Parkinson's disease, oxidative damage plays an important role in nigral neurodegeneration. PARK2 is caused by mutations of the parkin gene. Parkin protein is an ubiquitin-protein ligase. In this form also, oxidative damage appears to be operating in neurodegeneration. Thus a common mechanism appears to be present in different forms of Parkinson's disease. Future investigation to find neuroprotective drugs should take this concept of common mechanism into their research strategies."}
{"id": "15380113", "title": "Is major depression a neurologic disorder with psychiatric symptoms?", "content": "Is major depression a neurologic disorder with psychiatric symptoms? In the last decade, multiple investigator groups have identified structural changes of various neuroanatomic structures in patients with idiopathic major depression and bipolar disorders. Using high-resolution MRI of the brain and functional neuroimaging studies (i.e., PET, SPECT), researchers have described decreases in the volume of hippocampal formation, amygdala, entorhinal cortex, various frontal lobe structures, and basal ganglia, in addition to abnormal cerebral blood flow and metabolic activity in these structures as well as in thalamic nuclei. Similar structural and functional changes have been identified in patients with depression associated with a variety of neurologic disorders (i.e., stroke, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, Alzheimer's dementia). In addition, recent data have shown that depression is a risk factor for the development of several neurologic disorders, including epilepsy, stroke, and Parkinson's disease and bears a negative impact on the course and outcome of most neurologic disorders. This article reviews these data and provides evidence that major depressive and bipolar disorders may in fact be neurologic disorders with psychiatric symptoms."}
{"id": "15362248", "title": "GABAergic function in Alzheimer's disease: evidence for dysfunction and potential as a therapeutic target for the treatment of behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia.", "content": "GABAergic function in Alzheimer's disease: evidence for dysfunction and potential as a therapeutic target for the treatment of behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by disruptions in multiple major neurotransmitters. While many studies have attempted to establish whether GABA is disrupted in AD patients, findings have varied. We review evidence for disruptions in GABA among patients with AD and suggest that the variable findings reflect subtypes of the disease that are possibly manifested clinically by differing behavioural symptoms. GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter, has long been a target for anxiolytics, hypnotic sedatives, and anticonvulsants. We review the clinical use of GABAergic agents in treating persons with AD symptoms. While newer generation GABAergic medications are now available, they have yet to be evaluated among patients with AD."}
{"id": "15359564", "title": "Stress in the caregivers of Alzheimer's patients: an experimental investigation in Italy.", "content": "Stress in the caregivers of Alzheimer's patients: an experimental investigation in Italy. In Italy, the family constitutes the major caregiving response to the needs of the elderly who are no longer self-sufficient. These caregivers are often wives or daughters who have chosen to keep the patient at home with them. On average, three-quarters of the caregiver's day is devoted to the patient, a proportion that tends to increase linearly as the disease progresses. The primary aim of our study was to describe a group of Italian caregivers of patients with a diagnosis of dementia to assess their levels of stress. We then correlated these caregivers with a number of sociodemographic variables and the patients' degree of cognitive impairment and independence in daily life activities. The study was conducted on a sample group of 236 caregivers of patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) according to the DSM-IV criteria. Each caregiver took part in a sociodemographic interview and filled in two questionnaires: the Caregiver Burden Inventory (CBI), to quantify the caregiving workload and the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI), to assess the level of anxiety and depression. Patients were administered the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) to evaluate their level of cognitive impairment and the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) and Activities of Daily Living (ADL) tests to quantify their level of independence. The analysis of the results shows that the average Italian caregiver of an AD patient is a woman, approximately 60 years old. The majority of caregivers are spouses, followed by children. In general, these caregivers work at home, are housewives or retired, and are personally involved in caring for the patients. The greater the level of a patient's cognitive impairment and the less independent they are, the greater amount of care and supervision they require, leaving less free time for the caregiver; this leads to higher levels of anxiety related to caregiving. Toward the final stages of the disease, patient care tasks take up nearly all of the caregiver's free time, leaving them only about two hours per week for themselves or their friends. In conclusion, the management of dementia patients places a particular burden on the caregiver and involves several economic and social costs. The burden becomes heavier as the disease progresses, since the increase of cognitive disorders and the resulting reduction of independence in daily life, together with the onset of behavioral symptoms, heighten the caregiver's distress, anxiety, and depression. Establishing a network of community services able to alleviate the burden on families is therefore a priority. Parallels can be drawn between the stresses documented for American caregivers and their Italian counterparts."}
{"id": "15324720", "title": "PET imaging of amyloid in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET imaging of amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and is characterised by progressive impairment in cognitive function and behaviour. The pathological features of AD include neuritic plaques composed of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) fibrils, neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau, and neurotransmitter deficits. Increases in the concentration of Abeta in the course of the disease with subtle effects on synaptic efficacy will lead to gradual increase in the load of amyloid plaques and progression in cognitive impairment. Direct imaging of amyloid load in patients with AD in vivo would be very useful for the early diagnosis of AD and the development and assessment of new treatment strategies. Three different strategies are being used to develop compounds suitable for in vivo imaging of amyloid deposits in human brains. Monoclonal antibodies against Abeta and peptide fragments have had limited uptake by the brain when tested in patients with AD. When putrescine-gadolinium-Abeta has been injected into transgenic mice overexpressing amyloid, labelling has been observed with MRI. The small molecular approach for amyloid imaging has so far been most successful. The binding of different derivatives of Congo red and thioflavin has been studied in human autopsy brain tissue and in transgenic mice. Two compounds, fluorine-18-labelled-FDDNP and carbon-11-labelled-PIB, both show more binding in the brains of patients with AD than in those of healthy people. Additional compounds will probably be developed that are suitable not only for PET but also for single photon emission CT (SPECT)."}
{"id": "15324365", "title": "CSF biomarkers for mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "CSF biomarkers for mild cognitive impairment. A correct clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) early in the course of the disease is of importance to initiate symptomatic treatment with acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, and will be even more important when disease-arresting drugs, such as beta-sheet breakers or gamma-secretase inhibitors, will reach the clinic. However, there is no clinical method to determine if a patient with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has incipient AD, i.e. will progress to AD with dementia, or have a benign form of MCI without progression. Thus, there is a great clinical need for diagnostic biomarkers to identify incipient AD in MCI cases. Three cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers; total-tau (T-tau), phospho-tau (P-tau) and the 42 amino acid form of beta-amyloid (Abeta42) have been evaluated in numerous scientific papers. These CSF markers have high sensitivity to differentiate early and incipient AD from normal ageing, depression, alcohol dementia and Parkinson's disease, but lower specificity against other dementias, such as frontotemporal and Lewy body dementia. However, if the CSF biomarkers are used in the right clinical context, i.e. together with the cumulative information from the clinical examination, standard laboratory tests and brain-imaging techniques [single photon emission tomography (SPECT) and magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) scans], they may have a role in the clinical evaluation of MCI cases."}
{"id": "15319273", "title": "Decreased brain dopaminergic transporters in HIV-associated dementia patients.", "content": "Decreased brain dopaminergic transporters in HIV-associated dementia patients. HIV has a propensity to invade subcortical regions of the brain, which may lead to a subcortical dementia termed HIV-cognitive motor complex. Therefore, we aimed to assess whether dopamine (DA) D2 receptors and transporters (DAT) are affected in the basal ganglia of subjects with HIV, and how these changes relate to dementia status. Fifteen HIV subjects (age 44.5 +/- 11 years; CD4 185 +/- 130/mm3)) and 13 seronegative controls (42 +/- 12 years) were evaluated with PET to assess availability of DAT ([11C]cocaine) and DA D2 receptor ([11C]raclopride). HIV patients with associated dementia (HAD), but not those without dementia (ND) had significantly lower DAT availability in putamen (-19.3%, P = 0.009) and ventral striatum (-13.6%, P = 0.03) compared with seronegative controls. Higher plasma viral load in the HIV dementia patients correlated with lower DAT in the caudate (r = -0.7, P = 0.02) and putamen (r = -0.69, P = 0.03). DA D2 receptor availability, however, showed mild and non-significant decreases in HIV patients. These results provide the first evidence of DA terminal injury in HIV dementia patients, and suggest that decreased DAT may contribute to the pathogenesis of HIV dementia. The greater DAT decrease in the putamen than in the caudate parallels that observed in Parkinson's disease. The inverse relationship between viral burden and DAT availability further supports HIV-mediated neurotoxicity to dopaminergic terminals."}
{"id": "15314128", "title": "Autopsy proven sporadic frontotemporal dementia due to microvacuolar-type histology, with onset at 21 years of age.", "content": "Autopsy proven sporadic frontotemporal dementia due to microvacuolar-type histology, with onset at 21 years of age. We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuropathological features of a 21 year old woman with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The early presentation was of florid behavioural change involving hyperactivity and disinhibition. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography of the brain revealed atrophy and severe functional abnormalities of the frontal and temporal lobes, respectively. Electroencephalogram was normal. At autopsy, there was gross frontotemporal brain atrophy and the underlying histology was of a microvacuolar-type degeneration; no tau or ubiquitin immunoreactive, intraneuronal inclusions were seen. There was no family history of dementia and no mutation in the tau gene. We believe this patient represents the youngest (so far) recorded case of FTD associated with this particular histological form of the disorder."}
{"id": "15313522", "title": "Predicting the accuracy of a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with 99mTc HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Predicting the accuracy of a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with 99mTc HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography. The current clinical practice of reporting images obtained with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-d,l-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc HMPAO) images was examined by having 16 experts evaluate the appearance of SPECT images in patients with probable Alzheimer type dementia (ATD), patients with major depressive episode (DSM-IV), and healthy volunteers. The experts rated diagnostic criteria of scan appearance in respect of importance for their individual diagnostic practice. Experts were nuclear medicine specialists, psychiatrists and physicists taking part in a European multi-centre collaborative project. They examined 158 perfusion scans and then the same perfusion scans together with statistical parametric maps (SPMs). The sensitivity of experts' diagnostic judgments was significantly and negatively correlated with the importance they attributed to reduced regional perfusion in the parietal lobes. A corresponding positive correlation was observed for diagnostic specificity against depressed and healthy volunteers. Similar results were observed with SPMs, where in addition area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was significantly reduced with raters' increased diagnostic reliance on frontal lobe perfusion deficits. Sensitivity was greater with SPM for patients younger than 70 years and with dementia severity. The more importance experts placed on parietal (symmetrical) perfusion deficits, the less sensitive and the more specific their diagnostic judgment was. Using multiple raters in large patient samples may provide a way of identifying successful explicit diagnostic strategies for clinical image analysis."}
{"id": "15312279", "title": "Functional imaging in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Functional imaging in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Functional imaging modalities (positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and functional magnetic resonance) allow aspects of regional cerebral function to be evaluated in various neuropsychiatric disorders. This review will summarize the use of such techniques in current imaging studies involving Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, with respect to assessing regional changes, using them in differential diagnosis, and monitoring disease progression and treatment effects."}
{"id": "15301995", "title": "Abnormal motor behavior during sleep.", "content": "Abnormal motor behavior during sleep. Abnormal motor behaviors during sleep can be classified into four categories, ranging from myoclonic jerks to complex and integrated motor behaviors There have been recent developments in several of these conditions, in particular restless legs syndrome (RLS) and rapid-eye-movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD). RLS is one of the major causes of insomnia. Familial aggregation of RLS has been demonstrated by several groups, and molecular genetics studies have suggested the presence of susceptibility genes on chromosomes 12q and 14q. Pharmacologic and brain imaging studies suggest the involvement of dopaminergic mechanisms in RLS, but recent work has focused on brain iron metabolism. Studies indicate that RBD patients may eventually develop Parkinson's disease (PD). Conversely, RBD has been found in patients already diagnosed with PD. Single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography studies have shown a decrease in binding to presynaptic dopamine transporter in both idiopathic RBD and PD. Patients with RBD (associated or unassociated with PD) also have neuropsychological deficits. RBD may therefore represent the prodrome of a neurodegenerative disease leading to multiple system atrophy and Lewy body dementia. Understanding the underlying pathophysiology of abnormal sleep motor behaviors may prove useful in the management of insomnia."}
{"id": "15265266", "title": "Relevance of functional neuroimaging in the progression of mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Relevance of functional neuroimaging in the progression of mild cognitive impairment. To assess whether combining neuropsychological tests and cerebral blood flow markers improves progression accuracy from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) than each of them on its own. Forty-two patients were investigated prospectively, undergoing baseline and 3-year follow-up neuropsychological tests and neuroimaging with Tc-ECD-SPECT. Twenty-one patients had developed AD while 21 retained their initial diagnosis. The relative blood flow and cognitive differences were studied. Validity parameters, multivariant analysis and logistic regression model were calculated. Patients who deteriorated showed lower scoring than stable subjects in some neuropsychological tests (p = 0.03-0.001) and in relative blood flow in selected regions (8-10%). Low cognitive test scoring and low relative blood flow in some regions showed sensibilities and specificities from 70% to 86% for the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease. The relative risk of progression to AD was up to 4.7 times higher for these patients (p = 0.0001). The left frontal relative blood flow, the CAMCOG and orientation scoring were the best data to predict the risk of progression to AD. The combination of functional imaging and neuropsychological tests can diagnose with high sensitivity and specificity if a patient is suffering cognitive impairment in its early stages, and may aid in predicting the risk of developing dementia."}
{"id": "15254794", "title": "Presynaptic nigro-striatal function in a group of Alzheimer's disease patients with parkinsonism: evidence from a dopamine transporter imaging study.", "content": "Presynaptic nigro-striatal function in a group of Alzheimer's disease patients with parkinsonism: evidence from a dopamine transporter imaging study. The occurrence of parkinsonism in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is quite common, however the molecular and neurochemical changes underlying such extrapyramidal features in AD have been not fully understood. Post-mortem as well as in vivo imaging study have produced conflicting results as regards the existence of dopaminergic changes in AD. Aim of the present study was to investigate in vivo the nigro-striatal dopaminergic function in a group of AD patients with parkinsonism. Thirteen patients with AD and extrapyramidal features not related to past neuroleptic use (AD-P) underwent SPECT with 123I-FP-CIT, a ligand of dopamine transporter, and the data were compared with those obtained in 15 patients with Diffuse Lewy Body Dementia (DLBD), 20 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and 8 healthy elderly controls. The analysis of the data was performed by regions-of-interest approach and calculations of the striatal-to-non specific (occipital lobes) radioactivity ratios were made. The 123I-FP-CIT striatal uptake in patients with AD-P was similar to that obtained in the control population. Both the DLBD and PD groups showed significantly lower 123I-FP-CIT uptake in all striatal areas with respect to AD-P and control groups (p < 0.005). The lack of dopamine transporter changes in our series of AD-P patients can indicate that dopaminergic presynaptic function is preserved in this population and that different dopaminergic changes such as postsynaptic ones, or different neurotransmitter alterations might underlie the extrapyramidal features in AD."}
{"id": "15232656", "title": "Diagnosis of suspected Alzheimer's disease is improved by automated analysis of regional cerebral blood flow.", "content": "Diagnosis of suspected Alzheimer's disease is improved by automated analysis of regional cerebral blood flow. Accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, remains difficult. In order to assess whether fully automated stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) presentation contributes to the diagnosis of AD by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), we investigated the diagnostic accuracy of transaxial display with and without 3D-SSP analysis as well as the correlation between cerebral perfusion in different cortical areas and the mini mental score (MMS). Seventy-two patients referred because of cognitive impairment were included in the study. According to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke (NINCDS) and the Alzheimer's disease and Related Disorders Association (ADRDA) criteria, 27 patients were diagnosed as having probable AD while 45 were classified as non-AD patients. 3D-SSP was used to quantify the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) acquired from SPECT imaging. Compared with the transaxial section presentation alone, 3D-SSP presentation improved the area under the receiver operating curve (p<0.05) as well as intra-observer (k=0.73 vs 0.88) and inter-observer (k=0.50 vs 0.84) reproducibility. Upon normalisation of regional to thalamic activity, multiple regression analysis revealed a strong correlation between the MMS and rCBF in the right parietal cortex (p=0.002). Addition of 3D-SSP to the transaxial section display of ECD-SPECT studies improves the reproducibility and the diagnostic performance in respect of AD in patients with cognitive impairment and provides a valid tool for assessment of the severity of cortical perfusion abnormalities in such patients."}
{"id": "15215218", "title": "A non-DM1, non-DM2 multisystem myotonic disorder with frontotemporal dementia: phenotype and suggestive mapping of the DM3 locus to chromosome 15q21-24.", "content": "A non-DM1, non-DM2 multisystem myotonic disorder with frontotemporal dementia: phenotype and suggestive mapping of the DM3 locus to chromosome 15q21-24. The majority of proximal myotonic myopathy syndromes reported so far have been related to the myotonic dystrophy (DM) type 2 (DM2) mutation, an expanded (CCTG)n repeat in the ZNF9 gene. Here, we describe the phenotype and the histological features in muscle and brain of the first large pedigree with a non-myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) non-DM2 multisystem myotonic disorder associated with severe frontotemporal dementia. Thirty individuals from three generations underwent detailed neurological, neuropsychological, electrophysiological, brain imaging and molecular analyses. Ten of them had proximal muscle weakness at onset, clinical/electrical myotonia and DM-type cataracts. The mean age at onset was 46.7 +/- 12.6 years (range: 32-69). Dementia was observed later in the course of the disease. On muscle biopsies, rare nuclear clumps, rimmed vacuoles and small angulated type 1 and type 2 fibres were seen early in the disease. They were replaced by fibrous adipose tissue at later stages. Immunohistochemical analysis of myosin heavy chain isoforms showed no selective fibre type atrophy-both type 1 and type 2 fibres being affected. Cortical atrophy without white matter lesions was seen on brain MRI. A brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) study revealed marked frontotemporal hypoperfusion. Post-mortem examination of the brains of two patients showing prominent frontotemporal spongiosis, neuronal loss and rare neuronal and glial tau inclusions suggested frontotemporal dementia. Western blot analyses of the tau protein showed a triplet of isoforms (60, 64 and 69 kDa) in neocortical areas, and a doublet (64 and 69 kDa) in subcortical areas that distinguish our myotonic disorder from other's myotonic dystrophies. Molecular analyses failed to detect a repeat expansion in the DMPK and ZNF9 genes excluding both DM1 and DM2, whereas a genome-wide linkage analysis strongly suggested a linkage to chromosome 15q21-24. This previously unreported multisystem myotonic disorder including findings resembling DM1, DM2 and frontotemporal dementia provides further evidence of the clinical and genetic heterogeneity of the myotonic dystrophies. We propose to designate this disease myotonic dystrophy type 3, DM3."}
{"id": "15214511", "title": "Imaging of brain function using SPECT.", "content": "Imaging of brain function using SPECT. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a technique widely used in nuclear medicine for the imaging of the many organs including the skeleton and heart, as well as for whole body imaging for the detection of tumors. The use of tracers of cerebral perfusion and more recently brain neurotransmitter systems has resulted in the development of a number of applications for brain SPECT in neurology and psychiatry. Indications have been established in cases of dementia, epilepsy, neurovascular disorders, Parkinsonism, and following minor head trauma. It also has the potential to be a valuable research tool for the study of in vivo brain function. In this paper an overview will be given of the principles underlying Brain SPECT, the performance of the procedure, and its applications as a diagnostic modality and research tool."}
{"id": "15210531", "title": "Dopamine transporter loss visualized with FP-CIT SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dopamine transporter loss visualized with FP-CIT SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a common form of late-life dementia that can be difficult to differentiate from other disorders, especially Alzheimer disease (AD), during life. At autopsy the striatal dopaminergic transporter is reduced. To examine the extent and pattern of dopamine transporter loss using iodine I 123-radiolabeled 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (FP-CIT) with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in DLBs compared with other dementias and to assess its potential to enhance a differential diagnosis. Cohort study comparing FP-CIT with criterion standard of consensus clinical diagnosis. General hospital. One hundred sixty-four older subjects (33 healthy older control subjects, 34 with NINCDS/ADRDA [National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association]-confirmed AD, 23 with consensus guideline-confirmed DLB, 38 with United Kingdom's Parkinson Disease Society Brain Bank-confirmed Parkinson disease [PD], and 36 with PD and dementia). Injection of (123)I-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane with SPECT scan performed at 4 hours. Visual ratings of scans and region of interest analysis. Significant reductions (P<.001) in FP-CIT binding occurred in the caudate and anterior and posterior putamens in subjects with DLB compared with subjects with AD and controls. Transporter loss in DLBs was of similar magnitude to that seen in PD, but with a flatter rostrocaudal (caudate-putamen) gradient (P =.001), while the greatest loss in all 3 areas was seen in those who had PD and dementia. Both region of interest analysis and visual ratings provided good separation between DLBs and AD (region of interest: sensitivity, 78%; specificity, 94%; positive predictive value, 90%) but not among subjects with DLB, PD, and PD with dementia. Dopamine transporter loss can be detected in vivo using FP-CIT SPECT in DLB. Further studies, especially of subjects with DLB without PD, are required to fully establish use in clinical practice."}
{"id": "15206434", "title": "Bilateral occipital lobe hyperperfusion demonstrated by single photon emission computed tomography during seizure-related cortical blindness.", "content": "Bilateral occipital lobe hyperperfusion demonstrated by single photon emission computed tomography during seizure-related cortical blindness. An 81-year-old woman with chronic dementia developed lethargy, confusion, binocular blindness, and episodic left-beating nystagmus. Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed high signal in the right occipital region suggesting recent ischemia. A concurrent electroencephalogram (EEG) showed a right occipital seizure focus that spread to the opposite occipital lobe. A single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) performed during the seizure epoch showed bilateral occipital lobe hyperperfusion. This is the second report to document SPECT bi-occipital hyperperfusion in seizure-related cortical blindness."}
{"id": "15201367", "title": "Novel amyloid precursor protein gene missense mutation (D678N) in probable familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Novel amyloid precursor protein gene missense mutation (D678N) in probable familial Alzheimer's disease. To describe a novel missense mutation, Asp678Asn (D678N), in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene in a Japanese pedigree of probable familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). The proband was a women of 72. Symptoms of dementia that fulfilled the criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease appeared at about 60 years of age, and slowly worsened over more than 10 years without evident cerebrovascular complications, either clinically or neuroradiologically. Polymerase chain reaction single strand conformational polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis followed by sequence analysis was used to examine genomic DNA of the proband for mutations in the APP gene exons 16 and 17. Analysis of the APP exon 16 in the proband showed a GAC to AAC nucleotide substitution in codon 678 of the APP gene, causing an amino acid substitution of Asp to Asn (D678N). Heterozygosity of the APP D678N mutation was found in the proband and in the demented elder sister. The production and accumulation of mutated Abeta (Asn7-Abeta) or the misfunction of D678N mutant APP may have pathogenic properties for the development of Alzheimer's disease in this pedigree."}
{"id": "15199417", "title": "[Study of the pre and post-synaptic dopaminergic system by DaTSCAN/IBZM SPECT in the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism in 75 patients].", "content": "[Study of the pre and post-synaptic dopaminergic system by DaTSCAN/IBZM SPECT in the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism in 75 patients]. Essential tremor (ET) may be misdiagnosed as idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). In neurodegenerative diseases, structural imaging, such as CT or MRI, is of limited value for differentiating parkinsonian syndromes since structural changes are often only evident by the time the disease is far advanced. Most cases of symptomatic parkinsonism are vascular parkinsonism, but PD may coexist. The differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (LBD) is often difficult. To define the utility of functional neuroimaging test to establish differential diagnosis between PD and ET, drug induced parkinsonism, multiple system atrophy and vascular parkinsonism, and between AD and LBD, when clinical presentation, evolution or treatment response are atypical. A group of 75 patients with parkinsonism was examined by clinical assessment and DaTSCAN (123I-FP-CTI, dopamine transporter protein marker) and/or IBZM SPECT (D2 receptor marker). The patients were recruited from our outpatient clinic. Correlation between initial clinical diagnosis and functional imaging studies (DaTSCAN and/or IBZM SPECT) in our patients did not reach that described (more than 90 %) for these techniques in previously published studies. Conclusions. According to sensitivity and sensibility reported in previous imaging studies of the pre and/or postsynaptic dopaminergic system using DaTSCAN and/ or IBZM, SPECT may be a new tool in the diagnosis of parkinsonian patients with difficult clinical diagnosis."}
{"id": "15178938", "title": "Familial presenile dementia with bitemporal atrophy.", "content": "Familial presenile dementia with bitemporal atrophy. This study describes the clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and genetic characteristics in two generations of a Swedish family affected by presenile dementia. The pedigree includes 5 cases (mother and 4 of 5 children) of progressive dementia with onset between 54 and 62 years. The clinical picture is characterized by insidious onset and progressive decline in episodic memory without spatial impairment or dyspraxia, followed by changes in personality and behaviour, with signs of disinhibition, irritability, impulsivity and loss of social awareness. Three siblings, examined after 10 years of duration, showed moderate language deficits but preserved spatial function and praxis. CT and MRI showed progressive bilateral temporal atrophy and moderate frontal white matter changes. Regional cerebral blood flow measurements showed hypoperfusion in temporal areas bilaterally. Quantitative EEG was normal within 5 years after symptom onset and thereafter showed a moderate increase in relative theta power. Sequencing of the tau gene (chromosome 17) revealed the previously described R406W mutation in exon 13 as a likely cause of the disease. This mutation was identified in all affected cases. The clinical picture of this family shows striking similarities not only to frontotemporal dementia but also to Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15178934", "title": "Patterns of referring of patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration to psychiatric in- and out-patient services. Results from a prospective multicentre study.", "content": "Patterns of referring of patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration to psychiatric in- and out-patient services. Results from a prospective multicentre study. Dementia with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is clinically characterized by the occurrence of various psychiatric symptoms. In a recent study, the hospital-based prevalence of FTLD and the circumstances of the patients' admission to German psychiatric state hospitals were estimated. On the basis of further continuous assessment, this original FTLD group (n = 33) has been enlarged to 58 patients. The authors here present demographic and clinical data, and reasons for admission to geriatric psychiatry hospitals in comparison with 17 patients, who primarily attended the Memory Disorders Clinic of the University of Regensburg. The results implicate that both institutions see patients with different clinical syndromes: (1) patients were primarily referred to the Memory Disorders Clinic presenting memory and/or speech difficulties as the leading symptoms; (2) major reasons for hospitalisation of patients with FTLD in geriatric psychiatry hospitals were behavioural disturbances; (3) late-onset FTLD (>65 years) was more common than previously assumed in both institutions, and (4) increasing age at admission increased the likelihood to obtain a limited diagnostic approach of brain imaging (only cranial computer tomography) to evaluate the cause of dementia."}
{"id": "15172055", "title": "Combined diffusion-weighted and spectroscopic MR imaging in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Combined diffusion-weighted and spectroscopic MR imaging in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. A 49-year-old woman presented with progressive dementia. Diffusion-weighted MR images showed abnormalities in the cerebral cortex as well as the putamen and caudate head bilaterally. MR spectroscopic imaging revealed marked asymmetric decrease of normal metabolites in the right basal ganglia, with concordant hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging is more sensitive to cortical involvement in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, and MR spectroscopy may yield evidence of asymmetric involvement. Combined functional and metabolic MR imaging may be useful in studying CJD."}
{"id": "15166883", "title": "Posterior cingulate hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease, senile dementia of Alzheimer type, and other dementias evaluated by three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections using Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT.", "content": "Posterior cingulate hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease, senile dementia of Alzheimer type, and other dementias evaluated by three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections using Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT. Hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate cortex is thought to be useful for the early diagnosis of dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). In the present study, we compared the incidence of posterior cingulate hypoperfusion in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT), and patients with other types of dementia, as evaluated by three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) imaging. The subjects were 20 AD patients, 20 SDAT patients, 13 frontotemporal dementia patients, and 3 other types of dementia patients. A SPECT study was performed 5 minutes after the injection of 740 MBq technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime. 3D-SSP images were obtained with global normalization to perform the statistical analysis. The normal database of 3D-SSP consisted of 15 healthy volunteers. Hypoperfusion was considered to be significant when the Z-score was over 2.5. Posterior cingulate hypoperfusion was observed in 13 of 20 AD patients (65%), in 5 of 20 SDAT patients (25%), but in none of other type of dementia patients. Posterior cingulate hypoperfusion was considered to be a finding specific to DAT, and this finding was thought to be useful to diagnose DAT patients, especially for AD patients. However, it was considered to be difficult to diagnose early-stage SDAT patients."}
{"id": "15164821", "title": "Quantitative electroencephalography in frontotemporal dementia with methylphenidate response: a case study.", "content": "Quantitative electroencephalography in frontotemporal dementia with methylphenidate response: a case study. Frontotemporal dementia is an underdiagnosed illness with predominant behavioral and executive manifestations. Historically, diagnosis has been based on a combination of clinical history, neuropsychological testing, and brain imaging. No effective treatment currently exists for this disorder. A case is presented using quantitative EEG with methylphenidate challenge correlated with SPECT. The patient underwent neuropsychological testing, a SPECT brain study, and a quantitative EEG, which was repeated after methylphenidate administration. SPECT was significant for hypoperfusion to the bilateral frontotemporal regions, with left-sided hypoperfusion greater than homologous right as demonstrated by LORETA analysis. QEEG correlated with SPECT, and demonstrated profound left greater than right bi-frontotemporal slowing, which normalized partially after methylphenidate administration. The patient has remained on methylphenidate as an outpatient, and has had significant behavioral improvement. Quantitative EEG may provide both diagnostic and therapeutic data with regard to frontotemporal dementia. Further studies of methylphenidate in this population are needed to confirm these data."}
{"id": "15164820", "title": "Quantitative EEG findings of a temporal lobe abnormality not detected by magnetic resonance or SPECT imaging in a patient with dementia.", "content": "Quantitative EEG findings of a temporal lobe abnormality not detected by magnetic resonance or SPECT imaging in a patient with dementia. The last three decades have seen significant advances in structural neuroimaging techniques such as computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. These seem to have surpassed EEG as modalities for the identification of focal CNS lesions. Reported here is the case of a patient with a temporal lobe lesion not evident with magnetic resonance imaging or single photon emission computerized tomography but detected by EEG and positron emission tomography. EEG, particularly quantitative EEG, remains a valuable tool for the demonstration of the degree of dysfunctional changes associated with a cerebral lesion."}
{"id": "15164576", "title": "[Diagnosing the mild cognitive impairment stage of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Diagnosing the mild cognitive impairment stage of Alzheimer's disease]. Recently, it has become important to diagnose Alzheimer's Disease (AD) at an early stage due to the development of AD therapy. Also, there is increasing recognition of a class of elderly people with complaints of memory loss but who nevertheless do not meet the criteria for dementia. \"Mild cognitive impairment\" (MCI) is the term used for this disorder, and amnestic MCI is highly converted to AD. In this study we evaluated the accuracy of diagnosis of amnestic MCI by cerebrospinal fluid total-tau protein (CSF/total-tau), cerebrospinal fluid amyloid beta 1-42 protein (CSF/A beta 1-42), and cerebral blood flow in the posterior cingulate cortex using SPECT. CSF/total-tau was the most appropriate to discriminate between normal cognitive individuals and those with amnestic MCI. We also evaluated the CSF/total-tau and MRI images between patients with stable MCI and those with progressive MCI, including those who converted to AD in the following two years. The stable type was characterized by normal CSF/total-tau levels and relatively high grade periventricular white matter lesions (PWML). Conversely, the progressive type was characterized by high CSF-tau levels and relatively low grade PWML. We speculate that stable MCI is due to ischemic change with in the white matter lesion, while progressive MCI may represent a previous stage of AD."}
{"id": "15148751", "title": "[The role of brain functional imaging on early diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[The role of brain functional imaging on early diagnosis of dementia]."}
{"id": "15136683", "title": "Striatal dopamine transporter in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson disease: a comparison.", "content": "Striatal dopamine transporter in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson disease: a comparison. To study the nigrostriatal pathways in 21 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 19 drug naive Parkinson disease (PD) patients, and 16 controls using a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand [123I]-2beta-carbometoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl) nortropane (FP-CIT) and SPECT in order to assess similarities or differences between DLB and PD. A SPECT scan was carried out 3 to 4 hours after administration of 185 MBq (IV) of FP-CIT. Using occipital cortex as a radioactivity uptake reference, ratios for the caudate nuclei and the anterior and posterior putamina of both hemispheres were calculated. From the FP-CIT binding measurements, asymmetry indices and caudate:putamen ratios were derived. The DLB and PD groups had lower FP-CIT binding in all striatal areas than controls (analysis of variance: p < 0.001 in all measures). DLB patients also had significantly lower binding in the caudate nucleus than the PD patients. There was greater asymmetry of uptake in the posterior putamina of PD patients than DLB patients (p < 0.04) and controls (p < 0.01). The mean caudate:putamen ratio for the DLB group was not significantly different from that of the controls, while the mean caudate:putamen ratio of the PD group was higher than that of the control group (p < 0.001) and the DLB group (p < 0.001). This study showed differences between PD and DLB in the pattern of striatal dopaminergic dysfunction. DLB patients do not have the characteristic selective degeneration of ventrolateral nigral neurons seen in PD. This could explain some of the clinical differences between DLB and PD."}
{"id": "15129697", "title": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Alzheimer's disease. This study was designed to quantify the heterogeneity on cerebral blood flow single-photon emission tomography (SPET) images in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) using a three-dimensional fractal analysis. Twenty-one FTLD patients, 21 AD patients and 11 healthy controls underwent technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime SPET scanning. Patients with FTLD and AD matched for sex, age and the severity of dementia as estimated with the Clinical Dementia Rating and were determined to be in the early stage of illness. We delineated the SPET images using a 35% cut-off and a 50% cut-off of the maximal voxel radioactivity and measured the number of voxels included in the contours of two different cut-offs. The fractal dimension (FD) was calculated by relating the logarithms of the cut-offs and the numbers of voxels, and it was defined as the heterogeneity of the cerebral perfusion. We divided the SPET images into two sets, anterior and posterior, with equal numbers of coronal SPET slices. We calculated total FD, anterior FD and posterior FD for total, anterior and posterior SPET images. Anterior FDs for FTLD and AD were 1.55 +/- 0.34 and 1.24 +/- 0.19 (P = 0.0002). The ratios of anterior to posterior FD for FTLD and AD were 1.81 +/- 0.41 and 1.32 +/- 0.14 (P < 0.0001). Use of the anterior FD and the ratio of anterior to posterior FD separated FTLD patients from AD patients and controls with a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 93.8%. Anterior FD and the ratio of anterior to posterior FD may be useful in distinguishing FTLD from AD."}
{"id": "15122920", "title": "Differential cytotoxicity of human wild type and mutant alpha-synuclein in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells in the presence of dopamine.", "content": "Differential cytotoxicity of human wild type and mutant alpha-synuclein in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells in the presence of dopamine. Parkinson's disease (PD) involves loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and is characterized by intracellular inclusions, Lewy bodies, consisting primarily of aggregated alpha-synuclein. Two substitution mutations (A53T and A30P) in alpha-synuclein gene have been identified in familial early-onset PD. To understand the biological changes that incur upon alpha-synuclein-induced cytotoxicity in the presence of dopamine, the current studies were undertaken. Human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells coexpressing the human dopamine transporter [hDAT], and either wild type (wt) or mutant alpha-synucleins, were treated with 50 microM dopamine (DA). In cells expressing wt or A30P alpha-synuclein, DA accelerated production of reactive oxygen species and cell death as compared to cells expressing A53T or hDAT alone. The increased sensitivity of such cells to DA was investigated by measuring changes in cellular ionic gradient, by atomic absorption spectrometry, and cell metabolism, by high-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Both wt and A30P alpha-synuclein caused rapid decrease in levels of intracellular potassium, followed by mitochondrial damage and cytochrome c leakage, with decreased cellular metabolism as compared to cells expressing A53T or hDAT alone. Collapse of ionic gradient was significantly faster in A30P (t(1/2) = 3.5 h) than in wt (t(1/2) = 6.5 h) cells, and these changes in ionic gradient preceded cytochrome c leakage and depletion of metabolic energy. Neither wt nor mutant alpha-synuclein resulted in significant changes in ionic gradient or cellular metabolism in the absence of intracellular DA. These findings suggest a specific sequence of events triggered by dopamine and differentially exacerbated by alpha-synuclein and the A30P mutant."}
{"id": "15118553", "title": "[At the boundary between normal aging and Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[At the boundary between normal aging and Alzheimer disease]. Accurately predicting the development of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) early in the course of the disease would have major implications. Hence, the pre-dementia stage of AD has become a major topic of current research. Amnestic 'mild cognitive impairment' (MCI) has recently emerged as the most convenient avenue to address this Issue, since most of MCI patients will progress to AD, at a rate of 10% to 15% per Year, suggesting that MCI represents the clinical manifestation of incipient AD (Petersen et al., 2001). However, all MCI patients would probably not convert to AD, at least in the near future, so that the Issue of prospective longitudinal studies is to detect specific indices of rapid conversion. In this paper, we focus on longitudinal studies using either neuropsychology, or morphological or functional neuroimaging to find predictive markers allowing to distinguish those MCI patients that rapidly convert to AD from those that do not develop the disease during the follow-up period. Whereas functional neuroimaging, and more specifically FDG-PET, seems particularly accurate to predict AD, the combination of multiple approaches is likely to be a promising avenue."}
{"id": "15101187", "title": "[Diagnosis of dementia and neurodegenerative disorders by brain SPECT of three dimensional stereotactic surface projection method].", "content": "[Diagnosis of dementia and neurodegenerative disorders by brain SPECT of three dimensional stereotactic surface projection method]."}
{"id": "15099023", "title": "Substantia nigra Marinesco bodies are associated with decreased striatal expression of dopaminergic markers.", "content": "Substantia nigra Marinesco bodies are associated with decreased striatal expression of dopaminergic markers. Marinesco bodies are nuclear inclusions found in pigmented neurons of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus of humans and monkeys. It has long been known that the frequency of these inclusions increases with advancing age, but no pathologic associations have ever been established. We quantified Marinesco body frequency in human autopsy subjects, classified as young normal controls, elderly controls, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Alzheimer disease (AD), and Parkinson disease (PD). Elderly controls, AD cases, and DLB cases had significantly increased Marinesco body frequencies relative to young controls and DLB cases had significantly increased frequencies relative to elderly controls, while PD cases did not differ from young controls; cases with AD did not differ from elderly controls. Lewy body-containing neurons had significantly higher Marinesco body frequencies than non-Lewy body-containing neurons. Marinesco body frequency in elderly control cases correlated significantly, in inverse fashion, with striatal concentrations of the dopaminergic neuron markers dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase. These statistical associations suggest that Marinesco bodies constitute or mark a pathologic process that may be related to, or contribute to, age-related motor dysfunction and/or Lewy body disorders. Further studies are needed to ascertain the molecular basis of Marinesco body formation; preliminary studies indicate that proteasome dysfunction can lead to similar abnormalities in cultured cells."}
{"id": "15073255", "title": "Brain 18F-FDG PET in the diagnosis of neurodegenerative dementias: comparison with perfusion SPECT and with clinical evaluations lacking nuclear imaging.", "content": "Brain 18F-FDG PET in the diagnosis of neurodegenerative dementias: comparison with perfusion SPECT and with clinical evaluations lacking nuclear imaging. The clinical identification and differential diagnosis of dementias is especially challenging in the early stages, but the need for early, accurate diagnosis has become more important, now that several medications for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) are available. Many neurodegenerative diseases produce significant brain-function alterations detectable with PET or SPECT even when structural images with CT or MRI reveal no specific abnormalities. (18)F-FDG PET images of AD demonstrate focally decreased cerebral metabolism involving especially the posterior cingulate and neocortical association cortices, while largely sparing the basal ganglia, thalamus, cerebellum, and cortex mediating primary sensory and motor functions. Assessment of the precise diagnostic accuracy of PET had until recently been hindered by the paucity of data on diagnoses made using PET and confirmed by definitive histopathologic examination. In the past few years, however, studies comparing neuropathologic examination with PET have established reliable and consistent accuracy for diagnostic evaluations using PET-accuracies substantially exceeding those of comparable studies of the diagnostic value of SPECT or of both modalities assessed side by side, or of clinical evaluations done without nuclear imaging. Similar data are emerging concerning the prognostic value of (18)F-FDG PET. Improvements in the ability of PET to identify very early changes associated with AD and other neurodegenerative dementias are currently outpacing improvements in therapeutic options, but with advances in potential preventive and disease-modifying treatments appearing imminent, early detection and diagnosis will play an increasing role in the management of dementing illness."}
{"id": "15053341", "title": "Advances in neuroimaging for HIV-1 associated neurological dysfunction: clues to the diagnosis, pathogenesis and therapeutic monitoring.", "content": "Advances in neuroimaging for HIV-1 associated neurological dysfunction: clues to the diagnosis, pathogenesis and therapeutic monitoring. Persons with advanced human immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection seek medical advice for a wide range of neurological disorders including, but not limited to, peripheral neuropathy, toxoplasmosis, cryptococcal meningitis, cytomegalovirus retinitis progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, lymphoma and dementia. The diagnosis of HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD) induced as a direct consequence of HIV infection of the brain comes commonly by exclusion. Diagnostic decisions can often be clouded by concomitant depression, motor impairments, and lethargy that follow debilitating immune suppression and weight loss. Indeed, cognitive, motor and behavior abnormalities underlie a variety of neurological dysfunctions associated with advanced HIV-1 infection. Thus, even combinations of clinical, laboratory and neuroimaging tests [for example, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET)] often fail to provide conclusive diagnostic information. Nonetheless, the recent development of quantitative MR spectroscopic imaging has improved diagnostic possibilities for HAD. We are pleased to discuss these developments as well as taking a forward look into what will soon be made available to improve neuroimaging diagnostic precision. New MR and SPECT testing are being developed in our laboratories and elsewhere both for animal model systems and in humans with HIV-1 disease. Such tests can facilitate dynamic measures of HIV-1 neuropathogenesis providing information for disease events that even 2 years ago were unattainable."}
{"id": "15052786", "title": "[MRI findings in schizophrenic patient with frontal lobe atrophy].", "content": "[MRI findings in schizophrenic patient with frontal lobe atrophy]. In schizophrenic patients, cognitive and behavioral deficits are often associated with frontal lobe dysfunction. By functional neuroimaging studies, abnormalities of the frontal lobe (especially the prefrontal lobe) have been detected in schizophrenic patients. As for morphological changes on neuroimaging, lateral lobe atrophy and enlargement of the lateral ventricles or third ventricle are often reported, but there is no consensus as to whether frontal lobe atrophy is seen more frequently in schizophrenic patients compared with normal controls. The reasons for this disagreement include variations in the precision of measurement on MRI, differences in the methods of MRI among studies, and biases in the subjects being evaluated. Here we present a patient with schizophrenia and frontal lobe atrophy, which was clearly recognized on MRI and showed no progress in the 2 years following its detection. The patient was a 26-year-old woman with a 4.5-year history of schizophrenia when she was referred to us for the treatment of persistent auditory hallucinations and delusions. She showed no neurological findings apart from her psychiatric symptoms. Head MRI showed mild atrophy of the frontal lobe, and the extent of atrophy did not change over the following two years. On resting SPECT 99mTc-HMPAO, hypoperfusion of the bilateral frontal regions was demonstrated. There were no significant findings in the temporal lobe on either MRI or SPECT. She achieved low scores in neuropsychological tests of intelligence, memory, and frontal lobe-associated functions, and showed almost the same degrees of impairment in all of the tests in 2 years of follow-up. The possibility of degenerative diseases, such as young-onset frontotemporal dementia, was ruled out. She had a low intelligence quotient in the WAIS-R and her answers showed the specific pattern which is commonly seen in schizophrenic patients. There is a possibility that hypoperfusion on resting SPECT reflected not only frontal lobe atrophy, but also frontal lobe dysfunction in this patient. Frontal lobe dysfunction in schizophrenics is generally considered to be a secondary effect of meso-limbic system pathology. In this patient, however, the dysfunction seemed to arise from an intrinsic disorder of the frontal lobe, because frontal lobe abnormalities were conspicuous, whereas the temporal lobe was almost normal on both MRI and SPECT."}
{"id": "15049170", "title": "[Hashimoto's encephalopathy. Case report and literature review].", "content": "[Hashimoto's encephalopathy. Case report and literature review]. We present a 43-year-old man with recurrent episodes of Hashimoto's encephalopathy who was diagnosed with autoimmune thyroiditis in childhood. Encephalopathy started with subacute dementia followed by extrapyramidal and psychiatric symptoms of insidious onset. He had also status epilepticus which occurred within the first year of the disease. The patient was in euthyreosis, but increased levels of antithyroid antibodies were found. MRI of the brain was normal. Electroencephalography was initially normal and later showed diffuse slowing with generalized theta/delta activity. The cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed a high level of protein which decreased when remission of the disease was achieved. After other etiology was excluded Hashimoto's encephalopathy was diagnosed. Almost complete clinical recovery after steroid administration was observed. Attempts of prednisone withdrawal led to recurrence of neurological and psychiatric symptoms. The diagnosis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy should be considered in each case with subacute encephalopathy associated with high levels of antithyroid antibodies (despite normal thyroid function) and in the absence of other brain diseases."}
{"id": "15040658", "title": "Donepezil for alcohol-related dementia: a case report.", "content": "Donepezil for alcohol-related dementia: a case report. A 75-year old man with a 40-year history of alcoholism was admitted to the hospital for intoxication and inability to care for himself. He had been admitted frequently in the past for detoxification and rehabilitation. The patient had no family history of Alzheimer's disease, no history of head injury, and single-photon emission computed tomography showed no typical findings of Alzheimer's disease. His cognitive function was impaired. He was treated with donepezil for alcohol-related dementia, and 3 months later, his cognitive function had improved. More research is needed to confirm donepezil's role in treating alcohol-related dementia."}
{"id": "15033144", "title": "PET and SPECT functional imaging in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "PET and SPECT functional imaging in Parkinson's disease. Neuroimaging studies of the dopaminergic system with positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography radioligands are useful in the assessment of neuronal degeneration in Parkinson's disease. Abnormalities can be identified early in the disease process and used to monitor progression as well as the effect of treatment. Studies of dopamine receptors and brain metabolism can help identify those patients who have other Parkinsonian syndromes, such as multiple system atrophy, progressive sopranuclear palsy or diffuse Lewy body dementia. The current available diagnostic criteria for these disorders rely solely on the presence of signs and symptoms that may require months or years to become fully clinically manifest. Conversely, the use of neuroimaging techniques can significantly shorten the diagnostic process and prove a useful means to the neurologist in those cases presenting with uncertain clinical diagnosis."}
{"id": "15011337", "title": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism-dementia complex of the Kii peninsula of Japan].", "content": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism-dementia complex of the Kii peninsula of Japan]."}
{"id": "15011333", "title": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies]."}
{"id": "14997339", "title": "Reversible dementia in systemic lupus erythematosus without antiphospholipid antibodies or cerebral infarction.", "content": "Reversible dementia in systemic lupus erythematosus without antiphospholipid antibodies or cerebral infarction. Dementia is a very rare neurological manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and has a deep link with antiphospholipid antibodies (APL) and cerebral infarction in its development. However, nonvascular dementia irrelevant to APL or cerebral infarction has not been reported in patients with SLE until now. We describe a case of reversible dementia in an SLE patient without APL or cerebral infarction which was successfully treated with corticosteroid and cyclophosphamide. There are two significant points in this case. One is that humoral factors other than APL might be involved in the development of dementia. Secondly, reversible dementia without APL or cerebral infarction may respond more favorably to immunosuppressive therapy."}
{"id": "14991240", "title": "Effects of partial volume correction on discrimination between very early Alzheimer's dementia and controls using brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Effects of partial volume correction on discrimination between very early Alzheimer's dementia and controls using brain perfusion SPECT. We assessed the accuracy of brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in discriminating between patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) at the very early stage and age-matched controls before and after partial volume correction (PVC). Three-dimensional MRI was used for PVC. We randomly divided the subjects into two groups. The first group, comprising 30 patients and 30 healthy volunteers, was used to identify the brain area with the most significant decrease in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients compared with normal controls based on the voxel-based analysis of a group comparison. The second group, comprising 31 patients and 31 healthy volunteers, was used to study the improvement in diagnostic accuracy provided by PVC. A Z score map for a SPECT image of a subject was obtained by comparison with mean and standard deviation SPECT images of the healthy volunteers for each voxel after anatomical standardization and voxel normalization to global mean or cerebellar values using the following equation: Z score = ([control mean]-[individual value] )/(control SD). Analysis of receiver operating characteristics curves for a Z score discriminating AD and controls in the posterior cingulate gyrus, where a significant decrease in rCBF was identified in the first group, showed that the PVC significantly enhanced the accuracy of the SPECT diagnosis of very early AD from 73.9% to 83.7% with global mean normalization. The PVC mildly enhanced the accuracy from 73.1% to 76.3% with cerebellar normalization. This result suggests that early diagnosis of AD requires PVC in a SPECT study."}
{"id": "14975428", "title": "Normal pressure hydrocephalus manifesting as transient prosopagnosia, topographical disorientation, and visual objective agnosia.", "content": "Normal pressure hydrocephalus manifesting as transient prosopagnosia, topographical disorientation, and visual objective agnosia. Usually, dementia, gait disturbance and urinary incontinence are an integral part of the clinical presentation of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). However, NPH with transient visual cognitive disorders has not been reported previously. We herein describe an extremely rare case of NPH that presented with transient visual cognitive disorders and long lasting visual memory disturbances that subsided after CSF shunting. A 38-years-old man developed transient prosopagnosia, topographical disorientation, color vision disturbance, and visual objective agnosia that progressed over 5 years. Magnetic resonance images showed ventriculomegaly with ischemic lesions in the paraventricular deep white matter. ECD-SPECT showed a reduction of the cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the periventricular deep white matter. Three months after CSF shunting, the radiological findings normalized with dramatic improvement of the extremely rare symptoms."}
{"id": "14755719", "title": "The new mutation, E46K, of alpha-synuclein causes Parkinson and Lewy body dementia.", "content": "The new mutation, E46K, of alpha-synuclein causes Parkinson and Lewy body dementia. Familial parkinsonism and dementia with cortical and subcortical Lewy bodies is uncommon, and no genetic defect has been reported in the previously described sibships. We present a Spanish family with autosomal dominant parkinsonism, dementia, and visual hallucinations of variable severity. The postmortem examination showed atrophy of the substantia nigra, lack of Alzheimer pathology, and numerous Lewy bodies which were immunoreactive to alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin in cortical and subcortical areas. Sequencing of the alpha-synuclein gene showed a novel, nonconservative E46K mutation in heterozygosis. The E46K mutation was present in all affected family members and in three young asymptomatic subjects, but it was absent in healthy and pathological controls. The novel mutation, that substitutes a dicarboxylic amino acid, glutamic acid, with a basic amino acid such as lysine in a much conserved area of the protein, is likely to produce severe disturbance of protein function. Our data show that, in addition to the previously described hereditary alpha-synucleinopathies, dementia with Lewy bodies is related to mutation of alpha-synuclein."}
{"id": "14739542", "title": "Awareness of deficits in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: do MCI patients have impaired insight?", "content": "Awareness of deficits in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: do MCI patients have impaired insight? In this study we investigated impaired awareness of cognitive deficits in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Very few studies have addressed this topic, and methodological inconsistencies make the comparison of previous studies difficult. From a prospective research program 36 consecutive patients with mild AD (MMSE above 19), 30 with amnesic MCI and 33 matched controls were examined. Using three methods for awareness assessment we found no significant differences in the level of awareness between MCI and AD. Both groups had impaired awareness and significant heterogeneity in the clinical presentation of awareness. The results demonstrate that subjective memory problems should not be a mandatory prerequisite in suspected dementia or MCI, which makes reports from informants together with thorough clinical interview and observation central when assessing suspected dementia disorders."}
{"id": "14693108", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second commonest cause of neurodegenerative dementia in older people. It is part of the range of clinical presentations that share a neuritic pathology based on abnormal aggregation of the synaptic protein alpha-synuclein. DLB has many of the clinical and pathological characteristics of the dementia that occurs during the course of Parkinson's disease. Here we review the current state of scientific knowledge on DLB. Accurate identification of patients is important because they have specific symptoms, impairments, and functional disabilities that differ from those of other common types of dementia. Severe neuroleptic sensitivity reactions are associated with significantly increased morbidity and mortality. Treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors is well tolerated by most patients and substantially improves cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Clear guidance on the management of DLB is urgently needed. Virtually unrecognised 20 years ago, DLB could within this decade be one of the most treatable neurodegenerative disorders of late life."}
{"id": "14676466", "title": "Neuroimaging as a diagnostic tool in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Neuroimaging as a diagnostic tool in dementia with Lewy bodies. Due to similar presenting symptoms, many physicians find it difficult to distinguish cases of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease with dementia. The pathologic diagnosis of DLB has improved because of the discovery of probes for alpha-synuclein, a protein found in Lewy bodies. However, pathologic diagnosis can be employed postmortem only, and therefore diagnostic techniques that can be employed to guide patient management are still needed. Consensus criteria have been developed for establishing a clinical diagnosis of DLB, but they lack sensitivity. Therefore, a review of the recent literature was conducted to establish whether neuroimaging studies are useful diagnostic tools to help differentiate these syndromes. At least six types of tests can be used to image the brain of patients with dementia. Structural studies (x-ray, magnetic resonance imaging and computerized tomography) can disclose the presence of stroke sequelae and other lesions, whereas functional studies (magnetic resonance spectroscopy, positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography) can disclose metabolic and blood flow alterations that may be characteristic for different types of dementia. Although more formal studies are needed to confirm that these imaging techniques are reliable diagnostic tools for DLB and permit the establishment of guidelines for their use, neuroimaging techniques currently are being employed in practice to differentiate dementia types as a guide to treatment."}
{"id": "14676464", "title": "Pathology and neurotransmitter abnormalities of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Pathology and neurotransmitter abnormalities of dementia with Lewy bodies. The neuropathology of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is characterized by the presence of Lewy bodies (LBs) and Lewy neurites (LNs) in specific systems throughout the brainstem, diencephalon, basal ganglia and neocortex. DLB shares many features with Parkinson's disease (PD) with respect to LB distribution in the brainstem, and there is recent evidence that Lewy pathology (LP), which consists of LBs and LNs, may progress in a systematic fashion through the brain regardless of clinical phenotype. Increasing evidence supports a central role for LNs in Lewy neurodegeneration and engenders a 'neuritic dystrophy hypothesis' described herein. LP formation also occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias, and it is unclear whether there is a common underlying pathophysiology in these diseases or if the LP merely represents a common final pathway. Cholinergic deficits are evident in both DLB and AD, with reductions in acetylcholine and abnormalities in nicotinic and muscarinic receptor expression in both diseases. Cholinergic deficits are greater in DLB than in AD, although generally there is less brain atrophy in DLB. The lower neurodegeneration and preservation of cholinergic receptors in DLB has important therapeutic implications because patients with DLB (vs. AD) may receive greater benefits from cholinergic pharmacologic therapy. Patients with DLB who display parkinsonian signs have severe dopamine neurotransmitter deficiencies similar to those in patients with PD, although the manifestation of these deficiencies is different. Both groups have striatal dopamine transporter deficiencies, but the striatal dopamine D2 receptors are reduced in DLB patients compared with PD and control subjects. D2 receptor deficiencies in DLB may be the cause of the relative lack of response to levodopa treatment and the severe adverse reaction to neuroleptics in these patients."}
{"id": "14560061", "title": "Rapidly progressive aphasic dementia with motor neuron disease: a distinctive clinical entity.", "content": "Rapidly progressive aphasic dementia with motor neuron disease: a distinctive clinical entity. The association of motor neuron disease (MND) with rapidly progressive aphasic dementia has been recognized as a distinct clinical syndrome within the group of frontotemporal dementias (FTDs). Although the clinical and neuropsychological features of this syndrome have been defined, a small number of post-mortem studies have been published with heterogeneous neuropathological findings. We performed cognitive, neuro-imaging and neuropathological studies on a 71-year-old male with rapidly progressive aphasic dementia and MND. We initially found a selective non-fluent aphasia associated with hypoperfusion of the left frontotemporal cortex. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed an asymmetric change of brain metabolites, with greater changes in the left temporal lobe. The bulbar manifestations of MND occurred over the following 6 months, and the patient died of bronchopneumonia. The neuropathological examination revealed loss of neurons in the hypoglossal nucleus and anterior horns of the cervical spinal cord with microvacuolation and dot-like ubiquitin-positive deposits in the frontoparietotemporal cortex, but no changes suggestive of Alzheimer's, Pick's or Lewy body disease. These findings support the conclusion that MND with rapidly progressive aphasic dementia is a distinctive clinical entity within the group of FTD-MND."}
{"id": "12955099", "title": "Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor distribution in Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease, and vascular dementia: in vitro binding study using 5-[(125)i]-a-85380.", "content": "Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor distribution in Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease, and vascular dementia: in vitro binding study using 5-[(125)i]-a-85380. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been implicated in a number of neurological disorders. 5-Iodo-3-[2(S)-2-azetidinylmethoxy]pyridine (5-I-A-85380) is a novel nAChR marker, binding predominantly to the alpha4beta2 subtype. This in vitro autoradiography study describes the distribution of 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 binding in post-mortem brain tissue from normal elderly individuals and from cases with age-associated dementias of both neurodegenerative and vascular types. The binding distribution of 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 in normal brain tissue was found to be consistent with the reported distribution of other high-affinity nicotinic ligands. In addition to high thalamic and moderate striatal and temporal cortex density, moderate 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 binding was also seen in white matter tracts in cingulate, occipital, and temporal areas, indicating the presence of nAChRs along nerve fiber tracts, which has not been reported in other high-affinity nicotinic agonist distribution studies. In Parkinson's disease (PD), loss of striatal 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 binding closely parallels the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic markers previously observed. In dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) reduced striatal 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 binding density, comparable to that in PD, may be a marker of early degeneration in nigrostriatal inputs, while in Alzheimer's disease (AD) reduced striatal 5-[(125)I]-A-85380 binding could be related to reduced cortical inputs. The reductions of nAChRs seen in AD, DLB, and PD were not apparent in vascular dementia (VaD). In conclusion, 5-I-A-85380 is clearly a useful ligand for both in vitro and in vivo single photon emission tomography human studies investigating disease symptoms and progression, response to acetylcholinesterase-inhibiting drugs and in differentiating primary degenerative dementia from VaD."}
{"id": "16210224", "title": "Disrupted facial empathy in drawings from artists with frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Disrupted facial empathy in drawings from artists with frontotemporal dementia. The sense of empathy may be altered by brain disease. We report the drawing performance of four artists who developed frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The first three, but not the fourth, had a prominent decrease in empathy for others as well as alterations in their caricatures of people. Their drawings of faces became distorted, menacing, skeleton-like, or 'alien'. None of the four had facial recognition difficulties, problems in interpreting facial emotions, or a decreased appreciation of the distinction between animate and inanimate objects. Functional brain imaging in the patients revealed bilateral frontal hypometabolism or hypoperfusion, and the three with altered drawings had additional prominent involvement of the right temporal lobe. These FTD patients and the literature suggest that FTD, possibly with greater right temporal involvement, disrupts the sense of empathy from human faces."}
{"id": "16210222", "title": "Differential impairment of person-specific knowledge in a patient with semantic dementia.", "content": "Differential impairment of person-specific knowledge in a patient with semantic dementia. We report the case of ST, a 61-year-old gentleman of superior intelligence, who presented with a five-year history of slowly progressive word finding difficulty for proper names. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) showed marked atrophy in the left anterior temporal lobe and SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) demonstrated hypoperfusion in the left anterior and inferior temporal region. A detailed behavioral analysis of the integrity of his semantic system revealed naming deficits for both proper and common names. ST also showed severe impairments in person-specific semantic knowledge, but preservation of knowledge for famous places and common objects. ST's semantic knowledge deficit for people emerged whether he was tested with the faces or the names of famous individuals. Variables that affect name retrieval, such as familiarity, age of acquisition, and frequency of concept encounter, do not account for the selective impairment of person-specific knowledge evidenced by ST. Qualitative differences between the nature of knowledge representations for people and for common objects may underlie this effect. Disruptions in left temporal regions associated with semantic processing may be sufficient to produce a selective deficit in person-specific knowledge."}
{"id": "16191252", "title": "Functional brain imaging as a surrogate marker in vascular cognitive impairment.", "content": "Functional brain imaging as a surrogate marker in vascular cognitive impairment. Functional brain imaging represents cerebrovascular status, neuronal status, and neuronetwork status, and plays an increasingly important role in the evaluation of vascular cognitive impairment or vascular dementia. In this article, the roles of functional brain imaging are discussed in evaluation of subcortical lesions disrupting cortico-subcortical circuits and in the study of white-matter changes in dementia. Also mentioned is an ongoing clinical trial of extracranial-intracranial artery bypass surgery for hemispheric hemodynamic misery perfusion where single-photon emission tomography is used as a surrogate measure."}
{"id": "16191223", "title": "Potential biological markers for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Potential biological markers for cerebrovascular disease. Cerebrovascular diseases can causes cognitive impairment and dementia by loss of neurons and synaptic connections, destruction of axons, and demyelinization. Biological markers including genetic tests, brain imaging techniques, and biochemical assays in the CSF are valuable for the identification and quantification of cerebrovascular diseases. Genetic tests may be used to detect mutations that cause hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathies or cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL). Structural CT and MR imaging is routinely used to visualize and quantify infarcts and white-matter changes. Functional SPET and PET imaging can demonstrate focal and remote effects of vascular lesions on cerebral blood flow and metabolism. Biochemical imaging using proton MRS is a nonspecific marker for neuronal and axonal damage. Among biochemical markers in the CSF, tau protein, phospho-tau, and beta amyloid protein are helpful to differentiate vascular dementia from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "15098340", "title": "[Inferior frontal region hypoperfusion in Parkinson disease with dementia].", "content": "[Inferior frontal region hypoperfusion in Parkinson disease with dementia]. Dementia is more frequent in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD) then in general population. The mechanism for mental deterioration in PD remains controversial. The aim of our study was comparison of the regional cerebral perfusion quantified by single photon emission computed tomography in patients suffering from idiopathic Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. We examined 49 PD patients: 22 PD patients with dementia and 27 PD patients without dementia. Dementia was recognized according to ICD-10 and DSM-IV criteria. Cognitive functions were executed by means of the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and neuropsychological assessment. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and Modified Hoehn & Yahr Scale was used to quantify the severity of PD. SPECT was performed with Siemens Diacam single--head rotating gamma camera after intravenous application of technetium 99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO). The perfusion values were expressed as cortical or basal ganglia regions of interest (ROIs)/cerebellum activity ratios. In both examined group of patients the lowest uptake was in basal ganglia region, while the highest uptake was in occipital region. In the subgroup of PD patients with dementia significant hypoperfusion affecting the inferior frontal cortices was observed. In Parkinson's disease with dementia hypoperfusion in inferior frontal region can be found."}
{"id": "14762593", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia with severe thalamic involvement: a clinical and neuropathological study.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia with severe thalamic involvement: a clinical and neuropathological study. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the third-leading cause of cortical dementia after Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body dementia, and is characterized by a dementia where behavioral disturbances are prominent and appear early in the course of the disease. We report the case of a 58 year-old man affected by dementia with behavioral disturbances, in addition to rigid-hypokinetic and a lower motor neuron syndrome that were present at later stages of the illness. Neuroimaging studies showed frontotemporal atrophy. Neuropathological studies revealed intense thalamic neuronal loss and astrocytic gliosis, as well as moderate frontotemporal neuronal loss, astrocytosis and spongiform degeneration. Thalamic degeneration has previously been described among the wide group of neuropathological features of FTD. The aim of the present study is to show the clinical and neuropathological aspects of thalamic degeneration in FTD, along with its role in behavioral disturbances, a common finding in this condition."}
{"id": "14673877", "title": "Role of dopamine transporter imaging in routine clinical practice.", "content": "Role of dopamine transporter imaging in routine clinical practice. Functional imaging of the dopamine transporter (DAT) defines integrity of the dopaminergic system and has its main clinical application in patients with mild, incomplete, or uncertain parkinsonism. Imaging with specific single positron emission computerised tomography ligands for DAT (FP-CIT, beta-CIT, IPT, TRODAT) provides a marker for presynaptic neuronal degeneration. Striatal uptake correlates with disease severity, in particular bradykinesia and rigidity, and monitoring of progression assists in clinical trials of potential neuroprotective drugs. DAT imaging is abnormal in idiopathic Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy and does not distinguish between these disorders. Dopamine loss is seen even in the earliest clinical presentations of true parkinsonism; a normal scan suggests an alternative diagnosis such as essential tremor, vascular parkinsonism (unless there is focal basal ganglia infarction), drug-induced parkinsonism, or psychogenic parkinsonism. Congruence between working clinical diagnosis and DAT imaging increases over time in favour of baseline DAT imaging results. Additional applications are characterising dementia with parkinsonian features (abnormal results in dementia with Lewy bodies, normal in Alzheimer's disease); and differentiating juvenile-onset Parkinson's disease (abnormal DAT) from dopa-responsive dystonia (normal DAT)."}
{"id": "14639666", "title": "Measuring the rate of progression of Parkinson's disease over a 5-year period with beta-CIT SPECT.", "content": "Measuring the rate of progression of Parkinson's disease over a 5-year period with beta-CIT SPECT. Recent imaging studies suggest a rapid degeneration of the dopaminergic system in early Parkinson's disease (PD), followed by a slowing of the degenerative process in advanced disease. In the present study, a group of early-stage PD patients underwent three sequential [123I]beta-CIT SPECT studies to assess the decline of striatal dopamine transporter binding over a 5-year period. Twenty-one of a cohort of 24 early PD patients who participated in an earlier longitudinal beta-CIT SPECT imaging study [Mov Disord 2002;17:45-53] were included. Scan intervals were 26 +/- 11 months (scan 1-2) and 38 +/- 15 months (scan 2-3), respectively. The relative annual rate of decline of striatal beta-CIT binding from age-expected normal values at the time of Scan 1 was used as primary outcome variable. The relative annual decline of striatal binding from Scan 1 to Scan 2 (4.5 +/- 4.6%) and from Scan 2 to Scan 3 (3.0 +/- 3.0%) was not significantly different. The non-significant difference in progression rate was due mainly to the rapid early decline of striatal binding in 1 patient who subsequently developed a severe dysexecutive dementia syndrome. These data are not suggestive of substantial change in the course of dopaminergic degeneration in PD within the first 5 to 7 years after symptom onset."}
{"id": "14609813", "title": "Semantic dementia: neuropsychological and behavioral patterns in relation to hemispheric asymmetries.", "content": "Semantic dementia: neuropsychological and behavioral patterns in relation to hemispheric asymmetries."}
{"id": "14609583", "title": "Diagnostic challenges of using CSF assay of tau and beta-amyloid(42) in atypical degenerative dementias of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Diagnostic challenges of using CSF assay of tau and beta-amyloid(42) in atypical degenerative dementias of the Alzheimer type. This report presents three cases of atypical degenerative dementias in order to illustrate challenges associated with the use of biologic markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) for diagnosis and management. Clinical diagnostic methods followed the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for AD. Additional diagnostic studies included serial neurocognitive testing, MRI, neuroSPECT, ApoE genotyping, and a CSF assay of tau and beta-amyloid(42). For patient 1, both the clinical and biologic markers were consistent with AD. The patient was diagnosed with AD with a high degree of confidence, even though the base rate of nonfamilial AD at this age group (<55 years) is exceedingly rare. This case argues favorably for the use of biologic markers to aid in confirming a diagnosis in an atypical dementia. Patient 2 met the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for AD, although with less confidence. Neurocognitive data indicated a progressive right hemispheric syndrome, insight was preserved, and ApoE was 3/3, but tau concentrations and beta-amyloid(42) were highly consistent with cut-offs for AD; the differential fell on the Pick's disease/frontotemporal degeneration spectrum. Patient 3 had no clinical evidence of the disease, even when evaluated via extensive neurocognitive testing over a 2-year interval. However, ApoE was 4/4, and CSF assay of tau and beta-amyloid(42) were within the AD range. Therefore, while the CSF assay of tau and beta-amyloid(42) markers was confirmatory of AD, each case was highly atypical. Results illustrate the lack of normative data available when using biologic markers for highly atypical cases, calling into question their usefulness for such patients. These cases illustrate the interplay between neuropsychological and biological markers in establishing neurodegenerative diagnoses."}
{"id": "14607313", "title": "The effect of cholinesterase inhibitors on the regional blood flow in patients with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "The effect of cholinesterase inhibitors on the regional blood flow in patients with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. The effects of therapy with cholinesterase inhibitors (ChE-I) on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) disturbances were investigated by means of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The changes in rCBF were compared with the results of the medical examination and neuropsychological tests. The sample consisted of 41 patients with the Alzheimer's dementia (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). The effect of ChE-I (rivastigmine) treatment was studied on 33 patients, while the nontreated control group consisted of 8 patients. In the treated patients, an increase in the rCBF was observed, while the scores of the neuropsychological tests decreased slightly. In the VaD group, the increase in rCBF was more significant in the frontal regions, whereas in the group with AD in the temporal regions, respectively. In the nontreated patients, a decrease of both rCBF and scores of neuropsychological tests were observed. The scores of the neuropsychological tests correlated with the results of rCBF. Increased levels of acetylcholine in the brain after ChE-I treatment may support the cholinergic regulation of rCBF, and in result increase it. Such effects seem to be more pronounced in the more affected brain regions."}
{"id": "14598067", "title": "Dopaminergic degeneration and perfusional impairment in Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dopaminergic degeneration and perfusional impairment in Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The clinical differentiation of Lewy body dementia (LBD) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be difficult. The aim of the present study was to assess the dopamine transporter function and the perfusional pattern in LBD and AD in vivo. Twenty patients with probable LBD and 24 with probable AD underwent on 2 separate days a brain perfusional SPECT with 99mTc-ECD and a SPECT with (123)I-FP-CIT, a ligand of dopamine transporter. In LBD a significantly ( p<0.0005) lower ratio of specific (bilateral caudate nucleus, putamen) to non-specific (occipital cortex) (123)I-FP-CIT binding than in AD was reported. Perfusional data (SPM analysis) showed a significant ( p<0.001) decrease of temporo-parietal blood flow in AD versus LBD, whereas in LBD a significant ( p<0.001) occipital hypoperfusion with respect to AD was reported. Our findings confirm that dopaminergic nigrostriatal function is impaired in LBD. The selective occipital hypoperfusion in LBD needs to be further investigated."}
{"id": "14581673", "title": "Speech and language in progressive nonfluent aphasia compared with early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Speech and language in progressive nonfluent aphasia compared with early Alzheimer's disease. Progressive nonfluent aphasia (PA) is a slow deterioration of language that remains relatively isolated from other cognitive or behavioral deficits for at least 2 years. The differentiation of PA from early Alzheimer's disease (AD) is important, given the presence of early language changes in AD. A language assessment was administered to 15 patients who met established criteria for PA, 15 patients with clinically probable AD and mild dementia, and 15 normal control subjects. The language battery included verbal fluency, the Boston Naming Test with cuing and recognition, and an aphasia test battery with a motor speech exam. Pronounced literal paraphasic errors distinguished the PA patients from the AD patients. The PA group had anomia, decreased letter fluency, neologisms, difficulty on phrase repetition, decreased phrase length, and a decreased rate of verbal output. Interference from paraphasic anomia accounted for much of their decreased fluency. Many patients with PA have a primary defect in accessing sound-based representation of speech (phonemes), similar to conduction aphasia, possibly as a consequence of disturbed white matter tracts in the left superior temporal region."}
{"id": "14579478", "title": "[Alzheimer's dementia. Advances in diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[Alzheimer's dementia. Advances in diagnosis and therapy]."}
{"id": "14579087", "title": "A new approach for improving diagnostic accuracy in Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia utilising the intrinsic properties of the SPET dataset.", "content": "A new approach for improving diagnostic accuracy in Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia utilising the intrinsic properties of the SPET dataset. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontal lobe dementia (FLD) show characteristic patterns of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). However, these patterns may overlap with those observed in the aging brain in elderly normal individuals. The aim of this study was to develop a new method for better classification and recognition of AD and FLD cases as compared with normal controls. Forty-six patients with AD, 7 patients with FLD and 34 normal controls (CTR) were included in the study. rCBF was assessed by technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime and a three-headed single-photon emission tomography (SPET) camera. A brain atlas was used to define volumes of interest (VOIs) corresponding to the brain lobes. In addition to conventional image processing methods, based on count density/voxel, the new approach also analysed other intrinsic properties of the data by means of gradient computation steps. Hereby, five factors were assessed and tested separately: the mean count density/voxel and its histogram, the mean gradient and its histogram, and the gradient angle co-occurrence matrix. A feature vector concatenating single features was also created and tested. Preliminary feature discrimination was performed using a two-sided t-test and a K-means clustering was then used to classify the image sets into categories. Finally, five-dimensional co-occurrence matrices combining the different intrinsic properties were computed for each VOI, and their ability to recognise the group to which each individual scan belonged was investigated. For correct classification of the AD-CTR groups, the gradient histogram in the parieto-temporal lobes was the most useful single feature (accuracy 91%). FLD and CTR were better classified by the count density/voxel histogram (frontal and occipital lobes) and by the mean gradient (frontal, temporal and parietal lobes, accuracy 98%). For AD and FLD the count density/voxel histogram in the frontal, parietal and occipital lobes classified the groups with the highest accuracy (85%). The concatenated joint feature correctly classified 96% of the AD-CTR, 98% of the FLD-CTR and 94% of the AD-FLD cases. 5D co-occurrence matrices correctly recognised 98% of the AD-CTR cases, 100% of the FLD-CTR cases and 98% of the AD-FLD cases. The proposed approach classified and diagnosed AD and FLD patients with higher accuracy than conventional analytical methods used for rCBF-SPET. This was achieved by extracting from the SPET data the intrinsic information content in each of the selected VOIs."}
{"id": "14579086", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow assessed with 99mTc-ECD SPET as a marker of progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow assessed with 99mTc-ECD SPET as a marker of progression of mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease. Patients diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, not all such patients develop this kind of dementia. The purpose of this prospective study was to assess whether regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) patterns measured with technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer single-photon emission tomography ((99m)Tc-ECD SPET) in patients suffering from MCI are useful in predicting progression to AD. The study group comprised 42 patients who fulfilled MCI criteria according to the International Psychogeriatric Association and the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study. rCBF was calculated in 16 regions of interest (ROIs). All patients were clinically assessed for 1-3 years. Twenty-one developed AD (group I) while the initial diagnosis of MCI was retained in the other 21 (group II). ROC curves were designed, and sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood ratios were determined for each ROI. Compared with group II (MCI), group I (AD) showed a significant reduction of relative blood flow (RBF), ranging from 7% to 10%, in the following areas: right and left prefrontal, right and left frontal, right and left parietal, right and left temporal, right and left frontoparietotemporal and left posterior lateral temporal. Left prefrontal, left frontal and left parietal areas showed sensitivities and specificities higher than 75% and areas below the ROC curve close to 80%. This study shows that RBF patterns in the right and left prefrontal, right and left frontal and left parietal areas are sensitive early markers of progression towards AD. Reduction of rCBF in the medial temporal and anterior lateral temporal cortex has no value as a predictor since it also occurs in patients with MCI who remain stable."}
{"id": "14571357", "title": "Fluoxetine in Alzheimer's disease with severe obsessive compulsive symptoms and a low density of serotonin transporter sites.", "content": "Fluoxetine in Alzheimer's disease with severe obsessive compulsive symptoms and a low density of serotonin transporter sites. The treatment of behavioral disturbances is particularly challenging in patients suffering from dementia. In an 80-year-old female patient with probable AD and severe obsessive and compulsive symptoms, we demonstrated a significant reduction in the density of serotonin transporter sites using 1231-beta-CIT SPECT. Treatment with fluoxetine for 6 months resulted in significant symptom relief and an increasing density of serotonin transporter sites when compared to the beginning of treatment. Therefore, this report provides evidence that fluoxetine is a treatment option for patients with AD and severe obsessive-compulsive symptoms and highlights the importance of the serotoninergic system."}
{"id": "14568499", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia. Tc99 HMPAO SPECT and T1 weighted 3D MRI scans were acquired in cognitively intact subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) (n = 31), and in PD subjects with dementia (PDD) (n = 34), healthy controls (n = 37), those with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 32), and those with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) (n = 15). We used SPM99 to look for regions which showed a reduction in perfusion on SPECT not related to associated structural brain changes assessed by a MRI scan. The precuneus and inferior lateral parietal regions showed a perfusion deficit in Parkinson's disease with dementia, similar to the pattern observed in DLB. In comparison, AD showed a perfusion deficit in the midline parietal region, in a more anterior and inferior location than in PDD, involving the posterior cingulate as well as the precuneus. The perfusion deficits in PDD are similar those in DLB, and in a location associated with visual processing, and may be associated with the visuospatial perception deficits which are present in persons with DLB and PDD."}
{"id": "14561797", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia--a language-based dementia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia--a language-based dementia."}
{"id": "14558247", "title": "[Dementia caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. Clinical case].", "content": "[Dementia caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. Clinical case]. Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency can cause polyneuropathy, myelopathy, blindness, confusion, psychosis and dementia. Nonetheless, its deficiency as the sole cause of dementia is infrequent. We report a 59 years old man with a 6 months history of progressive loss of memory, disorientation, apathy, paranoid delusions, gait difficulties with falls, and urinary incontinence. He had suffered a similar episode 3 years before, with a complete remission. On examination there was frontal type dementia with Korsakoff syndrome, a decrease in propioception and ataxic gait. Cerebrospinal fluid examination showed a protein of 0.42 g/L. Brain computed tomography showed sequelae of a frontal left trauma. Brain single photon computed tomography (SPECT) was normal. Complete blood count showed a macrocytic anemia with a hematocrit 29% and a mean corpuscular volume of 117 micron3. Plasma vitamin B12 levels were undetectable, erythrocyte folate levels were 3.9 ng/ml and plasma folate was normal. The myelogram showed megaloblastosis and the gastric biopsy showed atrophic gastritis. Treatment with parenteral B12 vitamin and folic acid reverted the symptoms, with normalization of the neuropsychological tests and reintegration to work."}
{"id": "14531044", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies versus Alzheimer's disease: role of dopamine transporter imaging.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies versus Alzheimer's disease: role of dopamine transporter imaging. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are the common forms of dementia at post-mortem, but distinguishing between these two types of dementia is often very difficult during life. Ioflupane significantly improves the differentiation during life between DLB and AD patients. However, there is a trend for lower caudate uptake in DLB than PD and lower posterior/caudal putamen uptake in PD than in DLB. Further research is needed to test the hypothesis that dopaminergic degeneration may be different, at least regarding anatomical distribution, in DLB and PD. Furthermore, it is important to consider and discuss the potential for ioflupane in the diagnostic workup of patients with DLB."}
{"id": "14523098", "title": "Fine structure and biochemical mechanisms underlying nigrostriatal inclusions and cell death after proteasome inhibition.", "content": "Fine structure and biochemical mechanisms underlying nigrostriatal inclusions and cell death after proteasome inhibition. Mutation of genes encoding for various components of a metabolic pathway named the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UP) leads to inherited forms of Parkinson's disease (PD), whereas various components of the UP are constantly present within neuronal inclusions, Lewy bodies, that characterize most genetic and sporadic forms of PD. It has been hypothesized that impairment of this metabolic pathway might be a common mechanism for the onset of PD, and a recent study demonstrated a dysfunction of the UP system within the substantia nigra of patients affected by sporadic PD. In search for the mechanisms underlying the selective toxicity for nigral neurons after inhibition of the UP system, we explored the selective effects after striatal microinfusions of lactacystin or epoxomycin and potential retrograde changes within the ipsilateral substantia nigra. We found that neurotoxicity was selective for striatal dopamine (DA) components and led to retrograde apoptosis within nigral DA cells, which developed neuronal inclusions staining for antigens of the UP system. We found the same ultrastructural features characterizing inclusions obtained in vivo and in vitro after UP inhibition. In vivo, lactacystin-epoxomycin-induced toxicity was suppressed by inhibiting DA synthesis. Similarly, in vitro inclusions and apoptosis were prevented by reducing endogenous DA. On the other hand, toxicity of proteasome inhibition was enhanced by drugs augmenting DA availability: l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, monoamine oxidase blockers, and DA beta-hydroxylase blockers. These findings demonstrate that impairment of the UP system produces cell death and neuronal inclusions selectively for DA-containing neurons that depend on the occurrence of endogenous DA."}
{"id": "14515342", "title": "Rotenone increases glutamate-induced dopamine release but does not affect hydroxyl-free radical formation in rat striatum.", "content": "Rotenone increases glutamate-induced dopamine release but does not affect hydroxyl-free radical formation in rat striatum. Impairment of the mitochondrial complex I has been found in Parkinson's disease and recently long-term treatment with the complex I inhibitor rotenone led to neurodegeneration and Lewy body-like inclusions in rats. To investigate the relationship of free radical formation, complex I inhibition, and dopamine release, rotenone (15 mg/kg s.c.) was injected in male Sprague Dawley rats. Complex I inhibition was measured in the striatum and substantia nigra using the lactate accumulation assay. Dopamine release and free radical formation was determined using striatal microdialysis in combination with the salicylate hydroxylation assay. In a second experiment, glutamate (10 mM) stimulation via the microdialysis probe was used to provoke hydroxyl radical formation and dopamine release 60 min after rotenone or vehicle pretreatment. Rotenone significantly increased striatal and nigral lactate levels. However, rotenone did not produce a significant increase in hydroxyl radical formation and dopamine release, but led to a pronounced hypokinesia. In contrast, rotenone in comparison to vehicle pretreatment produced a significant augmentation of glutamate-induced dopamine release (67-fold and 31-fold increase, respectively) and did not affect the glutamate-induced hydroxyl free radical formation (23-fold and 21-fold increase, respectively). The present study demonstrates that a single systemic rotenone administration does not lead to neurotoxicity, but rather to enhanced glutamate-induced dopamine release with no further increase of hydroxyl free radical formation. Thus, acute complex I inhibition in the presence or absence of high extracellular dopamine and glutamate levels is not critically involved in the formation of hydroxyl free radicals."}
{"id": "14503353", "title": "[Transient dementia during hyperthyroidism of painless thyroiditis. A case report].", "content": "[Transient dementia during hyperthyroidism of painless thyroiditis. A case report]. We report transient dementia in a 71-year-old woman, that was caused by hyperthyroidism of painless thyroiditis. Her friends, who found her very forgetful and performing abnormal behavior, brought her to our hospital. She looked alert and cooperative. There was neither goiter nor pain of the thyroid. Neurological examination revealed impairment of recent memory with a low score of memory test (MMSE: 20/30) indicating mild dementia. EEG showed slow alpha waves (8 Hz) with random theta and delta waves in the frontotemporal regions bilaterally. MRI showed mild diffuse atrophy of the brain, and SPECT revealed diffuse decrease in the cerebral blood flow most predominantly in the frontotemporal regions bilaterally. Abnormal findings included low levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), high levels of free triiodothyronine and free thyroxine. Antithyrogloblin antibody was positive and TSH receptor antibody was negative, while CRP was normal. Radioactive Tc uptake of the thyroid gland was low. A diagnosis of painless thyroiditis was made. Thyroid function turned to euthyroid state spontaneously in four weeks without antithyroid therapy, and subsequently memory disturbance and abnormal behavior disappeared. SPECT after clinical recovery showed improvement in the cerebral blood flow of the frontotemporal lobes. To our knowledge, dementia-like symptoms secondary to hyperthyroidism of painless thyroiditis have not been reported previously, and should be kept in mind as one of the causes of treatable dementia."}
{"id": "14502661", "title": "Use of functional imaging in Parkinsonism and dementia.", "content": "Use of functional imaging in Parkinsonism and dementia. Neuropsychiatric symptoms, including dementia, frequently coexist with parkinsonian disorders and may cause diagnostic confusion as well as management problems. Functional imaging studies include single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, and functional magnetic resonance imaging. This review addresses the utility of these techniques, from the clinician's perspective, focusing on the most common causes of parkinsonism and cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease with dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease. The potential and limitations of these techniques for accurate and early diagnosis, monitoring disease progression, and establishing the pathophysiological basis underlying key clinical features are considered. The development of new probes for SPECT and PET cameras capable of labeling protein aggregates (e.g., beta-amyloid) will offer exciting new insights into the spatial and temporal pattern of pathophysiological processes. Longitudinal studies with clinicopathological correlation represent the \"gold standard\" for fully evaluating functional imaging techniques."}
{"id": "13680454", "title": "Ganser symptoms in a case of frontal-temporal lobe dementia: is there a common neural substrate?", "content": "Ganser symptoms in a case of frontal-temporal lobe dementia: is there a common neural substrate? Neuropsychological testing was completed in a patient who showed cognitive decline of mental functions, unusual answers to questions, and other characteristics of what has typically been described in the literature as the \"Ganser Syndrome.\" Clear evidence of malingering on a memory test seemed to confirm that this patient was exaggerating deficits for psychiatric reasons or secondary gain, yet the patient showed evidence of mild organic impairment on MRI and continued to deteriorate in cognitive functions and basic self-care. Although an initial SPECT scan had suggested a pattern inconsistent with dementia, a second scan showed frontal-temporal perfusion deficits. Based on this scan and the clinical picture of progressive deterioration, a diagnosis of frontal-temporal lobe dementia was made. This case illustrates that the seemingly deliberate selection of incorrect responses may occur in the early stages of an organic dementia, and that a diagnosis of frontal-temporal lobe dementia should be considered in cases where symptoms appear to be psychiatric or nonorganic. The case further raises the question of whether the reported symptoms of Ganser Syndrome may be accounted for by frontal-temporal lobe dysfunction, since there appears to be some overlap between symptoms of Ganser Syndrome and frontal-temporal lobe dementia. It is also important to note that many reported cases of Ganser Syndrome had a history of head injury."}
{"id": "13677801", "title": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer disease: an evidence-based review.", "content": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer disease: an evidence-based review. Current clinical criteria (DSM-IIIR and NINCDS-ADRDA) for the diagnosis of dementia and AD are reliable; however, these criteria remain to be validated by clinicians of different levels of expertise at different clinical settings. Structural neuroimaging has an important role in initial evaluation of dementia for ruling out potentially treatable causes. Although CT is the appropriate choice when brain tumors, subdural hematoma, or normal pressure hydrocephalus is suspected, MR imaging is more sensitive to the white-matter changes in vascular dementia. The diagnostic accuracy of PET, SPECT, 1H MRS, and MR volumetry of the hippocampus for distinguishing patients with AD from healthy elderly individuals is comparable to the accuracy of a pathologically confirmed clinical diagnosis. Sensitivity of PET for distinguishing patients with dementia with Lewy bodies from AD, however, is higher than that of clinical evaluation; similarly, SPECT and 1H MRS may be adjuncts to clinical evaluation for distinguishing patients with frontotemporal dementia from those with AD. Neuroimaging is valuable in predicting future development of AD in patients with MCI and in carriers of the ApoE epsilon 4 allele who are at a higher risk of developing AD than are cognitively normal elderly individuals. Quantitative MR techniques (e.g., MR volumetry, DWI, magnetization transfer MR imaging, and 1H MRS) and PET are sensitive to the structural and functional changes in the brains of patients with MCI, and hippocampal volumes on MR imaging are associated with future development of AD in these individuals. PET is also sensitive to the regional metabolic decline in the brains of carriers of the ApoE epsilon 4 allele. The longitudinal decrease of whole brain and hippocampal volumes on MR imaging, NAA levels on 1H MRS, cerebral glucose metabolism on PET, and cerebral blood flow on SPECT are associated with rate of cognitive decline in patients with AD. These neuroimaging markers may be useful for monitoring symptomatic progression in groups of patients with AD for drug trials. Furthermore, antemortem MR-based hippocampal volumes correlate with the pathologic stage of AD, and the rate of hippocampal volume loss on MR imaging correlates with clinical disease progression in the cognitive continuum from normal aging to MCI and to AD. Hence, as an in vivo correlate of pathologic involvement, structural imaging measures are potential surrogate markers for disease progression in patients with established AD and in patients with prodromal AD, who will benefit most from disease-modifying therapies underway."}
{"id": "12975292", "title": "Neuroradiological study of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia complex on the Kii peninsula of Japan.", "content": "Neuroradiological study of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia complex on the Kii peninsula of Japan. The Kii peninsula of Japan, together with Guam and West New Guinea, has one of the highest incidences of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) in the world. To perform neuroimaging studies on patients with ALS and PDC on the Kii peninsula. Results of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single-photon emission computed tomography were studied in 4 patients with ALS and in 10 patients with PDC from the Hohara village on the Kii peninsula of Japan. In patients with PDC, there was mild to severe atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging and a marked decrease in cerebral blood flow on single-photon emission computed tomography. In contrast, in patients with ALS, there was a decrease in cerebral blood flow of the frontal and temporal lobes, although the patients did not show signs of clinical dementia or obvious brain atrophy on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The finding of an obvious decrease in cerebral blood flow of the frontal and temporal lobes in patients with PDC and ALS with or without cerebral atrophy supports the concept that the 2 conditions are different manifestations of a single frontotemporal tauopathy."}
{"id": "12958153", "title": "Modulation of dopamine transporter function by alpha-synuclein is altered by impairment of cell adhesion and by induction of oxidative stress.", "content": "Modulation of dopamine transporter function by alpha-synuclein is altered by impairment of cell adhesion and by induction of oxidative stress. Human alpha-synuclein accumulates in dopaminergic neurons as intraneuronal inclusions, Lewy bodies, which are characteristic of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we suggest that modulation of the functional activity of the dopamine transporter (DAT) by alpha-synuclein may be a key factor in the preferential degeneration of mesencephalic dopamine (DA)-synthesizing neurons in PD. In cotransfected Ltk-, HEK 293, and SK-N-MC cells, alpha-synuclein induced a 35% decrease in [3H]DA uptake. Biotinylated DAT levels were decreased by 40% in cotransfected cells relative to cells expressing only DAT. DAT was colocalized with alpha-synuclein in mesencephalic neurons and cotransfected Ltk- cells. Coimmunoprecipitation studies showed the existence of a complex between alpha-synuclein and DAT, in specific rat brain regions and cotransfected cells, through specific amino acid motifs of both proteins. The attenuation of DAT function by alpha-synuclein was cytoprotective, because DA-mediated oxidative stress and cell death were reduced in cotransfected cells. The neurotoxin MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium), oxidative stress, or impairment of cell adhesion ablated the alpha-synuclein-mediated inhibition of DAT activity, which caused increased uptake of DA and increased biotinylated DAT levels, in both mesencephalic neurons and cotransfected cells. These studies suggest a novel normative role for alpha-synuclein in regulating DA synaptic availability and homeostasis, which is relevant to the pathophysiology of PD."}
{"id": "12955398", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia as the initial manifestation of corticobasal degeneration and unusual tauopathies.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia as the initial manifestation of corticobasal degeneration and unusual tauopathies. The clinical, neuroradiological, neuropathological and biochemical findings in four patients with primary progressive aphasia and tauopathy are described. The aphasic syndrome preceded by several years the appearance of other symptoms in every case. Asymmetrical apraxia with alien hand phenomenon occurred in one case. Frontotemporal symptoms occurred in three cases, but progressed to dramatic cognitive devastation in only one of these. Generalized dementia consistent with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) developed with time in another. Cerebral computer tomography scans, magnetic resonance imaging and SPECT studies revealed marked asymmetries in one case, and showed nonspecific cerebral atrophy in the remaining ones. The neuropathological examination revealed typical corticobasal degeneration (CBD) in one case; CBD and AD in another; and atypical CBD, argyrophilic grain disease (AGD) and alpha-synucleinopathy consistent with Parkinson's disease in a third. Unique neuropathological findings were found in the remaining case. This was characterized by severe cerebral atrophy, marked neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex and abnormal tau deposition in neurons of the cerebral cortex, diencephalon and brain stem. Ballooned neurons, Pick bodies, generalized cortical neurofibrillary tangles and astrocytic plaques were absent. However, massive globular inclusions, containing phospho-tau, occurred in glial cells, mainly oligodendrocytes, in the white matter. Biochemical studies of frontal homogenates revealed four bands of 73/74, 68, 64 and 60 kDa of phosphorylated tau (using antibodies recognizing phospho-tau Thr181, Ser262 and Ser422) in the patient with AD and CBD, suggesting a predominant AD pattern in this case. Two bands of 68 and 64 kDa of phospho-tau were recovered in the sarkosyl-insoluble fraction in the other three cases. This pattern is similar to that found in CBD, progressive supranuclear palsy and AGD. Taken together, the present series further supports pure and combined CBD as causes of primary progressive aphasia, and they extend the hypothesis that primary progressive aphasia may be the initial symptom of distinct tauopathies."}
{"id": "12955214", "title": "[PET and SPECT investigations in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[PET and SPECT investigations in Alzheimer's disease]. Nuclear medicine offers a wide range of possibilities to investigate dementia. Various SPECT and PET tracers will be introduced in this article first. Different questions concerning evaluation of dementia are discussed taking Alzheimer's disease (AD) as an example. It is important to perform nuclear medicine investigations on high technical level, using standardized methods as statistical parametric mapping (SPM) for evaluation. If neuroprotective therapies are available, an early diagnosis, the determination of risk factors and longitudinal investigations will be the focus of interest and the main goal of nuclear medicine. Apart from measuring cerebral perfusion and glucose metabolism the development of new ligands, concerning the cholinergic system and the visualization of amyloid plaques, is of great importance."}
{"id": "12946088", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of neuropsychological tests for mild cognitive impairment, vascular cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of neuropsychological tests for mild cognitive impairment, vascular cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Early diagnosis of dementia is important for those who might benefit from treatment. We designed a brief comprehensive neuropsychological test battery to help differentiate control subjects from patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia. The battery included tests of memory, attention, executive function, speed, perception and visuospatial skills. It was administered to subjects from the OPTIMA cohort: 51 controls, 29 with MCI, 60 with 'possible' or 'probable' Alzheimer's disease (AD) (NINCDS/ADRDA) and 12 with cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Mann-Whitney U tests were used to compare performance of controls with other diagnostic groups. The sensitivity and specificity of the tests were determined using Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analyses. The effects of age, gender and years of education on test performance were determined with Spearman's rank correlations. The AD group performed worse than controls on all tests except an attention task. The Hopkins Verbal Learning Test and The Placing Test for episodic memory showed significant discriminative capacity between controls and other groups. Attention and processing speed tests discriminated CVD from controls. Category fluency, episodic memory tests and the CLOX test for executive function distinguished MCI from AD. Spearman's correlations showed negative associations between age and processing speed. Years of education affected performance on all tests, except The Placing Test. Certain neuropsychological tests have been shown to be sensitive and specific in the differential diagnosis of various types of dementia and may prove to be useful for detection of MCI."}
{"id": "12932111", "title": "Development of quantitative analysis method for stereotactic brain image: assessment of reduced accumulation in extent and severity using anatomical segmentation.", "content": "Development of quantitative analysis method for stereotactic brain image: assessment of reduced accumulation in extent and severity using anatomical segmentation. Through visual assessment by three-dimensional (3D) brain image analysis methods using stereotactic brain coordinates system, such as three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections and statistical parametric mapping, it is difficult to quantitatively assess anatomical information and the range of extent of an abnormal region. In this study, we devised a method to quantitatively assess local abnormal findings by segmenting a brain map according to anatomical structure. Through quantitative local abnormality assessment using this method, we studied the characteristics of distribution of reduced blood flow in cases with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). Using twenty-five cases with DAT (mean age, 68.9 years old), all of whom were diagnosed as probable Alzheimer's disease based on NINCDS-ADRDA, we collected I-123 iodoamphetamine SPECT data. A 3D brain map using the 3D-SSP program was compared with the data of 20 cases in the control group, who age-matched the subject cases. To study local abnormalities on the 3D images, we divided the whole brain into 24 segments based on anatomical classification. We assessed the extent of an abnormal region in each segment (rate of the coordinates with a Z-value that exceeds the threshold value, in all coordinates within a segment), and severity (average Z-value of the coordinates with a Z-value that exceeds the threshold value). This method clarified orientation and expansion of reduced accumulation, through classifying stereotactic brain coordinates according to the anatomical structure. This method was considered useful for quantitatively grasping distribution abnormalities in the brain and changes in abnormality distribution."}
{"id": "12924492", "title": "Usefulness of [123I]metaiodobenzylguanidine ([123I]MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy in differentiating between Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Usefulness of [123I]metaiodobenzylguanidine ([123I]MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy in differentiating between Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. To confirm the clinical usefulness of [123I] metaiodobenzylguanidine ([123I]MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy in the antemortem differential diagnosis between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and those with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We compared cardiac [123I] MIBG uptake in 10 patients with AD with that in 10 patients with DLB. We selected the patients with AD or DLB by using stringent diagnostic criteria that combined commonly used clinical criteria with tau protein levels in cerebrospinal fluid and radiographical examinations. The heart to mediastinum ratio of [123I]MIBG uptake in all the patients with DLB was significantly lower than that in the patients with AD (p<0.01). This study confirms that [123I]MIBG myocardial scintigraphy is useful in the antemortem differential diagnosis of AD and DLB."}
{"id": "12917125", "title": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia. Alzheimer disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are the two major diseases that cause dementia, and early diagnosis is important. Single photon emission CT (SPECT) of cerebral blood flow (CBF) is used for the early detection of dementia and as an auxiliary method for follow-up. AD shows reduced posterior blood flow and VaD manifests reduced anterior blood flow on CBF SPECT images. We examined the usefulness of 3D fractal analysis of CBF SPECT images to objectively quantify the heterogeneity of CBF in patients with AD and VaD. Thirty-two patients with AD and 22 with VaD based on neuropsychologic tests and imaging findings, as well as 20 age-matched control subjects underwent technetium-99m hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime CBF SPECT. We then conducted statistical image processing by 3D fractal analysis on reconstructed data. Fractal dimension, an index of heterogeneity, was then calculated for the whole brain, as well as for the anterior and posterior regions of the brain. A higher fractal dimension indicates that the CBF SPECT image is uneven. The ratio of fractal dimension of the anterior region to fractal dimension of the posterior region (A/P ratio) was calculated. Heterogeneity of CBF was compared among the AD, VaD, and control groups. Fractal dimensions of the AD, VaD, and control groups were 1.072+/-0.179 (mean +/- SD), 1.005+/-0.156, and 0.806+/-0.06, respectively. A significant difference of fractal dimension was noted between the control group and the two types of dementia (P<.0001); however, no significant difference was noted between the AD and VaD groups. The A/P ratios of the AD and VaD groups were significantly different (0.952 and 1.163, respectively; P<.01). Analysis of CBF SPECT images quantitatively showed that the fractal dimension was significantly higher (indicating heterogeneity) in patients with AD and VaD when compared with age-matched control subjects. Comparison of the A/P ratio on CBF SPECT images between AD and VaD groups showed that the heterogeneity of CBF was posterior-dominant for AD and anterior-dominant for VaD. Thus, 3D fractal analysis enabled a simple and objective evaluation of the heterogeneity of CBF in patients with AD and VaD."}
{"id": "12905098", "title": "Cognitive performance, SPECT, and blood viscosity in elderly non-demented people using Ginkgo biloba.", "content": "Cognitive performance, SPECT, and blood viscosity in elderly non-demented people using Ginkgo biloba. The aging process is associated with several cognitive alterations. This study looks at the effects of taking dried extract of Ginkgo biloba, which has been used in several countries in an attempt to minimize these effects. The subjects were 48 men aged 60 - 70 matched between control and experimental groups for educational level. Evaluation was based on a number of neuropsychological tests in an attempt to cover the largest possible number of functions including Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT) and measures of blood viscosity. The study was run on a double-blind basis with placebo and Ginkgo biloba groups evaluated over a period of 8 months. After treatment, the experimental group showed a reduction in blood viscosity, improved cerebral perfusion in specific areas and improved global cognitive functioning. The control group showed the opposite - higher blood viscosity, a reduction in cerebral perfusion (in specific areas), and cognitive deterioration in different functions. Although the mechanisms by which Ginkgo biloba may contribute to overall enhancement of the parameters evaluated have not been specified, this plant extract certainly appears to be effective in the treatment of cognitive deficits in older people. Further research into its use is called for on the basis of the results obtained here."}
{"id": "12889165", "title": "Imaging of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging of Alzheimer's disease. Imaging is widely used in the evaluation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to imaging's traditional role of aiding in the exclusion of diseases that may be confused with AD, structural and functional imaging are being explored for potential use in the early detection of AD and as surrogate markers of treatment outcome. Volumetric measurements of the hippocampal and entorhinal regions using modern magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography are most widely studied in the discrimination of AD from nondemented aging and other dementias. Other imaging modalities include positron emission tomography and single-photon-emission computed tomography, which evaluate global and regional disturbances of blood flow and metabolism, and proton spectroscopy, which assesses neuronal degeneration and loss as marked by the presence of abnormal metabolites. Diffusion tensor and functional MRI, which examine white matter changes and brain-behavior relationships, are more recent techniques that contribute to the burgeoning application of imaging techniques to dementing illnesses and are notably improving our understanding of the pathophysiology of AD."}
{"id": "12882651", "title": "A linkage study of candidate loci in familial Parkinson's Disease.", "content": "A linkage study of candidate loci in familial Parkinson's Disease. Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease. Most cases are sporadic, however familial cases do exist. We examined 12 families with familial Parkinson's disease ascertained at the Movement Disorder clinic at the Oregon Health Sciences University for genetic linkage to a number of candidate loci. These loci have been implicated in familial Parkinson's disease or in syndromes with a clinical presentation that overlaps with parkinsonism, as well as potentially in the pathogenesis of the disease. The examined loci were PARK3, Parkin, DRD (dopa-responsive dystonia), FET1 (familial essential tremor), BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor), Ret, DAT1 (the dopamine transporter), Nurr1 and Synphilin-1. Linkage to the alpha-synuclein gene and the Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism locus on chromosome 17 had previously been excluded in the families included in this study. Using Fastlink, Genehunter and Simwalk both parametric and model-free non-parametric linkage analyses were performed. In the multipoint parametric linkage analysis lod scores were below -2 for all loci except FET1 and Synphilin-1 under an autosomal dominant model with incomplete penetrance. Using non-parametric linkage analysis there was no evidence for linkage, although linkage could not be excluded. A few families showed positive parametric and non-parametric lod scores indicating possible genetic heterogeneity between families, although these scores did not reach any degree of statistical significance. We conclude that in these families there was no evidence for linkage to any of the loci tested, although we were unable to exclude linkage with both parametric and non-parametric methods."}
{"id": "12880839", "title": "Voxel- and VOI-based analysis of SPECT CBF in relation to clinical and psychological heterogeneity of mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Voxel- and VOI-based analysis of SPECT CBF in relation to clinical and psychological heterogeneity of mild cognitive impairment. This study aimed to explore the heterogeneity of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and detect differences in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive function between progressive mild cognitive impairment (PMCI) and stable mild cognitive impairment (SMCI) in order to identify specific changes useful for early diagnosis of dementia. SPECT was performed in 82 MCI subjects and 20 controls using Tc-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime. Cognitive functions were tested in five domains which included episodic memory, semantic memory, visuospatial function, attention, and general cognitive function. After the initial examination, MCI subjects were clinically followed for an average of 2 years. Twenty-eight subjects progressed to dementia and were defined as PMCI at baseline and 54 subjects remained stable and were defined as SMCI at baseline. The baseline rCBF and cognitive function of PMCI, SMCI, and controls were compared. PMCI had decreased relative rCBF in the parietal lobes and increased relative rCBF in prefrontal cortex compared to SMCI and controls at baseline. The cognitive function of PMCI was more severely impaired compared to SMCI with respect to episodic memory and visuospatial and general cognitive function. Both SPECT and neuropsychological tests had moderate discriminant function between PMCI and SMCI at baseline with the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve at 75-77%. The combination of these two methods improved the diagnostic accuracy with the area under the ROC curve at 82-84%. Semantic memory and attention were negatively correlated with left prefrontal relative rCBF among the study population. The results show that the clinical heterogeneity of MCI is reflected in different patterns of psychological and CBF changes. Combined SPECT investigation and neuropsychological testing might predict the future development of dementia in patients with MCI."}
{"id": "12876145", "title": "Neurofilament inclusion body disease: a new proteinopathy?", "content": "Neurofilament inclusion body disease: a new proteinopathy? We describe four cases of a new clinicopathological entity presenting with either a frontotemporal dementia or corticobasal degeneration syndrome with a mean age of onset of 45 years (range 41-50) characterized pathologically by deposition of neurofilament proteins. All four patients had a rapidly progressive course and have become mute and non-ambulatory, and three have died after mean illness duration of only 3 years (range 2 1/2 -4). Both structural (MRI) and functional (PET and SPECT) imaging demonstrated frontal and temporal lobe and basal ganglia involvement. Gross neuropathological examination in the three deceased patients (the fourth patient, still alive, was diagnosed by brain biopsy) revealed changes affecting predominantly the frontal and temporal cortices, basal ganglia and brainstem. There was superficial linear spongiosis affecting the frontal lobes in all three autopsied patients, and severe caudate atrophy was noted in two of them and demonstrated on MRI in the living patient. On routine staining, there were numerous intracytoplasmic inclusions, which ranged from eosinophilic to basophilic. Some had a clearly defined basophilic margin, while others were granular with a hyaline core. With modified Bielschowsky silver technique, a small number of the inclusions were intensely stained. Inclusions were not labelled with other silver stains. Immuno histochemistry revealed that the inclusions were immunoreactive with antibodies to neurofilament heavy and light chain subunits and to ubiquitin, but not with antibodies to tau and alpha-synuclein. These neurofilament- and ubiquitin-positive inclusions were widespread, specific to neurons and occasionally intranuclear. The frequency and distribution of the inclusions and the silver and immunohistochemical profiles in these four cases is novel and has not been described in detail before. We propose the term neurofilament inclusion body disease for this entity."}
{"id": "12868068", "title": "Dopamine induces autophagic cell death and alpha-synuclein increase in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.", "content": "Dopamine induces autophagic cell death and alpha-synuclein increase in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Free cytoplasmic dopamine may be involved in the genesis of neuronal degeneration in Parkinson's disease and other such diseases. We used SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells to study the effect of dopamine on cell death, activation of stress-induced pathways, and expression of alpha-synuclein, the characteristic protein accumulated in Lewy bodies. We show that 100 and 500 microM dopamine causes a 40% and 60% decrease of viability, respectively, and triggers autophagy after 24 hr of exposure, characterized by the presence of numerous cytoplasmic vacuoles with inclusions. Dopamine causes mitochondrial aggregation in adherent cells prior to the loss of functionality. Plasma membrane and nucleus also maintain their integrity. Cell viability is protected by the dopamine transporter blocker nomifensine and the antioxidants N-acetylcysteine and ascorbic acid. Dopamine activates the stress-response kinases, SAPK/JNK and p38, but not ERK/MAPK or MEK, and increases alpha-synuclein expression. Both cell viability and the increase in alpha-synuclein expression are prevented by antioxidants; by the specific inhibitors of p38 and SAPK/JNK, SB203580 and SP600125, respectively; and by the inhibitor of autophagy 3-methyladenine. This indicates that oxidative stress, stress-activated kinases, and factors involved in autophagy up-regulate alpha-synuclein content. The results show that nonapoptotic death pathways are triggered by dopamine, leading to autophagy. These findings should be taken into account in the search for strategies to protect dopaminergic neurons from degeneration."}
{"id": "12846547", "title": "Unexpected accumulation of thallium-201 in bilateral thalamic venous infarction induced by arteriovenous fistula in the posterior fossa: report of a case.", "content": "Unexpected accumulation of thallium-201 in bilateral thalamic venous infarction induced by arteriovenous fistula in the posterior fossa: report of a case. We encountered unexpected accumulation of thallium-201 in a patient with thalamic dementia resulting from bithalamic venous infarction induced by arteriovenous fistula in the posterior fossa The site and degree of abnormal accumulation varied between early and delayed thallium-201 SPECT images. This unexpected and complicated accumulation of thallium-201 appeared to depend on not only breakdown of the blood-brain barrier but also on the hemodynamics of this type of venous infarction."}
{"id": "12844524", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia. In this case study, we describe the symptoms, neuropsychological testing, and brain pathology of a man with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FTD most often presents with either a change in personality or behavior, such as social withdrawal, increased gregariousness, disinhibition, or obsessive behaviors; or with impairment of language function. Memory difficulties are common, but usually are less prominent than these other symptoms in the early stages of the disease. Frequently, psychiatric diagnoses are initially the primary consideration. Cases may be either familial or sporadic. In this familial case, an autopsy was ultimately performed and revealed findings characteristic of FTD, with grossly evident focal brain degeneration in the frontal and temporal regions, microscopic signs of gliosis, and cellular abnormalities of the intracellular microtubule-associated protein tau."}
{"id": "12833885", "title": "[An autopsy case of encephalopathy associated with small cell carcinoma of the stomach with nonconvulsive status epilepticus resembling Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease].", "content": "[An autopsy case of encephalopathy associated with small cell carcinoma of the stomach with nonconvulsive status epilepticus resembling Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease]. A 64-year-old man developed progressive dementia and altered consciousness with myoclonus over 2 months. Neurological examination revealed mild dysphagia and negative myoclonus of both hands. Electroencephalography (EEG) showed continuous periodic synchronous discharge (PSD) of 1 Hz, although his EEG abnormality was not similar to that usually observed in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed only few lacunes. Laboratory data were also normal. Since his consciousness level fluctuated and the PSD were spiky, we came to a diagnosis of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). After administering the valproic acid, his symptoms and EEG finding improved. Nine months after the onset, despite his continued valproic acid, the patient had recurrent NCSE and PSD of 1 Hz. Diffusion-weighted MRI showed a T2-hyperintense lesion in the right parietal lobe, where SPECT scans showed hyperperfusion. After adding zonisamide, he improved slowly. The follow-up MRI and SPECT showed a disappearance of the previous lesion. Now CT scans of the abdomen showed enlarged periaortic lymph node and endoscopic ultrasonography disclosed a submucosal tumor of the stomach. Biopsy of the periaortic lymph node by laparotomy revealed undifferentiated adenocarcinoma with its origin being unclear. Chemotherapy didn't work well for the tumor and the patient underwent a downhill course, although his mental and neurological manifestation were mostly unremarkable. Two years and four months after the onset, he died in emaciation. Autopsy confirmed small cell carcinoma originating in the stomach and metastases in the liver and lungs. Neuropathological examination revealed only mild scattered gliosis. This case was unique in the prolonged CJD-like manifestations, which turned out to be due to NCSE. Despite anti-neuronal antibodies were not detected, we suspect yet another paraneoplastic brain syndrome in this patient."}
{"id": "12833301", "title": "Prescription practices of diagnostic imaging in dementia: a survey of 47 Alzheimer's Centres in Northern Italy.", "content": "Prescription practices of diagnostic imaging in dementia: a survey of 47 Alzheimer's Centres in Northern Italy. To date, there are no data at the national or European level on the prescription practices of imaging (CT, MR, and SPET) in the diagnosis of cognitively impaired elderly patients. We addressed prescription practices of diagnostic imaging in 47 Alzheimer's Centres in Northern Italy, with an ad-hoc questionnaire. The use of imaging in new cases was relatively intensive: 62% of the Alzheimer's Centres prescribed CT to more than 95% of cases, 24% prescribed MR to more than 33% of cases, and 33% prescribed SPET to more than 5% of cases. A minority of Alzheimer's Centres (n = 3, 6%) prescribed imaging to less than 100% of new cases. The association between onsite scanner availability and frequency of prescription increased from CT (Odds ratio (OR) = 1.8) through MR (OR = 2.4) to SPET (OR = 4.6), although only the latter was significant (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.2-17.7, p = 0.003). Patient-related factors (age, severity of cognitive impairment, and clinical suspicion of cerebrovascular disease) influenced prescription of structural imaging in 30-53% of Alzheimer's Centres and organizational factors (onsite scanner availability, and waiting list) in a similar proportion (32 and 43% respectively). Organizational factors play a relevant role in the prescription of imaging exams in patients with cognitive impairment and, at least for CT, the perceived diagnostic added value is rather low, suggesting a high degree of uncertainty in the clinical use of imaging techniques."}
{"id": "12823502", "title": "Striatal infarcts mimicking frontotemporal dementia: a case report.", "content": "Striatal infarcts mimicking frontotemporal dementia: a case report. We described a patient with bilateral striatal infarcts, in whom stereotyped and disinhibited behaviors were insidiously emerged over 2 years mimicking frontotemporal dementia (FTD). A positron emission tomography with 18-fluorodeoxy glucose showed a hypometabolism in the frontal lobes, basal ganglia, and thalami. The peculiar behavioral alterations remained unchanged for the following 7 years, suggesting that the disease is not degenerative but of vascular origin. A disruption of the fronto-subcortical circuits at the level of the striatum or the anterior thalamic peduncle is attributable to the FTD-like behavioral and cognitive syndrome."}
{"id": "12802006", "title": "Cost-effectiveness of PET in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Cost-effectiveness of PET in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of positron emission tomography (PET) in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) in community-dwelling patients with mild or moderate dementia who present to specialized AD centers. A decision-analytic model was used to compare costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated with strategies involving single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), dynamic susceptibility-weighted contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and PET as functional imaging adjuncts to the standard clinical work-up. Sensitivity analyses were performed to examine changes in test characteristics, health-related quality-of-life survey instruments, therapeutic effectiveness, and treatment rules. The use of PET to confirm the results of the standard clinical work-up cost more but yielded fewer benefits than a strategy in which dynamic susceptibility-weighted contrast-enhanced MR imaging was substituted for the typically performed structural computed tomography. This relationship remained stable in scenarios in which standard diagnostic work-up accuracy, drug treatment effectiveness, and version of the Health Utilities Index were altered. Dynamic susceptibility-weighted contrast-enhanced MR imaging cost US dollars 598800 per QALY gained (range, US dollars 74400 to US dollars 1.9 million per QALY), compared with the cost of the standard diagnostic work-up. Treating all patients with dementia was the dominant imaging strategy, except when side effects in patients with non-AD-related dementia were modeled. In all scenarios, SPECT yielded fewer benefits than other strategies at a higher cost. PET may have high diagnostic accuracy, but adding it to the standard diagnostic regimen at AD clinics would yield limited, if any, benefits at very high costs."}
{"id": "12796837", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism with the P301S tau gene mutation in a Jewish family.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism with the P301S tau gene mutation in a Jewish family. Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17q21-22 (FTDP-17) is an autosomal dominant tauopathy manifested by a variable combination of personality changes, cognitive decline and hypokinetic-rigid movement disorder. Significant clinical and pathological heterogeneity of FTDP-17 is related in part to more than 20 different pathogenic mutations identified in the tau gene. Among others, the P301S mutation has been previously reported in three families of European and one of Japanese origin presenting with different clinical phenotypes. To report a three-generation family of Jewish-Algerian origin with FTDP-17 due to the P301S tau mutation. Clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging evaluation of 3 patients, tau genotyping, and pathological study of the proband. The 3 affected family members had a fairly stereotyped clinical course with early personality changes from their late 30s followed within a period of 1-2 years by a progressive cognitive and motor deterioration eventually leading to a state of akinetic mutism or death 3-5 years after the initial symptoms. The main clinical manifestations included severe dementia and hypokinetic-rigid movement disorder associated with supranuclear gaze impairment, pyramidal signs and frontal release signs. Brain imaging disclosed a variable degree of frontotemporal atrophy, ventriculomegaly and regional cerebral hypoperfusion or glucose hypometabolism. Frontal lobe biopsy in the proband revealed weak tau immunoreactivity in a few cortical neurons, in rare neurites and in some glial cells with no neurofibrillary tangles. Molecular DNA analysis identified a P301S mutation in exon 10 of the tau gene. The observed clinical features further expand the reported P301S phenotype and confirm a more aggressive course of the disease than in the other known tau mutations."}
{"id": "12784032", "title": "Subjective experience of memory deficits related to clinical and neuroimaging findings.", "content": "Subjective experience of memory deficits related to clinical and neuroimaging findings. The aim of this study was to evaluate cognitive impairment, psychiatric symptoms and cerebral blood flow (CBF) patterns in middle-aged (35-64 years) and younger old patients (65-74 years) with subjective experience of memory deficits. The study group was heterogeneous with patients fulfilling criteria for dementia, as well as patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and with non-verified cognitive impairment (non-MCI). Seventy per cent of the non-MCI patients reported long-lasting experiences of psychosocial stress tentatively causing the memory problems. The MCI patients were subdivided into two groups: MCI type 1 included patients with isolated memory impairment, while MCI type 2 included patients with memory impairment together with slight verbal and/or visuospatial impairments. CBF measurements comparing the two MCI groups with the non-MCI group were performed. The MCI type 2 showed reduced CBF in the left anterior medial temporal lobe as well as in parts of the posterior cingulate gyrus. The CBF pattern in MCI type 2 concurs with the pathophysiological process of Alzheimer's disease. The results indicate that it is important to make a subdivision of MCI patients regarding the presence of isolated memory impairments or memory impairments together with other slight cognitive deficits."}
{"id": "12773898", "title": "[Neuropsychological and scintigraphic aspects of frontotemporal dementia preceding amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].", "content": "[Neuropsychological and scintigraphic aspects of frontotemporal dementia preceding amyotrophic lateral sclerosis]. Between 1993 and 2001, we observed fifteen patients (ten men and five women, mean age 63 years) with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) which preceded signs of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) which developed 21 months later. Mean disease duration in the fourteen deceased patients was 38 months. FTD associated with ALS is characterized by rapid course, predominance of disinhibited forms (orbito-basal), presence of aphasia with neologisms, and semantic memory disorders. Performed in all patients, single-photon emission computed tomography demonstrated a bifrontal pattern of low uptake, sometimes associated with low uptake in the anterior temporal region. In one patient, neuropathology revealed neuron atrophy and loss in the frontotemporal region, the anterior horns, and the hypoglossal nucleus. Ubiquitin-positive inclusions were visible in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and in the anterior horns. The dementia/ALS association is classically described is uncommon. It belongs to the FTD group since the Lund and Manchester consensus. Approximately 15 p.100 of patient with FTD can be expected to develop ALS. About 250 cases have been reported in the literature, half of them in the Pacific area where the incidence of ALS is high (55/100,000 inhabitants versus 1/100,000 in the rest of the world). Intermediary forms of FTD, semantic dementia, and progressive non-fluent aphasia are discussed since several cases of non-fluent progressive aphasia associated with ALS are reported in the literature. The links between these two degenerative diseases are discussed."}
{"id": "12754653", "title": "Short-term longitudinal evaluation of cerebral blood flow in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Short-term longitudinal evaluation of cerebral blood flow in mild Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to estabilish whether subtle changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) can be detected in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) over a period as short as three months. Aprospective evaluation of rCBF changes with HMPAO SPECT at baseline and after 3 and 6 months was carried out. Standard clinical dementia tests were performed in parallel. The study enrolled 13 patients with mild probable AD from an outpatient memory clinic. SPECT data collected at baseline and after three months were compared using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM). Significant clusters of rCBF decrement in the medial part of the temporal lobe in both hemispheres, in the orbital part of the right frontal lobe and in the inferior part of the right parietal lobe were observed. No significant differences were found using a region of interest (ROI) analysis. After six months SPM analysis showed larger clusters of significant decrement in the same areas. ROI analysis was now sensitive to the rCBF changes and significant differences were shown in all brain regions except the temporal lobes. SPM analysis of SPECT data can detect significant changes in rCBF in mild AD over a short time interval. This method might be of potential advantage for the early diagnosis of AD and for its differentiation from stable cognitive impairments."}
{"id": "12754337", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: differences in technetium-99m HMPAO SPECT scan findings between early onset and late onset dementia.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: differences in technetium-99m HMPAO SPECT scan findings between early onset and late onset dementia. To compare the HMPAO SPECT cerebral perfusion patterns in early and late onset Alzheimer's disease. Twenty patients with early onset disease (<65 years) and 44 patients with late onset disease (>65 years) were studied. All patients fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA clinical criteria and had details of disease severity and length of history at the time of imaging. Technetium-99m HMPAO SPECT brain scans were acquired on a multi-detector gammacamera and analysed visually and with statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). Patients with early onset disease had significantly greater posterior cortical association area involvement whereas those with late onset disease had significantly greater medial temporal hypoperfusion. These findings were unchanged after controlling for disease severity and length of illness. These functional imaging findings of the differences between early and late onset Alzheimer's disease are supported by published findings that include histopathological and clinical evidence; namely late onset patients tend to present with the characteristic involvement of the medial temporal lobes producing marked memory loss whereas early onset patients present with predominant posterior cortical association area involvement. These age related findings should be borne in mind when clinically diagnosing, and interpreting functional brain imaging studies in, patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "12752394", "title": "Memory deficits and retrieval processes in ALS.", "content": "Memory deficits and retrieval processes in ALS. Subtle neuropsychological deficits have been described in patients affected by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) without dementia. Overall, selective impairment in memory function has been reported, but the source of memory impairment in ALS has yet to be defined. We performed neuropsychological screening in 20 ALS patients. Semantic encoding and post-encoding cue effects on the retrieval of word lists were investigated in the ALS patients and normal controls. Severity of memory impairment was correlated to cerebral blood perfusion detected by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). ALS patients showed moderate impairments in frontal and memory tests. Short-term memory was normal, while serial position retrieval of word lists with normal recency effect but poor primacy effect showed long-term memory deficit. ALS patients performed better in cued encoding than in cued post-encoding recall condition. In the cued post-encoding condition, the primacy effect in word list recall improved significantly in controls, but not in ALS patients, as compared with both the free recall and cued encoding conditions. SPECT hypoperfusion was observed in frontal and temporal areas in ALS patients. ALS patients showed a long-term memory deficit which did not improve in cued post-encoding condition as it does for controls. We hypothesize abnormal retrieval processes related to frontal lobe dysfunction which entails difficulties in generating stable long-memory traces at encoding."}
{"id": "12733681", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia affecting a U.S. Air Force officer.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia affecting a U.S. Air Force officer. We present the case of a 51-year-old former U.S. Air Force officer who developed marked behavioral and personality changes over a 9-year period, ultimately leading to his discharge from the Air Force at a rank below that which he achieved during service. Clinical diagnostic features, neuropsychological testing and neuroimaging together confirmed a diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia. This form of presenile dementia is discussed with reference to his case."}
{"id": "12714800", "title": "In vivo dopamine pre-synaptic receptors and antioxidant activities in patients with Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and in controls. A preliminary report.", "content": "In vivo dopamine pre-synaptic receptors and antioxidant activities in patients with Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and in controls. A preliminary report. The degeneration of dopaminergic cells in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) may provide an important source of additional free radical generation. As a result, the oxidative stress status in DLB could be significantly enhanced. Subsequently, the levels of endogenous antioxidants, which are an indirect measure of free radical activities, may be different in DLB patients when compared with Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and controls. In this preliminary study, we measured the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione (GLU) and total antioxidant capacity in the blood of DLB, AD and control subjects. The state of nigrostriatal dopaminergic system was also assessed in vivo by using a radioactive ligand with an affinity for the dopamine pre-synaptic receptors and by imaging with single-photon emission tomography. Data obtained showed a decrease in dopamine pre-synaptic receptors in all the brain regions of DLB patients. The levels of SOD did not differ significantly between DLB, AD and control subjects. However, GLU levels were significantly higher in the DLB patients when compared with AD patients (p < 0.05) and controls (p < 0.01). CAT blood levels were also higher in DLB when compared with AD, but this did not reach statistical significance. The results suggest that a different oxidative stress state may exist in DLB. This may occur due to increased free radical production from the degeneration of dopaminergic cells and auto-oxidation of dopamine, the availability of which may be maintained in early-stage DLB disease as a result of the compensatory increase in its turnover from the remaining dopaminergic cells."}
{"id": "12706204", "title": "Muscarinic receptors in basal ganglia in dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Muscarinic receptors in basal ganglia in dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Derivatives of the muscarinic antagonist 3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate (QNB), particularly [123I]-(R,R)-I-QNB, are currently being assessed as in vivo ligands to monitor muscarinic receptors in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), relating changes to disease symptoms and to treatment response with cholinergic medication. To assist in the evaluation of in vivo binding, muscarinic receptor density in post-mortem human brain was measured by autoradiography with [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB and [125I]-(R,S)-I-QNB and compared to M1 ([3H]pirenzepine) and M2 and M4 ([3H]AF-DX 384) receptor binding. Binding was calculated in tissue containing striatum, globus pallidus (GPe), claustrum, and cingulate and insula cortex, in cases of AD, DLB, Parkinson's disease (PD) and normal elderly controls. Pirenzepine, AF-DX 384 and (R,S)-I-QNB binding in the striatum correlated positively with increased Alzheimer-type pathology, and AF-DX 384 and (R,R)-I-QNB cortical binding correlated positively with increased Lewy body (LB) pathology; however, striatal pirenzepine binding correlated negatively with cortical LB pathology. M1 receptors were significantly reduced in striatum in DLB compared to AD, PD, and controls and there was a significant correlation between M1 and dopamine D2 receptor densities. [3H]AF-DX 384 binding was higher in the striatum and GPe in AD. Binding of [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB, which may reflect increased muscarinic M4 receptors, was higher in cortex and claustrum in DLB and AD. [125I]-(R,S)-I-QNB binding was higher in the GPe in AD. Low M1 and D2 receptors in DLB imply altered regulation of the striatal projection neurons which express these receptors. Low density of striatal M1 receptors may relate to the extent of movement disorder in DLB, and to a reduced risk of parkinsonism with acetylcholinesterase inhibition."}
{"id": "12697623", "title": "Dementia and ageing.", "content": "Dementia and ageing. Sophisticated imaging techniques are required to characterise the complex dynamic neuro-anatomical changes that occur over time in health and disease. With the advent of potential therapies for the treatment of degenerative dementias, imaging strategies need to enable early diagnosis and facilitate monitoring of disease progression in treatment trials. This chapter highlights some of the innovative structural and functional imaging techniques that have impacted on the clinical management of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "12691498", "title": "A meta-analysis of structural and functional brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a neuroimaging profile.", "content": "A meta-analysis of structural and functional brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a neuroimaging profile. We conducted a quantitative review of the imaging literature using meta-analytic methodology to characterize further the magnitude of hippocampal deficit in probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to determine whether other neuroanatomic structures in AD can better discriminate the disease from normal aging. Additionally, we parceled the discriminability of neuroanatomic structures by duration of disease to determine those structures most sensitive to AD in its early and late stages. One hundred twenty-one studies published between 1984 and 2000 met criteria for inclusion in the present analysis. In total, structural (i.e., CT and MRI) and functional (i.e., SPECT and PET) neuroimaging results from 3511 patients with AD, and 1632 normal healthy controls were recorded across meta-analyses. Our results include neuroimaging profiles for both early onset and longer duration patients with AD. In sum, these profiles yield a signature of diagnostic markers in both cortical and subcortical neuroanatomic areas. This signature is consistent with the clinical phenomenology of Alzheimer's dementia and should aid in the positive identification of AD."}
{"id": "12686411", "title": "Neuroradiologic and clinical abnormalities in dementia of diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification (Kosaka-Shibayama disease).", "content": "Neuroradiologic and clinical abnormalities in dementia of diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification (Kosaka-Shibayama disease). We describe a characteristic dementia patient diagnosed as diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification (DNTC). Neuropsychologically, dementia, including a decline in memory retention and intelligence, and anomic aphasia were recognized. Imaging revealed circumscribed temporal dominant atrophy and calcification of the basal ganglia and cerebellum. SPECT and FDG-PET revealed a remarkable reduction of blood flow and metabolism in the temporal lobes; however, there is no reduction in the basal ganglia and cerebellum, and FDOPA-PET also disclosed no abnormalities. This suggests that calcification and neuronal degeneration occur independently in DNTC."}
{"id": "12684997", "title": "[A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia presenting long clinical course].", "content": "[A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia presenting long clinical course]. We describe a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALS-D) displaying a long clinical course. A 68-year-old Japanese male with no family history of note was admitted complaining of severe dysarthria and dysphagia. At 63 years old, Pick's disease was diagnosed on the basis of abnormal behavior, such as \"Denkfaulheit\" and moria, and temporal lobe atrophy observed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Five years after onset, dysarthria and dysphagia emerged, and gradually worsened. On admission, muscular weakness of the upper extremities, fasciculation, and exaggerated tendon stretch reflexes were noted. Needle electromyography performed on the left upper and lower extremities revealed neurogenic pattern changes. Based on these findings and clinical course, ALS-D was diagnosed. Due to severe bulbar palsy, verbal communication was impossible. However, neither specific symptoms of dementia nor abnormal behavior was demonstrated, although this latter had been observed 5 years ago, with only short-term memory impairment apparent. MRI disclosed severe knife-edge atrophy of bilateral temporal lobes, most prominently in the anterior regions. SPECT images revealed decreased uptake of tracer in bilateral inferior temporal lobes, predominantly on the left side. The patient died suddenly 4 months after admission, and post-mortem examination was not conducted. Total clinical course was about 8 years. Several cases of ALS-D have displayed similar clinical courses to the presented case. Some of these would also have initially been diagnosed as Pick's disease. We speculate that cases displaying psychiatric symptoms for several years and initially diagnosed as Pick's disease may finally be diagnosed as ALS-D upon the eventual emergence of motor symptoms(bulbar palsy)."}
{"id": "12679392", "title": "Statistical image analysis of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia with small-vessel disease.", "content": "Statistical image analysis of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia with small-vessel disease. Small-vessel disease with dementia, which is the most frequent type of vascular dementia (VaD), often shows a cerebral blood flow (CBF) distribution with no obvious focal abnormalities and is therefore difficult to evaluate objectively. In this study, we combined CBF SPECT with 3-dimensional fractal analysis (3D-FA) to quantitatively assess the heterogeneity of CBF distribution and with 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3D-SSP) to evaluate the distribution of CBF. We then evaluated the clinical validity of these techniques for the imaging diagnosis of VaD. The subjects consisted of 17 patients who were diagnosed as having VaD due to small-vessel disease (VaD group) on the basis of a full clinical examination, including history, neuropsychologic tests, neurologic examination, and neuroimaging methods, and 20 healthy volunteers (control group). CBF SPECT was performed with (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime, and the reconstructed images were subjected to image processing by 3D-FA and 3D-SSP. Based on the results, the fractal dimension (FD) was compared between the VaD and control groups, and the distribution pattern of CBF was examined in the VaD group. The mean FD values in the VaD group and the control group were 1.093 +/- 0.153 and 0.853 +/- 0.062 (mean +/- SD), respectively. The mean FD value in the VaD group was significantly higher than that in the control group (P < 0.0001). 3D-SSP analysis in the VaD group showed that there were 2 abnormal patterns: One was globally reduced blood flow in the whole cerebral cortex, and the other was a reduction mainly confined to the frontal region. CBF SPECT images showed higher mean FD values in the VaD group than in the control group, suggesting a difference in the heterogeneity of CBF. Image processing with 3D-SSP successfully revealed that reduced cortical blood flow could be divided into 2 patterns. Because image analysis techniques, such as 3D-FA and 3D-SSP, allowed the simple and objective evaluation of CBF in patients with VaD, these methods seem to be useful for detailed examination of the blood flow pattern detected by CBF SPECT in patients with VaD."}
{"id": "12673603", "title": "Correlation of neuropsychological evaluation and SPECT imaging in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Correlation of neuropsychological evaluation and SPECT imaging in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) is a very useful tool for diagnosing changes in cognitive functions by the general practitioner or other medical staff who is not familiar with neuropsychological tests. On the other hand, HMPAO brain SPECT has been shown to have a high sensitivity to detect neurodegenerative processes, which lead to dementia. The correlation between both methods is unknown. We compared both methods in order to find a rational evaluation tool for the practitioner to obtain a higher efficacy and cost effective way of using both methods. Fifty-one patients diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease (AD) were examined. Each patient underwent MMSE analysis, as well as HMPAO brain SPECT. The severity of SPECT abnormalities was categorized into mild, moderate and severe. Statistical analysis was performed in order to evaluate the correlation between imaging findings and neuropsychological testing. Marginal inverse correlation was found between global MMSE SPECT imaging on right and left side (p = 0.05) and the left temporal region (p = 0.05). MMSE subgroup component of orientation was highly significantly inversely associated with SPECT imaging of right and left frontal region (p > 0.0001). The MMSE subgroup of immediate memory was significantly correlated to left and right temporal regions (p = 0.001 and p = 0.002 respectively). Age was not significantly correlated to global MMSE or any of its subtest components. MMSE score has no linear correlation to SPECT perfusion findings. In cases of abnormal orientation score subgroup SPECT imaging is not recommended. In most instances, a combination of both methods should be employed by the general practitioner for further evaluation of dementia."}
{"id": "12672538", "title": "Attenuation of dopamine transporter activity by alpha-synuclein.", "content": "Attenuation of dopamine transporter activity by alpha-synuclein. Alpha-synuclein accumulates in Lewy bodies in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Neither the normal function nor contribution of alpha-synuclein to the pathophysiology of neurodegeneration is known. Here we show that a normal function of alpha-synuclein is the negative modulation of human dopamine transporter (hDAT) activity. In cotransfected Ltk(-) cells, alpha-synuclein attenuated the reuptake of dopamine by hDAT, in a manner dependent on expression levels of alpha-synuclein. Alpha-synuclein-mediated inhibition of hDAT activity was independent of expression vectors, cell types and methods of transfection. The alpha-synuclein-mediated decrease in DAT activity occurred through diminished uptake velocity of dopamine, without changes in the affinity of hDAT for dopamine. Co-immunoprecipitation studies confirmed the formation of a stable complex between alpha-synuclein and DAT, through direct protein:protein interactions. Thus, under normal (non-toxic) expression conditions, alpha-synuclein negatively modulates dopamine uptake by DAT."}
{"id": "12649841", "title": "[Biomarkers, mild cognitive impairment and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Biomarkers, mild cognitive impairment and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Elderly people are concerned about changes in their cognitive functioning. Since cholinergic therapies for Alzheimer's disease have been developed and become widely accepted, elderly people have come to visit clinics to seek medical advice about whether such a subtle change in cognitive ability may represent an early manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). If they are likely to develop dementia or AD, they want to receive immediate medical treatment as soon as possible to prevent further loss of cognitive functioning so that they can live independently as long as possible. The first priority in the clinical application of a biomarker is that biomarker should contribute to early diagnosis of dementia. Among such biomarkers, we believe that cerebrospinal fluid markers and functional brain imaging are clinically the most applicable procedures. Since 1993, we have collected 623 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples at The Tohoku University Hospital for evaluation of dementia (age: 42-93). We found that CSF/phospho-tau measures produced the most adequate sensitivity (85.2%) and specificity (85.0%) in the diagnosis of AD as a sole bio-marker. The CSF levels of A beta 1-42 showed a strong positive correlation with the Mini-mental state examination score and brain glucose metabolism by positron emission tomography. The baseline levels of both total-tau and phospho-tau in CSF increased in approximately 70% of patients with mild cognitive impairment who later developed AD, suggesting that pathological change in the brain might start years before dementia becomes clinically manifested. A combined use of CSF-tau and IMP-SPECT improved the predictability of the transition from mild cognitive impairment into AD."}
{"id": "12640053", "title": "Occipital hypoperfusion in Parkinson's disease without dementia: correlation to impaired cortical visual processing.", "content": "Occipital hypoperfusion in Parkinson's disease without dementia: correlation to impaired cortical visual processing. The purpose of this study was to analyse changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in Parkinson's disease (PD) without dementia. Twenty eight non-demented patients with PD and 17 age matched normal subjects underwent single photon emission computed tomography with N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine to measure rCBF. The statistical parametric mapping 96 programme was used for statistical analysis. The PD patients showed significantly reduced rCBF in the bilateral occipital and posterior parietal cortices (p<0.01, corrected for multiple comparison p<0.05), when compared with the control subjects. There was a strong positive correlation between the score of Raven's coloured progressive matrices (RCPM) and the rCBF in the right visual association area (p<0.01, corrected for multiple comparison p<0.05) among the PD patients. This study showed occipital and posterior parietal hypoperfusion in PD patients without dementia. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that occipital hypoperfusion is likely to underlie impairment of visual cognition according to the RCPM test, which is not related to motor impairment."}
{"id": "12624590", "title": "[Value of single photon emission computed tomography in the characterization of fronto-temporal dementia subtypes].", "content": "[Value of single photon emission computed tomography in the characterization of fronto-temporal dementia subtypes]. DFT (fronto-temporal dementia) was diagnosed in 33 patients (17 males and 16 females), mean age 74.9 years, using the criteria from Neary et al. (1998). The severity of the disease was evaluated based on the presence or absence of 4 clinical groups of signs (behavioral, affective, neurological signs and language) allowing the calculation of a global clinical ratio on 20. A CT-scan and a Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) scan using Tc99m-ECD with quantification of brain perfusion were then performed. This study confirmed the classical clinical forms of DFT: a psycho-affective form (21%), where negative symptoms are predominant, and a behavioral disinhibited form (9%). Most of our cases (40%) corresponded to a global form. Finally we also identified a fourth clinical form: cognitive form because of predominance of language disturbances (30%). Concerning SPECT, we found 4 topographic forms: frontal global (46%), frontal superior (24%), frontal inferior (15%) and frontal unilateral (12%). In the frontal inferior form, behavioral disturbances were correlated to the intensity of frontal inferior hypoperfusion, corresponding to an orbito-frontal dysfunction. In the frontal superior form, psycho-affective disturbances (apathy) were correlated with frontal superior hypoperfusion (anterior cingulum and superior dorso-lateral cortex). Finally, in global and frontal inferior SPECT forms, language disturbances were correlated with a frontal inferior hypoperfusion (prefrontal and inferior left frontal cortex)."}
{"id": "12605358", "title": "Positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography brain imaging in the evaluation of dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography brain imaging in the evaluation of dementia. The role of PET and SPECT brain imaging in the initial assessment and differential diagnosis of dementia is beginning to evolve rapidly. Numerous studies confirm the value of functional brain imaging, particularly with FDG-PET imaging, as a potentially cost-effective means of establishing an earlier diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Such an approach should allow for a more objective means of establishing which patients will benefit from treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors. In the future, neuroreceptor and plaque burden imaging studies should further enhance the sensitivity and specificity of dementia detection and patient management."}
{"id": "12603253", "title": "Clinical findings in nondemented mutation carriers predisposed to Alzheimer's disease: a model of mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Clinical findings in nondemented mutation carriers predisposed to Alzheimer's disease: a model of mild cognitive impairment. Individuals carrying a mutation associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) may serve as a model of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Nondemented individuals from these families can be subdivided into asymptomatic and symptomatic groups. Four families were studied. Two families are associated with APP mutations (KN670/671ML, E693G) and two with PS1 mutation (M146V, H163Y). Clinical symptoms, level of global cognitive functioning as evaluated by Mini-Mental State Examination, neuropsychological test results, neuroradiological examinations (magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single-photon emission tomography (SPECT)), as well as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measurements of tau and beta-amyloid are reported. Nondemented mutation carriers did not report any symptoms indicating cognitive decline. In addition, no clinical signs of dementia or marked cognitive impairment in neuropsychological tests were found. A reduction of temporal blood flow with SPECT was indicated in 5/13 nondemented mutation carriers. Two of these 13 individuals had moderate hyperintensities in deep white matter as observed on MRI. CSF measurements of A beta 42/43 were inconclusive because of large biological variation. A nonsignificant elevation of tau was detected in mutation carriers. In conclusion, clinical examinations of relatively young individuals carrying an AD mutation did not reveal any marked abnormalities before the clinical onset of dementia."}
{"id": "12603252", "title": "A critical discussion of the role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "A critical discussion of the role of neuroimaging in mild cognitive impairment. In this paper, the current neuroimaging literature is reviewed with regard to characteristic findings in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Particular attention is drawn to the possible value of neuroimaging modalities in the prediction and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). First, the potential contribution of neuroimaging to an early, preclinical diagnosis of degenerative disorders is discussed at the background of our knowledge about the pathogenesis of AD. Second, relevant neuroimaging studies focusing on MCI are explored and summarized. Neuroimaging studies were found through Medline search and by systematically checking through the bibliographies of relevant articles. Structural volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET)/single photon emission tomography (SPECT) are currently the most commonly used neuroimaging modalities in studies focusing on MCI. There were considerable variations in demographical and clinical characteristics across studies. However, significant hippocampal and entorhinal cortex volume reductions were consistently found in subjects with MCI as compared with cognitively unimpaired controls. While hippocampal and entorhinal cortex atrophy in subjects with MCI are also well-established risk factors for the development of AD, these measures cannot be regarded as being of high predictive value in an individual case. Evidence for other typical neuroimaging changes in MCI is still scarce. In PET and SPECT studies, reduced blood flow and/or glucose metabolism in temporoparietal association areas, posterior cingulate and hippocampus were associated with a higher risk of progressive cognitive decline in MCI. In quantitative electroencephalogram (QEEG), low beta, high theta, low alpha and slowed mean frequency were associated with development of dementia. Existing studies suggest that neuroimaging measures have the potential to become valuable tools in the early diagnosis of AD. To establish their value in routine use, larger studies, preferably with long prospective follow-up are needed."}
{"id": "12590373", "title": "[The Charles Bonnet syndrome: a case report and a brief review].", "content": "[The Charles Bonnet syndrome: a case report and a brief review]. The Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) is a rare disease that also seems to be generally misdiagnosed. Initially described in the XVIII century by the philosopher with the same name, it consist in complex visual hallucinations in elderly people who suffer sensory deprivation with no other psychopathology. The hypothesis on the neurophysiology of hallucinations suggests, as in other diseases that present hallucinations, some implication of thalamus-cortex pathway release. Some authors have proposed CBS as an early marker of dementia and Parkinson's disease. Nevertheless, the results in functional neuroimaging are not conclusive. Regarding treatment, typical and atypical neuroleptics do not seem to be useful and recent studies suggest that the new anticonvulsants could be effcient. The patient should be informed about CBS as a <non-psychiatric disease>. In the case reported, the patient presented complex hallucinations with normal SPECT and neuropsychological examinations. The patient did not respond to treatment with risperidone, presenting a favorable evolucion with valpromide. Although further research is needed, this case report supports the efficacy of valpromide in CBS."}
{"id": "12584413", "title": "Progressive nonfluent aphasia and subsequent aphasic dementia associated with atypical progressive supranuclear palsy pathology.", "content": "Progressive nonfluent aphasia and subsequent aphasic dementia associated with atypical progressive supranuclear palsy pathology. We describe a right-handed man who developed progressive nonfluent aphasia and apraxia of speech beginning at age 71. By age 74 he had behavioral changes, aphasic dementia, as well as mild parkinsonism; extraocular movements were normal except for mild limitation of upgaze. Serial neuropsychometric testing and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans showed progressive changes reflecting left>right cerebral hemisphere dysfunction. Neuropathologic examination revealed findings characteristic of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) except that the cortical pathology was more widespread than is typical of PSP. We conclude that the clinical manifestations in this case were more similar to the syndrome of progressive nonfluent aphasia with subsequent aphasic dementia and mild parkinsonism, rather than those of PSP. Hence, PSP can present clinically as an atypical dementing syndrome dominated by progressive aphasia/apraxia of speech."}
{"id": "12574950", "title": "Quantification of the heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia.", "content": "Quantification of the heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow in vascular dementia. In vascular dementia (VaD), assessment of cerebral blood flow by single photon emission computed tomography (CBF SPECT) has been used to detect a patchy decrease of blood flow or a frontal reduction. In addition to reduced blood flow, the heterogeneous distribution of cerebral blood flow is often observed in VaD. However, no objective method to evaluate the heterogeneity has been established. In this study, we applied three-dimensional fractal analysis (3D-FA) to CBF SPECT images as a method for assessing the heterogeneity of the cerebral blood flow distribution in VaD. The subjects included 18 patients with a diagnosis of VaD (aged 69.7 +/- 8.3) based on neuropsychological testing and imaging findings and 18 age-matched controls (aged 66.9 +/- 10.3). CBF SPECT images were obtained with (99m)Tc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime. On the reconstructed images, we obtained a linear regression equation between the cut-off values (from 35 to 50 %) and the number of voxels with a radioactivity exceeding the cut-off value transformed into natural logarithms, and then calculated the fractal dimension from the slope of the regression line thus obtained. The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was used to evaluate cognitive function. The fractal dimensions were 1.084 +/- 0.153 and 0.853 +/- 0.062 (mean +/- SD) in the VaD and control groups, respectively. The fractal dimension was significantly greater in the VaD group than in the control group (p < 0.0001). A significant negative correlation was observed between the fractal dimension and the MMSE score in the VaD group (r = 0.871, p < 0.0001). Because the CBF SPECT images of VaD patients showed a higher fractal dimension, these images were quantitatively more heterogeneous than those of age-matched controls. In the VaD group, cognitive function was shown to decline as the fractal dimension increased and images became more heterogeneous."}
{"id": "12567332", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies. The objective was to summarize recent findings about the clinical features, diagnosis and investigation of dementia with Lewy (DLB) bodies, together with its neuropathology, neurochemistry and genetics. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a primary, neurodegenerative dementia sharing clinical and pathological characteristics with both Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Antiubiquitin immunocytochemical staining, developed in the early 1990s, allowed the frequency and distribution of cortical LBs to be defined. More recently, alpha-synuclein antibodies have revealed extensive neuritic pathology in DLB demonstrating a neurobiological link with other \"synucleinopathies\" including PD and multiple system atrophy (MSA). The most significant correlates of cognitive failure in DLB appear to be with cortical LB and Lewy neurites (LNs) rather than Alzheimer type pathology. Clinical diagnostic criteria for DLB, published in 1996, have been subjected to several validation studies against autopsy findings. These conclude that although diagnostic specificity is high (range 79- 100%, mean 92%), sensitivity is lower (range 0- 83 %, mean, 49%). Improved methods of case detection are therefore required. Fluctuating impairments in attention, visual recognition and construction are more indicative of DLB than AD. Relative preservation of medial temporal lobe volume on structural MRI and the use of SPECT tracers for regional blood flow and the dopamine transporter are the most reliable current biomarkers for DLB. There are no genetic or CSF tests recommended for the diagnosis of DLB at present. Between 15 and 20% of all elderly demented cases reaching autopsy have DLB, making it the most common cause of degenerative dementia after AD. Exquisite, not infrequently fatal, sensitivity to neuroleptic drugs and encouraging reports of the effects of cholinesterase inhibitors on cognitive, psychiatric and neurological features, mean that an accurate diagnosis of DLB is more than merely of academic interest. Dementia developing late in the course of PD shares many of the same clinical and pathological characteristics."}
{"id": "12563122", "title": "Neuroimaging and early diagnosis of Alzheimer disease: a look to the future.", "content": "Neuroimaging and early diagnosis of Alzheimer disease: a look to the future. Alzheimer disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. Current consensus statements have emphasized the need for early recognition and the fact that a diagnosis of AD can be made with high accuracy by using clinical, neuropsychologic, and imaging assessments. Magnetic resonance (MR) or computed tomographic (CT) imaging is recommended for the routine evaluation of AD. Coronal MR images can be useful to document or quantify atrophy of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, both of which occur early in the disease process. Both volumetric and subtraction MR techniques can be used to quantify and monitor dementia progression and rates of regional atrophy. MR measures are also increasingly being used to monitor treatment effects in clinical trials of cognitive enhancers and antidementia agents. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission CT offer value in the differential diagnosis of AD from other cortical and subcortical dementias and may also offer prognostic value. In addition, PET studies have demonstrated that subtle abnormalities may be apparent in the prodromal stages of AD and in subjects who carry susceptibility genes. PET ligands are in late-stage development for demonstration of amyloid plaques, and human studies have already begun. Functional MR-based memory challenge tests are in development as well."}
{"id": "12480092", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia and Pick complex.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia and Pick complex. Ten autopsied patients from a prospectively followed, clinically defined, neuropsychologically and radiologically documented cohort with primary progressive aphasia were histologically characterized. All were variants of frontotemporal degeneration (Pick complex): Pick body dementia, n=3, corticobasals degeneration (CBD), n=4, and tau and synuclein negative ubiquitinated inclusions of the motor neuron disease type, n=3. All shared superficial cortical spongiosis, neuronal loss, and gliosis. Although most patients had fluent anomic aphasia at onset, all progressed to a nonfluent or mute state. Comprehension, episodic memory, and activities of daily living were initially preserved. Three cases with Pick body dementia had verbal apraxia and stuttering at onset. Two of the patients with CBD pathology were older than the average primary progressive aphasia (PPA). All patients developed secondary syndromes either of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and/or extrapyramidal-apraxic manifestations (CBD). By the time autopsy was obtained, the pathology appeared outside the language areas. Progressive aphasias secondary to Alzheimer's disease (AD) were excluded on the basis of early loss of memory and comprehension.Rather than the previously emphasized histological heterogeneity, clinically probable PPA has a predictive value of a group of related pathologies, collectively named frontotemporal degeneration, or Pick complex. This series of autopsied cases provides evidence for the clinical and pathological overlap of PPA with FTD and CBD, and contributes to the diagnostic and neuropsychological definition of PPA."}
{"id": "15259399", "title": "rCBF/SPECT in the evaluation of inner-city minority patients with a history of impaired memory: a pilot blind read pre- and poststudy.", "content": "rCBF/SPECT in the evaluation of inner-city minority patients with a history of impaired memory: a pilot blind read pre- and poststudy. Eight patients (seven women), mean +/- SD T1 age 68.57 +/- 12.43 years, average educational level 5.83 +/- 3.70 years, had two Tc-99m ECD SPECT examinations separated by an average 8.49 +/- 5.59 months. Patients were imaged using standard Harlem Hospital acquisition and processing protocols with approximately 30 mCi of ECD on a Prism 3000 triple head gamma camera. Images were interpreted by an independent reader blinded to the patients' clinical history and imaging date. T1 psychiatric diagnosis was seven Alzheimer's dementia (AD) and one depression. Eight T1 images were interpreted as abnormal, six indicative of AD. Binomial 95% two-tail confidence interval for T1 agreement between diagnosis and interpretation was 0.25 0.63 0.92. T2 diagnosis was seven AD and one none. Seven T2 images were abnormal and indicative of AD, and one was normal. T2 confidence interval was 0.34 0.75 0.97. These findings suggest SPECT's value in assessing AD in uneducated socioeconomically disadvantaged geriatric patients."}
{"id": "12739388", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia and apraxia of the upper limbs].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia and apraxia of the upper limbs]. We report a 61-year-old, right-handed woman with motor neuron disease, dementia, and apraxia of the upper limbs. The patient developed clumsiness of the right hand and dysarthria two years and a half prior to admission. Neurological examination showed limb-kinetic apraxia and ideomotor apraxia, predominantly on the right side, in addition to dementia and anarthria. There was mild muscle wasting in the neck and hands. A muscle biopsy from the biceps muscle of arm as well as needle EMG revealed neurogenic changes compatible with motor neuron disease. Brain MRI indicated pyramidal tract degeneration. Three-dimensional brain perfusion imaging generated from SPECT demonstrated an asymmetric decrease in cerebral blood flow in the fronto-temporo-parietal regions, predominantly on the left side. This case suggests that asymmetric limb apraxia can be associated with motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "12739380", "title": "[Compulsive repetition of movements in a case of progressive supranuclear palsy].", "content": "[Compulsive repetition of movements in a case of progressive supranuclear palsy]. A 51-year-old right-handed man with an 8-year history of progressive supranuclear palsy developed a peculiar behavior including compulsive repetition of movements. At the age of 47, it was noted that he continuously scratched his trunk with the right hand. He also scratched his thighs until his trousers were torn. On the scalp, posterior neck and forearms, patches of skin were scraped away and the bleeding wounds were scratched over and over again. Although he perceived pain, he could not terminate the strange scratching movement. He could not stop his eating action even after the bowl became empty. He could not leave the bathroom because he continued to wipe the anus after defecation. Yet the patient was not demented. Psychometric assessments including Wechsler adult intelligence scale revised, meaningful and meaningless syllables memory test. Raven's color matrix test, Wisconsin card sorting test (Keio version), and modified Stroop test were within the normal range. When requested to write a letter or a figure, he was always successful, however, he endlessly wrote the same letter or figure until he was told to stop. Although he repeated the behavior and could not terminate the action by himself, he immediately stopped the action on verbal command. When another task was given during the repetitive action, he responded quickly and successfully. His strange behavior was compulsive because he wanted to cease it, but it was not compulsive-obsessive behavior because he did not feel anxiety or pain when his repetitive action was stopped. It was different from stereotypy because he repeated not only meaningless movements but also meaningful complex actions. Unlike perseveration, he changed his activity immediately and successfully when a new task was given. Magnetic resonance imaging findings were remarkable only for mild atrophy of the midbrain tegmentum. Single photon emission computed tomography with ethyl cysteinate dimer demonstrated hypoperfusion in the frontal lobes and the left thalamus. A thalamofrontal disconnection or dysfunction is suggested as the mechanism underlying the compulsive repetifim of moving its based on the SPECT findings in this patient."}
{"id": "12739379", "title": "[Non-persistent \"doll phenomenon\" in a patient with right thalamic infarction].", "content": "[Non-persistent \"doll phenomenon\" in a patient with right thalamic infarction]. An 81-year-old right-handed woman was admitted because of acute dysarthria and left hemiparesis. She had lived herself without aids until the admission. On neurological examination she was confused and disoriented. She was ambulant, but had mild dysarthria and mild left hemiparesis. Neuropsychological tests showed severe impairment of memory, mild impairment of visual cognition, decreased fluency of word recall and mild paramnesia, but no acalculia, agraphia, aphasia or apraxia. MRI of the brain showed small infarction in the right anterior thalamus. 123I-IMP SPECT demonstrated a decrease in CBF of the thalamus, basal ganglia and frontal lobe on the right. During admission, she always played with a doll as if she took it as a real baby. This peculiar symptom. \"doll phenomenon\" continued for approximately three months later. The \"doll phenomenon\" usually appears in demented patients with diffuse mental deterioration or dysfunction of the frontal lobe. The present patient had not been demented until the onset of the thalamic infarction, and disturbance of cognition caused by the right thalamic infarction probably produced the \"doll phenomenon\"."}
{"id": "12604293", "title": "Transient aphasia and persistent amnesia after surgery for internal carotid artery--posterior communicating artery aneurysm.", "content": "Transient aphasia and persistent amnesia after surgery for internal carotid artery--posterior communicating artery aneurysm. We report a case of transient aphasia and persistent amnesia after clipping of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm to treat a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Postoperatively, aphasia was identified and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an abnormal intensity area in the left anterior thalamus. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) revealed a wider area of low perfusion surrounding the left thalamus and left frontotemporal lobe than that shown by the MRI. His aphasia resolved over the subsequent 12-week period. He was left with an isolated disturbance of memory; in the absence of any dementia, aphasia or disturbance of consciousness, his condition was classified as one of amnesia. SPECT 14 weeks after admission revealed an area of low perfusion limited to the left thalamus. These findings suggest that the persistence of amnesia in this case was caused by the infarction of the mammillothalamic tract, and the recovery from aphasia may have resulted from the disappearance of surrounding edema."}
{"id": "12553341", "title": "Interobserver variation in diagnosis of dementia by brain perfusion SPECT.", "content": "Interobserver variation in diagnosis of dementia by brain perfusion SPECT. Brain perfusion SPECT (BP-SPECT) has characteristic patterns of abnormality, enabling the differential diagnosis of dementia. The purpose of this study was to measure interobserver variations in the diagnosis of dementia using BP-SPECT. BP-SPECT images of 57 cases, 19 of Alzheimer's disease (AD), eight of multi-infarct dementia (MID), three of Pick's disease, five of other dementias, and 22 normal controls, were interpreted by ten nuclear medicine physicians with varying levels of experience. Brain MR images of the cases were then interpreted apart from SPECT. The physicians independently rated all of the diagnoses listed beforehand according to a five-point scale, with clinical information provided. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves and the area under the ROC curve (Az) were calculated. Az varied from 0.48 to 0.87. Mean Az's were significantly larger (p<0.05) in the diagnosis by SPECT than in that by MRI (0.715 and 0.629 for dementia vs. normal, 0.670 and 0.560 for AD or MID vs. normal, 0.610 and 0.416 for AD vs. normal, and 0.672 and 0.412 for AD vs. MID, respectively). Considerable interobserver variation was present in BP-SPECT interpretation. BP-SPECT may be more effective for the evaluation of dementia than MRI when the same nuclear medicine physicians interpret both images."}
{"id": "12540758", "title": "[Neuroimaging of Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging of Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia]."}
{"id": "12491148", "title": "Human immunodeficiency virus dementia: evidence of a subcortical process from studies of fine finger movements.", "content": "Human immunodeficiency virus dementia: evidence of a subcortical process from studies of fine finger movements. HIV-1 associated dementia is the major manifestation of HIV-1 within the central nervous system and a devastating disease which is characterized by cognitive, motor, and emotional deficits. HIV-1 associated minor motor deficits can manifest as psychomotor slowing and predict the later development of HIV-1 associated dementia, AIDS, and death. These minor motor deficits can be described, e.g., by electrophysiological assessment of basal ganglia motor function (frequency of most rapid alternating finger movements, reaction and contraction times of most rapid index finger extensions). Minor motor deficits quantified by contraction times can be subdivided into a more incipient and a more sustained type of deficit. Parallel examination of motor function and positron emission tomography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the basal ganglia, or SPECT helps to point to the basal ganglia as a pivotal point of HIV-1 associated CNS pathology."}
{"id": "12489916", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: metabolism, neurochemistry, and morphology.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: metabolism, neurochemistry, and morphology. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is recognized as one of the most common forms of neurodegenerative dementia. Neuroimaging contributes to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of DLB by examining alterations in brain metabolism, neurochemisty, and morphology in living patients. Neuroimaging can provide objective and quantifiable antemortem markers for the presence of and the progression of DLB and permits differentiation from other dementias. This article reviews current neuroimaging findings in DLB with particular attention to occipital hypometabolism, dopaminergic and cholinergic deficits, and medial temporal lobe atrophy as measured by positron emission tomography, single-photon emission computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "12485516", "title": "[A clinicopathological study of corticobasal degeneration].", "content": "[A clinicopathological study of corticobasal degeneration]. To elucidate clinical and pathological features of corticobasal degeneration. Clinical and image materials of 2 the aged with movement disturbances and dementia were reviewed, their brain tissues were investigated by routine pathological methods, Gallyas-Braak staining and Tau immunohistochemical staining. Both cases early presented movement disturbance on unilateral extremity including akinesia, rest tremor, postural instability, and then gradually developed rigidity of axial and four extremities, myoclonus, impaired ocular movement, cognitive disturbance from moderate dementia to decorticate state. On SPECT, one case showed hypoperfusion of left frontal-temporal cortices, another presented asymmetric atrophy of frontal-parietal cortices on CT. Main findings on routine pathological examination were prominent atrophy of the frontal-parietal lobe, the basal ganglia, the midbrain and upper pons. The cortical layers of the frontal, parietal and insular lobe showed mild neuronal loss with gliosis and scattered ballooned neurons. Neuron losses and extensive gliosis of basal ganglia and substantia nigra were remarkable. Gallyas-Braak and tau staining showed globous inclusion in remaining neurons of basal ganglia, substantia nigra and locus ceruleus et at, substantive glial cytoskeletol degeneration including astrocyte plaques, tuft-shaped astrocyte were also found in cortex on frontal and parietal lobe and in basal ganglia. Based on the above-mentioned clinical and pathological features, it may be not difficult to diagnosis corticobasal degeneration."}
{"id": "12480791", "title": "Responses to donepezil in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Responses to donepezil in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia, but Parkinson's disease also shows dementia in the later stages. Donepezil is a cholinesterase inhibitor used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Variable responses to this drug suggest that Alzheimer's disease is clinically heterogeneous. In the clinical trial of tacrine, a first developed cholinesterase inhibitor, three cases markedly improved and, several years later, they were pathologically confirmed as dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In recent years, another cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine, has also been reported to be effective for patients with DLB by a placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Parkinson's disease with dementia, which is known to fulfill the pathological criteria of DLB, also shows a favorable response to donepezil. In some cases, not only does cognitive function improve, but also parkinsonism. Both DLB and Parkinson's disease with dementia show characteristic CBF patterns: While the parietal and temporal lobes are involved in Alzheimer's disease, the occipital lobe is additionally affected in these diseases. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease have been considered discrete disease entities. However, viewed from the aspects of response to donepezil treatment and CBF patterns, both diseases overlapped. A brain SPECT may be a useful tool to detect such treatable conditions."}
{"id": "12480442", "title": "Dopamine agonist monotherapy in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Dopamine agonist monotherapy in Parkinson's disease. Levodopa is the gold-standard therapy for Parkinson's disease. However, long-term treatment leads to involuntary movements and response fluctuations which add to the complexities of later disease-management. In addition, preclinical evidence suggests that levodopa is toxic to dopaminergic neurons. These problems have led to a move away from levodopa towards initial monotherapy with a dopamine agonist. Positron-emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) tracers have been developed which may be considered surrogate markers for remaining dopaminergic neurons. In a randomised controlled trial in patients with early Parkinson's disease, the Parkinson Study Group used 123I-beta-CIT SPECT (JAMA 2002; 287: 1653-61). Those patients given pramipexole had significantly reduced loss of striatal uptake at 46 months compared with those given levodopa (16.0% vs 25.5%). In a similar trial, Alan Whone and colleagues used 18F-DOPA PET (Neurology 2002; 58 [suppl 3]: A82-83). Patients given ropinirole had significantly reduced loss of striatal uptake at 24 months compared with those given levodopa (13% vs 20%). These studies suggest that agonist monotherapy may be neuroprotective and/or that levodopa is toxic. This work has been criticised as the SPECT results may have resulted from a differential effect of the agonist and levodopa on the regulation of the dopamine transporter, thereby influencing the imaging outcome measure. Other criticisms include insufficient data on the use of the potential neuroprotectant selegiline and patients on pramipexole in the SPECT study appear to have been clinically slow progressors. Single clinical trials with each of the four modern agonists compared with levodopa show that as monotherapy the agonists delay the onset of involuntary movements, although at the expense of poorer treatment of motor impairments and disability and more dopaminergic adverse events. The only health-related quality of life data show no difference between pramipexole and levodopa after 4 years. No information on health-economics measures is available but agonists cost two to three times as much as levodopa. WHERE NEXT? Young patients should be treated with agonist monotherapy since the trials included predominantly younger patients who have a higher incidence of motor complications. Those with significant co-morbidity, dementia, or a short life-expectancy should be treated with the lowest dose of levodopa required to maintain motor function. For the vast majority though, no clear guidance can be given. Further large-scale pragmatic trials in large numbers of patients over prolonged periods are urgently required."}
{"id": "12476580", "title": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis presented with alexia of kanji and word meaning aphasia].", "content": "[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis presented with alexia of kanji and word meaning aphasia]. We report a 63-year-old right-handed Japanese man with progressive bulbar dysfunction and alexia of kanji (Japanese morphograms). He was well until his 62 years of age, when he noted difficulty of reading kanji, which was followed by disturbances in his speech. Reading of kana (Japanese phonograms) was preserved. He also showed naming difficulties with semantic memory loss for words, which were characterized for word meaning aphasia or semantic dementia. He showed dysarthria and mild dysphagia with atrophy and fasciculations of the tongue. The electromyographic studies disclosed diffuse neurogenic pattern. He was diagnosed as having bulbar type amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging and single-photon emission computed tomography revealed bilateral involvements of the temporal lobes. Our patient appeared to meet the clinical criteria for frontotemporal degeneration of motor neuron disease type, and is the first case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis showing alexia of kanji and word meaning aphasia."}
{"id": "12474288", "title": "[A case of slowly progressive unilateral spastic hemiparasis, hand clumsiness, limb ataxia and constructional apraxia].", "content": "[A case of slowly progressive unilateral spastic hemiparasis, hand clumsiness, limb ataxia and constructional apraxia]. A 65-year-old woman was seen in our clinic because of a 4-year history of slowly progressive left hand clumsiness and left limping. Neurologically, she had left-side spastic hemiparasis including her tongue, hand clumsiness, limb ataxia, constructional apraxia, and memory impairment. Dementia, parkinsonism and lower motor neuron sign were not confirmed. MRI study showed diffuse cerebral atrophy and shrinkage of the right cerebral peduncle and pontine base. SPECT (99mTc-ECD) study revealed hypoperfusion of the right fronto-parietal cortex. This is a rare case presented with slowly progressive left-side spastic hemiparasis, mimicking Mills' syndrome. In addition this case had other cortical signs, such as ipsilateral hand clumsiness, limb ataxia, constructional apraxia. Neuroimaging study suspects that the right front-parietal cortex is the primary lesion. Etiologically atypical motor neuron disease with adjacent cortical involvement is suspected rather than corticobasal degeneration with severe unilateral pyramidal tract degeneration."}
{"id": "12458405", "title": "Functional brain imaging in the dementias: role in early detection, differential diagnosis, and longitudinal studies.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in the dementias: role in early detection, differential diagnosis, and longitudinal studies. This review considers the role of functional brain imaging techniques in the dementias. The substantial assistance that especially single-photon emission tomography and positron emission tomography can play in the initial diagnosis of dementia and in the differential diagnosis of the specific dementing disorder is discussed. These techniques alone essentially match the sensitivity and specificity of clinical diagnoses in distinguishing Alzheimer's dementia (AD) from age-matched controls, from frontal lobe dementia and vascular dementia, and even from Lewy body dementia. Newer analytic techniques such as voxel-based correlational analyses and discriminant function analyses enhance the power of such differential diagnoses. Functional brain imaging techniques can also significantly assist in patient screening for clinical trials. The correlation of the observed deficits with specific patterns of cognitive abnormalities permits enhanced patient management and treatment planning and improved longitudinal assessment of outcome. It is also noteworthy that the classic abnormalities of temporoparietal and posterior cingulate hypoperfusion or hypometabolism appear to be present prior to symptom onset. These abnormalities predict progression to AD in the presence of the earliest of symptoms, and are present even in cognitively normal but at-risk subjects, with a severity proportional to the risk status. Even greater predictive ability for progression to AD is obtained by combining measures of perfusion or metabolism with risk factors, tau protein levels, hippocampal N-Acetyl aspartate concentrations, or hippocampal volume measures."}
{"id": "12451466", "title": "Clinical characteristics of frontotemporal patients with symmetric brain atrophy.", "content": "Clinical characteristics of frontotemporal patients with symmetric brain atrophy. In this paper we explored patterns of frontal and temporal asymmetry in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and tried to isolate clinical correlates associated with asymmetry or lack thereof. Volumes of frontal and temporal lobes, hippocampus and entorhinal cortex were measured using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 10 patients with FTD. Age- and cranial size-specific values were computed through linear regression analysis (W-scores). A subgroup of 3 patients with symmetric frontal and temporal atrophy was identified. When compared to patients with asymmetric atrophy, the former had younger age at onset of the disease (p = 0.02), greater overall frontotemporal (p = 0.02) and greater entorhinal atrophy (p < 0.04). Two of the three patients were apolipoprotein E epsilon4 carriers versus none of the asymmetric patients (p = 0.02). The lack of asymmetry in this small sample of FTD patients was associated with greater brain atrophy, younger age at onset, and presence of the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E. The presence of the epsilon4 allele is consistent with the hypothesis of greater vulnerability of the brain in epsilon4 carriers."}
{"id": "12451207", "title": "A patient with dementia with Lewy bodies and codon 232 mutation of PRNP.", "content": "A patient with dementia with Lewy bodies and codon 232 mutation of PRNP. The authors describe a patient who had a point mutation at codon 232 of the prion protein gene, resulting in the substitution of methionine for arginine (M232R). The patient developed dementia and died 6 years after its onset. Autopsy revealed dementia with Lewy bodies, not Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Although the M232R mutation has been reported to cause Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, findings in our patient suggest that not all patients presenting progressive dementia with M232R mutation have Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease."}
{"id": "12428367", "title": "[Predictors of long-term institutionalization in patients with Alzheimer's disease: role of caregiver burden].", "content": "[Predictors of long-term institutionalization in patients with Alzheimer's disease: role of caregiver burden]. The decision of long-term institutionalization of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on multiple patients' and caregivers' characteristics. It is very important to find out factors associated with institutionalization for the timely institutionalization, i.e. for the prevention of premature institutionalization. Among those factors, caregiver burden is reportedly one of the most important factors in Europe and North America. However, no studies have been carried out in Japan. In order to address this issue, we studied outcome of patients with AD. Subjects were 211 patients who fulfilled the criteria of the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association for probable AD. Diagnosis of AD was made through extensive examinations including MRI and PET/SPECT of the brain. The patients included 149 women and 62 men; the mean age was 73.1 +/- 8.0 (SD) years. The Japanese version of Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI), which is a validated tool for assessment of the burden of caregivers for dementia patients, was used to evaluate caregivers' burden through the interview of a principal caregiver by trained nurses. Cognitive, functional, and neuropsychiatric impairments were assessed with standardized instruments of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Hyogo Activities of Daily Living Scale (HADLS), Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), respectively. We annually sent a questionnaire to the caregivers to collect information on the patients' status. It included questions whether and when they died or were institutionalized and whether they had used formal social supports such as home care, day care, and respite care services. Time to death or institutionalization. One-hundred and fifty subjects were followed for at least one year and 51 of them met either end point. The Cox proportional hazard model demonstrated that the baseline caregiver burden was a significant predictor of the end point even after controlling possible confounders. Among these, the use of day care and home care services during the course were significant protective factors. The baseline cognitive and functional disturbances but not neuropsychiatric manifestations were significantly associated with the end point. The caregiver burden is a significant predictor for the death or institutionalization of the patients with AD. The caregiver education which decrease the caregiver burden and prompt the usage of the social care services are necessary to protect premature institutionalization."}
{"id": "12424962", "title": "[A case of parkinsonian syndrome caused by normal pressure hydrocephalus accompanied by the cauda equina neurinoma].", "content": "[A case of parkinsonian syndrome caused by normal pressure hydrocephalus accompanied by the cauda equina neurinoma]. A case of parkinsonian syndrome caused by normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) accompanied by cauda equina neurinoma is reported. A 69-year-old woman presented with typical symptoms of parkinsonism, including akinesia, resting and postual tremor, and cog-wheel rigidity. CT scan of the brain revealed dilatation of ventricles, but she did not present dementia and urinary incontinence that are common symptoms in NPH. Her cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure was normal, and her protein level was high at 2,970 mg/dl. An electroencephalogram (EEG) showed diffuse slow waves. An IMP-SPECT images of the brain showed diffuse reduction of radioisotope uptake. Levodopa was not effective in treating her parkinsonism. Removal of the tumor caused dramatic improvement in her parkinsonism. Her CSF protein level was normalized and EEG and SPECT images were improved after the operation. However, ventricular size on brain CT showed no change. It was considered that the causal mechanism of NPH was due to high protein levels in the CSF. The parkinsonism in this case was caused by dysfunction of the circuits linking the cortex, basal ganglia, and thalamus associated with metabolic disorder due to periventricular ischemia. Typical parkinsonism caused by NPH associated with spinal cord tumor has not been reported. When we examine a patient with parkinsonian syndrome caused by NPH, we should check the CSF protein level. And if that level is high, the possibility of spinal cord tumor should be considered."}
{"id": "12422405", "title": "[A case of intra-axial multiple cavernous angiomas, presented with dementia and cerebellar signs].", "content": "[A case of intra-axial multiple cavernous angiomas, presented with dementia and cerebellar signs]. We reported a case of intra-axial multiple cavernous angiomas, presented with dementia and cerebellar signs. The patient, a right-handed 73-year-old woman, showed gait disturbances, tremor increased while writing and hypoactivity at the age of 71. Treatment with 1-dopa was not effective. At the age of 73, she was diagnosed as having intra-axial multiple cavernous angiomas on the gradient echo MRI study, which demonstrated large numbers of small low density areas (small dots) in the cerebellar cortex and moderate numbers of those in the cerebral cortices. Those small dots were not detected in the basal ganglia, the brain stem, and increased the thalamus. She clinically showed cerebellar signs, such as dysmetria, adiadochokinesia, and tremor worsening in the course of writings, in additions to the constructural apraxia, disturbances of writing, and severe perseverations. Those symptoms slightly fluctuated. However, she did not show any character changes. The results of Wisconsin card sorting test and Trial making test A were different from those usually seen in dementia with multiple infarctions in the cerebral white matters and basal ganglia. Although her cerebellar signs are considered to be due to numerous small dots in the cerebellar cortex, her parietal symptoms could not be understood by slight parietal changes such as hypoperfusions of SPECT, cerebral small dots, and infarctions in the white matters. We speculated that, by interactions between the cerebellar dysfunctions and slight parietal dysfunctions, she developed the parietal symptoms described above, which differed from dementia or Parkinsonism due to multiple cerebral infarctions, and which were characterized by slight fluctuations and alleviations with habituation."}
{"id": "12417387", "title": "SPECT as a diagnostic test in the investigation of dementia.", "content": "SPECT as a diagnostic test in the investigation of dementia. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) permits the assessment of the decrease of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between the different types of dementia (Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD)) and the rCBF in the SPECT examination. In patients with AD, the SPECT examination showed hypoperfusion in temporoparietal regions, contrary to patients with frontotemporal dementia, where hypoperfusion was limited to the frontal area, and compared to patients with VaD, where \"patchy\" rCBF changes were observed in different regions. In mild cases of AD, perfusion deficits were observed in the frontal regions equal to those in VaD. The study shows that the SPECT examination may be useful in distinguishing between AD, VaD, and FTD; however, for proper diagnosis in the early stages of AD, additional factors must be taken into consideration."}
{"id": "12417384", "title": "Analysis of cerebral blood flow of subcortical vascular dementia with single photon emission computed tomography: adaptation of statistical parametric mapping.", "content": "Analysis of cerebral blood flow of subcortical vascular dementia with single photon emission computed tomography: adaptation of statistical parametric mapping. Subcortical vascular dementia (VaD) is a relatively homogeneous subtype of VaD, but the mechanisms of cognitive dysfunction of subcortical VaD are not fully understood. This study investigates the changes of cerebral blood flow (CBF) in patients with subcortical VaD and the contribution of the white matter hyperintensity (WMHI) and clinical severity to CBF changes. 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed to measure the regional CBF and statistical parametric mapping SPM99 software was applied to automated and objective analysis of the SPECT image data. Twenty-three patients (12 male, 11 female) with mild to moderate dementia who met both the criteria of the DSM-IV and probable and possible NINDS-AIREN for VaD and had subcortical white matter changes and lacunar infarctions in brain MRI were evaluated against 17 normal control subjects (7 male, 10 female). The severity of the WMHI was measured by the semi-quantitative scale method proposed by M\u00e4ntyla. The Clinical Dementia Rating scale measured the severity of dementia. SPM analysis of the SPECT image reveals significantly reduced regional CBF in the right thalamus, left caudate nucleus, cingulate, bilateral superior temporal, and left ventral subcallosal gyri in subcortical VaD patients compared to the normal controls (corrected P<0.001). Of four WMHIs, only the deep WMHI was associated with the small CBF reduction in the left superior temporal gyrus (uncorrected P<0.01). The reduction of the CBF according to the severity of dementia was noted in the anterior and posterior association areas (uncorrected P<0.01). Our study suggests that cognitive dysfunction of subcortical VaD may be related to the reduction of the CBF in the brain areas mentioned, which are probably not associated with the severity of periventricular WMHI and dementia."}
{"id": "12417364", "title": "Strategic infarcts of the thalamus in vascular dementia.", "content": "Strategic infarcts of the thalamus in vascular dementia. Strategic infarcts or focal hemorrhages involving the paramedian nuclei of the thalamus may alter consciousness and produce complex neuropsychological symptoms such as impairment of memory, attention and motivation. Lesions disrupting the thalamo-prefrontal circuits lead to severe subcortical dementia. We analysed here the clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging data of 19 patients with cerebrovascular lesions in the thalamus. In six patients with bilateral paramedian infarcts, and in two with anterior thalamic infarcts, vascular dementia and severe personality changes developed. SPECT findings did not correlate with the neuropsychological symptoms. Transcortical sensory and motor aphasia was observed in four patients with thalamic hemorrhages and infarcts. In these patients SPECT detected hypoperfusion in adjacent cortical areas. Clinical symptoms and outcome of four patients are reported in detail. The clinico-morphological correlations of the thalamo-cortical circuits are reviewed and the possible causes of multiple cognitive and behavioural consequences of vascular thalamic lesions are discussed."}
{"id": "12414259", "title": "Statistical parametric mapping of (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: normalizing to cerebellar tracer uptake.", "content": "Statistical parametric mapping of (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: normalizing to cerebellar tracer uptake. For a quantitative comparison of images obtained during (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), brain activity values are usually normalized to a reference region. In studies of Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD), the cerebellum is often used as a reference region, assuming that it is spared any major pathological involvement. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) may enhance the evaluation of SPECT scans in ATD patients. However, current SPM software only allows scaling to average whole brain activity (i.e., global normalization). The aim of this study was to develop an easily applied, objective, and reproducible method for determining average cerebellar tracer uptake so that images can be scaled specifically to cerebellar activity prior to the performance of SPM analysis. We also investigated whether cerebellar normalization increases the sensitivity and specificity of SPM analysis of ATD patients compared with global normalization. Image files were taken from a parallel study investigating the use of SPECT as a diagnostic tool for early onset of ATD. Two methods for determining cerebellar activity were developed: one manually, using templates, the other automated, using specified coordinates entered into a Matlab routine. Group comparison of ATD patients versus controls (= healthy volunteers and depressed patients) was performed on a voxel-by-voxel basis using SPM 96 on Windows 95. Receiver operator characteristics (ROC) were computed for 20 student raters examining patient and control scans with and without single-subject SPMs. The reduction of cerebral blood flow in the group of ATD patients appeared 1.7 times greater in spatial extent when the tracer uptake was normalized to cerebellum rather than to average whole brain activity. Computing the reverse contrast (reductions in the control group compared with ATD patients) produced clusters of significance in globally normalized images which were not manifest after normalizing to cerebellum. This is consistent with the notion that the cerebellum is spared in ATD. Analysis of the area under the ROC curve showed that cerebellar-normalized SPM produced significantly improved accuracy over perfusion scans alone. An easily applied, objective, reproducible method was developed for normalizing images to cerebellum prior to the performance of SPM analysis. Cerebellar normalization produced more extensive abnormalities in SPM analyses of ATD patients than global normalization. Furthermore, cerebellar normalization produced marginally more accurate diagnostic results in single-scan SPM analysis of ATD patients than did global normalization."}
{"id": "12411761", "title": "Biological correlates of clinical subgroups of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Biological correlates of clinical subgroups of Alzheimer's disease. We considered it possible that the differences in clinical symptoms between two suggested subgroups of Alzheimer's disease (AD), AD type I and AD type II, have biological correlates, for instance different metabolic profiles. Therefore, we performed regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements and investigated the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the monoamine metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-HIAA, and HMPG in 15 patients with AD type I, in 36 patients with AD type II, in a control group and in a contrast group consisting of 16 patients with frontotemporal dementia. The results suggest that there are underlying biological correlates of the phenomenological discrepancies between AD type I and AD type II. For instance, a decreased CSF level of HVA (p < 0.001) was specific to AD type I and decreased rCBF (p < 0.05 to <0.001) in three particular regions was specific to AD type II."}
{"id": "12410062", "title": "A patient with Cotard syndrome who showed an improvement in single photon emission computed tomography findings after successful treatment with antidepressants.", "content": "A patient with Cotard syndrome who showed an improvement in single photon emission computed tomography findings after successful treatment with antidepressants. We report the case of a presenile woman with Cotard syndrome, in the context of major depression, who showed an improvement in bilateral frontal hypoperfusion in a SPECT study using 99mTc-HMPAO after undergoing successful treatment with antidepressant therapy. We also retrospectively evaluated her clinical course based on the clinical stages. The symptoms of Cotard syndrome have been reported to change dramatically according to the stages. This peculiarity made it difficult for us to rapidly diagnose Cotard syndrome in the context of major depression, and not dementia, and thereby adequately treat the patient in our case. Differences in the reduced blood flow regions and a time lag from psychiatric remission were observed before the improvement in the SPECT findings when comparing our case with a previously reported case of Cotard syndrome. These differences suggest that the mechanism of Cotard syndrome is still not well understood at the present time."}
{"id": "12397463", "title": "Voxel-based comparison of rCBF SPET images in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease highlights the involvement of different cortical networks.", "content": "Voxel-based comparison of rCBF SPET images in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease highlights the involvement of different cortical networks. Characteristic patterns of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) reduction, as detected by technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) single-photon emission tomography (SPET), may help clinicians in differentiating patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) from those with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in some cases these patients may share common rCBF abnormalities and the visual analysis and/or the region of interest (ROI) approach may not sensitively detect more localised focal changes that could be more specific for each pathology. Recently, automated voxel-by-voxel statistical analysis of perfusion brain maps has been applied to SPET images. This method has the advantage of including the rCBF information for the whole brain for statistical analysis without any a priori hypothesis regarding the regions possibly involved. This could result in a better characterisation of rCBF differences in brain regions while also reducing the operator's subjectivity and the time required for data analysis. The purpose of this study was to apply such a technique to highlight the specific brain areas showing a relative functional involvement in FTD and AD. Thus, we compared the relative rCBF patterns obtained in eight FTD patients with those obtained in 21 AD patients using (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPET and statistical parametric mapping (SPM). When FTD patients were compared with AD patients, relatively lower rCBF was observed in right medial frontal cortex (BA 8, 9, 10), right anterior cingulate cortex (BA 32), right temporal cortex (BA 21/22), right orbitofrontal cortex (BA 11) and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 47); in BA 47 the reduction was evident bilaterally but was more marked on the right side. On the other hand, when AD patients were compared with FTD patients, a significant relative rCBF decrease was found in the bilateral superior parietal cortex (BA 7); this decrease was more extensive on the left side, where it also included the inferior parietal (BA 40), superior occipital (BA 19) and temporo-occipital regions (BA 39, 19). The results of this study confirm the preferential involvement of the frontotemporal regions in FTD patients and of the temporoparietal regions in AD patients. Furthermore, they highlight the networks that are more specifically impaired in these disorders and that could be implicated in the emotional-behavioural and cognitive disturbances that characterise FTD and AD respectively."}
{"id": "12355885", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with progressive aphasia and dementia].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with progressive aphasia and dementia]. We report a 71-year-old woman showing rapidly progressive non-fluent aphasia and dementia accompanied by motor neuron disease (MND). There was no family history of dementia or motor neuron disease. There was 10 months history of dysarthria and dysphagia. On examination, she showed profound difficulty in articulation. Her comprehension was impaired in that she was unable to obey three-stage command. Her written language was also impaired with phonological spelling errors, syntactic errors, and perseveration. Neuroradiological investigations showed atrophic changes and hypoperfusion of left temporal and bilateral parietal region revealed by MRI and SPECT, respectively. Her subsequent decline was rapid. It might be likely that aphasia is much more common in dementia with bulbar MND than is currently recognized because bulbar palsy might mask the language disorder."}
{"id": "12355877", "title": "[Statistic rCBF study of extrapyramidal disorders].", "content": "[Statistic rCBF study of extrapyramidal disorders]. We studied regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 16 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), 2 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 2 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), 2 patients with striatonigral degeneration, and 16 normal volunteers, using Three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3 D-SSP). Decreased rCBF in PD patients was shown in the posterior parietal and occipital cortex. Decreased rCBF in DLB was shown in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex with relative sparing of the sensorimotor cortex. Decreased rCBF in PSP was shown in the frontal cortex. Decreased rCBF in SND was shown in the frontal cortex and cerebellum. Statistic rCBF analysis using 3 D-SSP was a useful measure for the early differential diagnosis of extrapyramidal disorders."}
{"id": "12297267", "title": "Comparative distribution of binding of the muscarinic receptor ligands pirenzepine, AF-DX 384, (R,R)-I-QNB and (R,S)-I-QNB to human brain.", "content": "Comparative distribution of binding of the muscarinic receptor ligands pirenzepine, AF-DX 384, (R,R)-I-QNB and (R,S)-I-QNB to human brain. Quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) and its derivatives are being developed to investigate muscarinic receptor changes in vivo in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. This is the first study of [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB and [125I]-(R,S)-I-QNB binding in vitro in human brain. We have compared the in vitro binding of the muscarinic ligands [3H]pirenzepine and [3H]AF-DX 384, which have selectivity for the M1 and M2/M4 receptor subtypes, respectively, to the binding of [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB and [125I]-(R,S)-I-QNB. This will provide a guide to the interpretation of in vivo SPET images generated with [123I]-(R,R)-I-QNB and [123I]-(R,S)-I-QNB. Binding was investigated in striatum, globus pallidus, thalamus and cerebellum, and cingulate, insula, temporal and occipital cortical areas, which show different proportions of muscarinic receptor subtypes, in post-mortem brain from normal individuals. M1 receptors are of high density in cortex and striatum and are relatively low in the thalamus and cerebellum, while M4 receptors are mainly expressed in the striatum, and M2 receptors are most evident in the cerebellum and thalamus. [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB and [125I]-(R,S)-I-QNB density distribution patterns were consistent with binding to both M1 and M4 receptors, with [125I]-(R,R)-I-QNB additionally binding to a non-cholinergic site not displaceable by atropine. This distribution can be exploited by in vivo imaging, developing ligands for both SPET and PET, to reveal muscarinic receptor changes in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies during the disease process and following cholinergic therapy."}
{"id": "12296553", "title": "Medical imaging in neurological disorders.", "content": "Medical imaging in neurological disorders. Functional imaging is clinically useful in evaluating cerebrovascular disease, dementia, and presurgical localization of epileptic foci. Both PET and SPECT are complex technologies that must be performed carefully to yield interpretable images. SPECT and PET images can be very useful in detecting the changes in blood flow or glucose metabolism of epileptogenic tissues, although image interpretation in infants and young children must consider the differing types and levels of activity in the developing brain. PET and SPECT are being used to evaluate a new generation of antiparkinsonian medications aimed at slowing the course of the disease, rather than simply symptom abatement."}
{"id": "12271417", "title": "Value of (99m)Tc-ECD SPET for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Value of (99m)Tc-ECD SPET for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. Despite improved diagnostic accuracy, differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) on the basis of clinical findings remains problematic. The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the utility of technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) single-photon emission tomography (SPET) as a potential tool for the diagnosis of DLB and discrimination from AD. Cerebral perfusion patterns detected by (99m)Tc-ECD SPET were compared in patients presenting with a probable diagnosis of DLB ( n=34) or AD ( n=28). Tracer distribution was quantified using the region of interest technique in eight symmetrical paired zones and expressed as a perfusion index (ratio of mean uptake in a brain region to that in the cerebellum). Comparison of findings in the DLB and AD groups demonstrated significant differences in mean perfusion indexes in the right occipital region ( P=0.004), left occipital region ( P=0.005) and left medial temporal region ( P=0.013). Mean perfusion indexes in the right and left occipital regions were lower in DLB than in AD patients. Conversely, the mean perfusion index in the left medial temporal region was lower in AD than in DLB patients. DLB was correctly identified in 22 patients (sensitivity, 65%) while AD was correctly identified in 20 patients (specificity, 71%). In the DLB group, right and left occipital perfusion indexes were 0.95 or more in all eight non-hallucinating patients, and bilateral occipital hypoperfusion was observed in 15 of the 26 patients with visual hallucinations (57.7%). To our knowledge, this is the first study in which (99m)Tc-ECD SPET has been used exclusively for the diagnosis of DLB. The results suggest that brain perfusion scintigraphy could be helpful in distinguishing DLB from AD if diagnosis based on clinical criteria alone is difficult. The findings also support a link between visual hallucinations and structural/functional changes in the occipital region in DLB patients."}
{"id": "12220689", "title": "New onset seizures in HIV-infected patients without intracranial mass lesions or meningitis--a clinical, radiological and SPECT scan study.", "content": "New onset seizures in HIV-infected patients without intracranial mass lesions or meningitis--a clinical, radiological and SPECT scan study. Fifteen HIV-infected patients who presented with new onset seizures (NOS) as the sole neurological manifestation, in whom no cause for the seizure was identifiable, were studied. The patients were mainly female with an average age of 31.3 years. They had generalised new onset seizures with a latency of 1.6 months between the discovery of the HIV positivity and the onset of the seizure. The neurological examinations were normal with no dementia. The electroencephalographic examinations were either normal or there was a generalised epileptic disturbance (GED). The patients have AIDS defining CD4+ T lymphocyte cell counts. There was a high prevalence of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) or multiple non-neurological illnesses in our study group. They have normal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis except for the presence of the HIV virus. All the patients have normal computerised tomogram (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain. All the patients studied have abnormal right or left temporal lobe perfusion defects on the SPECT scan studies of the brain. The findings suggest that the new onset seizures in the HIV-infected patients are associated with direct HIV infection. The SPECT scan findings suggest that the HIV virus induce a focal metabolic abnormality or encephalopathy. The new onset seizure is then the manifestation of this abnormality."}
{"id": "12215920", "title": "[Dementias with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Dementias with Lewy bodies]. Dementias with Lewy bodies are no rare cause of cognitive and motor impairments in old age. Neuropathologically, they must be distinguished into diffuse Lewy body disease resp. dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson's disease with concomitant Alzheimer's pathology, and the Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease according to extent and concomitant pathology. The most reliable diagnostic features of dementia with Lewy bodies are fluctuating disturbances of cognition and consciousness, visual disorders (hallucinations, visuoperceptive and visuoconstructive impairments), and early extrapyramidal signs of the hypokinetic-rigid type with a propensity to frequent falls. The pertinent diagnostic criteria are the consensus criteria according to McKeith et al. Additional contributions are to be expected by functional neuroimaging (SPECT, PET) and CSF examination (homovanillic acid). However, even assuming the most favorable conditions a diagnostic accuracy of 85 % is presently hard to achieve. Particularly, as is demonstrated using a case example, reliable antemortem diagnosis of Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease is hardly possible. Clinically, this group of diseases is important, since increased neuroleptic sensitivity must be taken into account and modern central cholinergic agents seem to be a promising therapeutic option."}
{"id": "12140101", "title": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease: cranial MRI and SPECT findings.", "content": "Marchiafava-Bignami disease: cranial MRI and SPECT findings. Marchiafava-Bignami disease (MBD) associated with chronic alcoholism is a fatal disorder characterized by demyelination of the corpus callosum. It is diagnosed by the imaging of demyelination at the corpus callosum with MRI. This lesion is not only limited to the corpus callosum but also affects the cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical projections due to disconnection and causes frontal lobe syndromes and dementia. In this article, we presented a case that MBD associated with chronic alcoholism."}
{"id": "12135968", "title": "Cerebral perfusion SPET correlated with Braak pathological stage in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion SPET correlated with Braak pathological stage in Alzheimer's disease. Reductions in regional cerebral perfusion, particularly in the posterior temporo-parietal lobes, are well recognized in Alzheimer's disease. We set out to correlate perfusion changes, using (99m)Tc-HMPAO single photon emission tomography (SPET), with the pathological stage of Alzheimer's disease. The 'Braak stage' of the distribution of neurofibrillary pathology in post-mortem brains was used to classify SPET scans taken in life from a mixed (dementia and control) elderly population into the entorhinal stage (n = 23 subjects), limbic stage (n = 30 subjects) and neocortical stage (n = 36 subjects) Alzheimer's disease pathology. The SPET scans were then registered to a common, standard Talaraich space, and single template scans produced for each pathological stage. Comparison of these templates revealed an evolution in the pattern of reduction in regional perfusion. Additional comparisons were performed using earlier SPET scans obtained 5 years before death. For comparisons between templates, a threshold of 10% perfusion change was chosen so as to be clinically relevant as well as statistically significant. Reduced perfusion appears between the entorhinal and limbic stages in the anterior medial temporal lobe, subcallosal area, posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus and possibly the supero-anterior aspects of the cerebellar hemispheres. Large posterior temporo-parietal perfusion defects then appear between the limbic and neocortical stages, before finally large frontal lobe perfusion defects. The time course of these perfusion defects appears relatively long, suggesting that perfusion changes may have scope to be a diagnostic aid in staging Alzheimer's disease in life. The reduction in anterior medial temporal lobe perfusion may have future relevance on modern high resolution SPET and PET systems and also perfusion-type MRI sequences."}
{"id": "12134674", "title": "[Bilateral carotid stenting for bilateral carotid artery stenosis improved vascular dementia].", "content": "[Bilateral carotid stenting for bilateral carotid artery stenosis improved vascular dementia]. We report a case of bilateral internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis treated with stenting. A 78-year-old man suffered from vascular dementia and left hemiparesis, and, by magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA), was diagnosed as having bilateral ICA stenosis. Cerebral angiogram showed severe, bilateral ICA stenosis (right; 88%, left; 93%) and xenon single photon emission tomography (SPECT) showed severely decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR). We performed bilateral carotid angioplasty with self-expanding stents. Both CBF and CVR were improved bilaterally after the operation. The patient was discharged without neurological deficits. Carotid stenting may be an alternative treatment for severe ischemia caused by severe, bilateral ICA stenosis."}
{"id": "12122169", "title": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand.", "content": "Differentiation of dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease using a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is one of the main differential diagnoses of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Key pathological features of patients with DLB are not only the presence of cerebral cortical neuronal loss, with Lewy bodies in surviving neurones, but also loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurones, similar to that of Parkinson's disease (PD). In DLB there is 40-70% loss of striatal dopamine. To determine if detection of this dopaminergic degeneration can help to distinguish DLB from AD during life. The integrity of the nigrostriatal metabolism in 27 patients with DLB, 17 with AD, 19 drug naive patients with PD, and 16 controls was assessed using a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand, (123)I-labelled 2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)-N-(3-fluoropropyl)nortropane (FP-CIT), and single photon emission tomography (SPET). A SPET scan was carried out with a single slice, brain dedicated tomograph (SME 810) 3.5 hours after intravenous injection of 185 MBq FP-CIT. With occipital cortex used as a radioactivity uptake reference, ratios for the caudate nucleus and the anterior and posterior putamen of both hemispheres were calculated. All scans were also rated by a simple visual method. Both DLB and PD patients had significantly lower uptake of radioactivity than patients with AD (p<0.001) and controls (p<0.001) in the caudate nucleus and the anterior and posterior putamen. FP-CIT SPET provides a means of distinguishing DLB from AD during life."}
{"id": "12112194", "title": "Autosomal dominant adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis: parkinsonism due to both striatal and nigral dysfunction.", "content": "Autosomal dominant adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis: parkinsonism due to both striatal and nigral dysfunction. We describe a family with adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, with apparent autosomal dominant inheritance, observed in six affected individuals in three generations. Disease onset was usually in the fifth decade, but was earlier in the youngest generation. Early symptoms consisted of myoclonus in face and arms, epilepsy, auditory symptoms, cognitive decline, or depression. Parkinsonism occurred a few years after disease onset, with stooped posture, shuffling gait, bradykinesia, and mask face. Four subjects deteriorated to a state of severe handicap, with severe dementia, contractures, dysphagia, and dysarthria. Leg weakness evolved to flaccid paraparesis in two patients. Diagnosis was confirmed by brain biopsy in one patient and full autopsy in two patients. Abundant intraneuronal storage of autofluorescent material was found throughout the brain. Electron microscopy showed granular osmiophilic deposits and scarce fingerprint profiles. Striking loss of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and reticulata was found. (123)I-IBZM Single photon emission computed tomography in two patients showed loss of postsynaptic D2 receptor binding in the striatum. We conclude that parkinsonism in ANCL is likely to be caused by both presynaptic nigral cell loss and postsynaptic striatal degeneration."}
{"id": "12111473", "title": "A short review of cognitive and functional neuroimaging studies of cholinergic drugs: implications for therapeutic potentials.", "content": "A short review of cognitive and functional neuroimaging studies of cholinergic drugs: implications for therapeutic potentials. In the last 20 years a cholinergic dysfunction has been the major working hypothesis for the pharmacology of memory disorders. Cholinergic antagonists and lesions impair and different classes of cholinomimetics (i.e. acetylcholine precursors, cholinergic agonists and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors) enhance attention and memory in experiment animals, healthy human subjects and Alzheimer disease patients. In addition, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors improve different cognitive (i.e. visuospatial and verbal) functions in a variety of unrelated disorders such as dementia with Lewy bodies, Parkinson disease, multiple sclerosis, schizoaffective disorders, iatrogenic memory loss, traumatic brain injury, hyperactivity attention disorder and, as we recently reported, vascular dementia and mild cognitive impairment. In animals, different cholinomimetics dose-dependently increased regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) and regional blood flow (rCBF), two indices of neuronal function, more markedly in subcortical regions (i.e. thalamus, hippocampus and visual system nuclei). In both healthy human subjects and Alzheimer disease patients acetylcholinesterase inhibitors increased rCMRglc and rCBF in subcortical and cortical brain regions at rest but attenuated rCBF increases during cognitive performances. Hence, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may enhance cognition and rCMRglc by acting primarily on subcortical regions that are involved in attentional (i.e. thalamus) and memory (i.e. hippocampus) processes; such an effect probably is not specific for Alzheimer disease and can be beneficial in patients suffering from a wide array of neuropsychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "12103462", "title": "Brain single photon emission computed tomography findings in depressive pseudodementia patients.", "content": "Brain single photon emission computed tomography findings in depressive pseudodementia patients. Recently, there have been studies suggesting that depressive pseudodementia would include early-stage dementing disorder. Through the comparison of the 99mTc-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) image of depressive pseudodementia subjects, healthy comparison subjects, depressed subjects free of cognitive impairment, and dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) subjects, we aimed to see part of pathophysiology of the depressive pseudodementia of elderly patients. Study subjects consisted of seven patients with depressive pseudodementia, seven healthy comparison subjects, seven patients with depression free of cognitive impairment, and eleven patients with DAT. Depression patients were diagnosed according to DSM-III-R. DAT patients were diagnosed by DSM III-R and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria of DAT. Other measures for assessment include Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and Mini Mental State Exam. All underwent 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT scan. The images of each group were analyzed using statistical parametric mapping of Friston, which compares the images on voxel-by-voxel basis. The results were as follows (1) The DAT group showed significant decreases of cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the right frontal, right temporal region, and both parietal regions as compared with control group (P < 0.05). (2) The depression group showed a significant decrease of CBF in the left frontal region as compared with control group (P < 0.05). (3) The depressive pseudodementia group showed significant decreases of CBF in both parietal regions as compared with control group (P < 0.05). (4) The depressive pseudodementia group showed significant decreases of CBF in the right temporal region and both parietal regions as compared with depression group (P < 0.05). (5) The DAT group showed significant decreases of CBF in the right temporal region, both frontal regions, and both parietal regions as compared with depressive pseudodementia group (P < 0.05). The small number of subjects may make it difficult to generalize from our results. Because decreased CBF in depressive pseudodementia is found while the subjects were depressed, we cannot tell whether it is a state marker or a trait marker. The depressive pseudodementia group showed decreased CBF in the temporo-parietal region, similar to that of the DAT group and different from that of the depression group."}
{"id": "12092784", "title": "Cerebral perfusion deficits in age-associated memory impairment. The role of tobacco smoking.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion deficits in age-associated memory impairment. The role of tobacco smoking. Several studies report a high prevalence of memory complaints in the elderly, non-demented population. Since the pathogenesis and diversity of memory impairment in healthy people is still an unresolved issue, we designed our study to ascertain the occurrence of brain abnormalities in Age-Associated Memory Impairment (AAMI) by measuring regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Fifty-three subjects were invited to the case-control study: 26 subjects who fulfilled the AAMI criteria, and 27 controls (age, mean+/-SD 65.8+/-7.3 vs 65.5+/-6.7). rCBF was determined using 99mTC-ECD SPECT by relative measurements made in the cortical and white matter regions and in the thalamus. The AAMI group vs controls had restricted rCBF in the temporal lobe of the left hemisphere (median; 85.8 vs 87.8, p=0.04), in the thalamus (median; 87.3 vs 89.8, p=0.036) and the frontal white matter (median; right hemisphere 80.0 vs 84.1, p=0.01; left hemisphere 77.7 vs 81.6, p=0.04). AAMI subjects who previously smoked had lower rCBF values in the temporal, parietal, occipital and frontal lobes bilaterally, and poorer memory test results than ex-smoker controls. By contrast, rCBF did not differ between non-smoking AAMI subjects and controls. Compared to controls, AAMI subjects had restricted rCBF, A history of previous smoking could partly contribute to the rCBF differences between these groups. Further studies on failing memory and rCBF in representative cohorts of smoking and non-smoking populations are now needed."}
{"id": "12092408", "title": "[Imaging diagnosis of dementia. Nuclear medicine].", "content": "[Imaging diagnosis of dementia. Nuclear medicine]."}
{"id": "12088699", "title": "A new EEG method for estimating cortical neuronal impairment that is sensitive to early stage Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A new EEG method for estimating cortical neuronal impairment that is sensitive to early stage Alzheimer's disease. To test the hypothesis that elecetroencephalographic (EEG) analysis is sensitive to cortical neuronal impairment in early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD), and that this analysis correlates with corresponding changes in cerebral blood flow. We examined an EEG measure of neuronal impairment in the cerebral cortex in terms of its ability to detect very mild AD. This measure, the mean value of the resting state EEG alpha dipolarity (D(alpha)), approaches unity without cortical sulcal lesions, whereas brains with randomly distributed cortical sulcal lesions lower D(alpha) values well below unity. D(alpha) was evaluated in 25 patients with very mild AD, 33 patients with moderately severe AD, and 56 normal age-matched subjects. These subjects also received SPECT, and strong correlation between D(alpha) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was observed. D(alpha) values greater than 0.977 correctly classified normal subjects, but also included 10% of very mild AD. D(alpha) values less than 0.952 correctly classified very mild AD as well as moderately severe AD, but also included 10% of normal subjects. D(alpha) values also correlated positively with bilateral temporal-parietal rCBF (a characteristic finding in AD patients); both declined with increasing dementia severity. Analysis of D(alpha) in this sample supports the hypothesis that early stages of AD can be discriminated from normal aging using measures of cortical neuronal impairment. Furthermore, dementia severity, as reflected by the degree of impairment, is reflected in declining D(alpha) values and increasing variance (greater spread of the D(alpha) values)."}
{"id": "12088698", "title": "EEG harmonic responses to photic stimulation in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease: differences in interhemispheric coherence.", "content": "EEG harmonic responses to photic stimulation in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease: differences in interhemispheric coherence. The distinction between electroencephalogram (EEG) driving responses in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is unclear. This study was conducted to explore the structure of harmonic responses of EEG coherence during photic stimulation (PS) in AD. EEG interhemispheric coherence was analyzed for each harmonic responses during PS (white flickers at 5, 10 and 15 flashes/sec) in younger subjects (20-25 years), non-demented elderly subjects (50-67 years) and AD patients (43-66 years). The elderly subjects had higher interhemispheric coherence during PS than the younger subjects, with significant differences found in the 6th (30Hz) and 8th (40Hz) harmonic responses to 5Hz PS. The AD patients had significantly smaller coherence than the elderly subjects in the 2nd (10Hz) and 4th (20Hz) harmonic responses to 5Hz PS, and in the fundamental (10Hz) and 2nd (20Hz) harmonic responses to 10Hz PS. These coherence values did not correlate with duration of the disease or with cognitive functioning as evaluated by MMSE score. A failure of stimulation-related brain activation in AD patients was observed in alpha-related frequencies, suggesting that AD is not the end result of normal aging of the brain, at least in terms of the mechanisms which are involved in PS-related functional organization."}
{"id": "12080523", "title": "[Frontal lobe dementia of vascular aetiology. A case report].", "content": "[Frontal lobe dementia of vascular aetiology. A case report]."}
{"id": "12080488", "title": "[Dementia with frontal lobe atrophy: clinical study from 18 patients with cognitive impairment and frontal lobe involvement detected by structural and functional neuroimaging].", "content": "[Dementia with frontal lobe atrophy: clinical study from 18 patients with cognitive impairment and frontal lobe involvement detected by structural and functional neuroimaging]. To characterize clinically patients with cognitive impairment and frontal lobe degeneration at neuroimaging. Patients diagnosed of dementia or mild neurocognitive impairment by DSM IV criteria and neuropsychological tests with frontal lobe atrophy and hipoperfusion detected by computed tomography and single photon emission computed tomography. 18 patients, 5:1 on behalf of women; mean age at onset, 74 years; hereditary for dementia, 38%; mean duration of illness at first testing, 2 years; the most common initial symptoms, memory loss. At initial examination, psychotic or behavioral impairment was found in 61% and parkinsonism in 38%, the commonest cognitive troubles at this moment was the executive function, language and anterograde memory dysfunctions at the same rate. Frontal lobe atrophy and hypoperfusion was found in 100%, temporal in 88% and parietal in 38%. Electroencephalogram was pathological in 33%. The course of the disease was progressive but with fluctuation in 27%. Frontotemporal dementia clinical criteria in 13 patients, 4 of them clinical criteria of dementia with Lewy bodies too, and clinical criteria of Alzheimer s disease in 5."}
{"id": "12056929", "title": "Association between the extended tau haplotype and frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Association between the extended tau haplotype and frontotemporal dementia. Recent studies have shown an association between an extended tau haplotype (H1) that covers the entire human tau gene and progressive supranuclear palsy or, more inconsistently, other neurodegenerative disorders, such as corticobasal degeneration, Parkinson disease, Alzheimer disease, and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). In addition, disease-causing mutations in the tau gene on chromosome 17 have been detected in some families with autosomal dominant FTD and parkinsonism. In FTD, the pathological accumulation of the microtubule-associated protein tau suggests that the tau gene may be a genetic risk factor for this disorder. To confirm or refute the association between the H1 haplotype or the H1H1 genotype of the tau gene and FTD. Case-control study. Neurology departments of 12 French university hospitals. One hundred unrelated patients with FTD and 79 controls. Tau genotype (contiguous polymorphisms in exons 1, 7, and 13 and in intron 9 used to reconstruct the extended haplotypes H1 and H2). Clinical examination, psychometric testing, laboratory tests, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography, and electroencephalography for patients with FTD. The H1H1 genotype was significantly overrepresented in patients with FTD compared with controls (62% vs 46%; P=.01, 1-sided; odds ratio adjusted for age and sex, 1.95). After stratification according to apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, we found a significant interaction between APOE and tau genotypes (P=.03). This study of the largest series of patients with FTD confirms the primary role of tau in FTD and establishes that the H1 haplotype of the tau gene and the E2 allele of APOE interact by an unknown mechanism that increases the risk of FTD."}
{"id": "12053130", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy: clinical characteristics and differences compared to Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy: clinical characteristics and differences compared to Alzheimer's disease. Predominant and progressive complex visual disorders are often due to posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), a rare early-onset dementing syndrome presenting with visual complaints. In clinicopathological studies, PCA is most commonly considered a form of Alzheimer's disease (AD); no prior study has evaluated clinical differences between PCA and AD. This study identified 15 patients who presented with progressive complex visual disorders and predominant occipitoparietal hypoperfusion on SPECT. These patients were retrospectively compared on clinical variables with 30 patients with clinically probable AD matched for gender, age and duration of illness. The PCA patients presented with alexia, elements of Balint's syndrome, apperceptive visual agnosia, dressing apraxia and environmental disorientation along with elements of Gerstmann's syndrome. Compared to the AD patients, the 15 PCA patients (mean age of onset 58 years, range 51-64) had significantly better verbal fluency, less memory difficulty, more depression and greater insight into their illness but similar familial and apolipoprotein E risk factors. In the PCA patients, MRI often showed occipitoparietal atrophy without detectable mesiotemporal atrophy. PCA is a distinct clinical syndrome and not just AD with prominent visual deficits. Compared to AD controls, PCA patients have better language and memory but more insight and depression and more posterior atrophy on MRI. These results indicate clinical criteria for the diagnosis of PCA and recommend specific interventions such as visual aids and antidepressant medications. Similar risk factors and course suggest that PCA is most commonly an early-onset posteriorly shifted AD variant."}
{"id": "12043417", "title": "[Progressive aphasia. New data on an old phenomenon].", "content": "[Progressive aphasia. New data on an old phenomenon]. Progressive aphasias are distinct but infrequently recognized clinical expressions of non-Alzheimer lobar atrophy. We review and illustrate two such syndromes--semantic dementia (SD) and progressive nonfluent aphasia (PA). SD involves loss of conceptual structure due to bilateral infratemporal atrophy. PA is a phonetic-syntactic disorder resulting from left perisylvian atrophy. Early research on Pick disease--originally defined as circumscribed cerebrocortical atrophy--highlighted left temporal lobe atrophy and aphasia. For this reason (among others), Pick disease or Pick complex is still a useful and convenient label for progressive aphasias and other clinical manifestations of non-AD lobar atrophy."}
{"id": "12034784", "title": "Striatal dopamine transporter and extrapyramidal symptoms in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Striatal dopamine transporter and extrapyramidal symptoms in frontotemporal dementia. To evaluate dopaminergic function in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Patients with FTD not only show typical behavioral and cognitive deficits but extrapyramidal symptoms, most commonly rigidity and akinesia. The pathophysiologic basis of these symptoms is unclear. The authors investigated 12 patients (mean age = 67.2 +/- 7.2 years, range = 52 to 76 years) with FTD using a cocaine analogue [11C]CFT as a ligand with PET. The results were compared with those of 15 healthy control subjects (mean age = 49.7 years, range = 23 to 70 years) using analysis of covariance to adjust for difference in age. A dynamic 80-minute study was performed, and (region - cerebellum)/cerebellum ratios were calculated for the caudate nucleus and putamen. The severity of extrapyramidal symptoms was evaluated by the motor part of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). The mean age-adjusted [11C]CFT uptake value in the putamen in patients with FTD was reduced to 82% of the control value (p = 0.017), with the corresponding figure for caudate [11C]CFT uptake being 86% (p = 0.007). The motor UPDRS scores of patients with FTD showed a negative correlation with [11C]CFT uptake in both the putamen (r = -0.76, p = 0.004) and caudate nucleus (r = -0.70, p = 0.01). Nigrostriatal dopaminergic function is impaired in FTD, with the projections to the putamen and caudate nucleus being affected to the same degree. The reduction in the binding of the dopamine transporter ligand [11C]CFT is related to the severity of extrapyramidal symptoms of the patients."}
{"id": "12013926", "title": "[Dementia].", "content": "[Dementia]."}
{"id": "11998736", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging techniques in the investigation of dementia].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging techniques in the investigation of dementia]. Neuroimaging can provide valuable information in the diagnostic work-up of patients presenting with suspected dementia. Based on our experience from a memory clinic at Ullev\u00e5l University Hospital in Oslo, Norway and on relevant literature identified on Medline, we give an overview of the use of neuroimaging methods in patients with suspected dementia. CT of the brain should be offered to all patients with suspected dementia as CT can provide essential diagnostic information regarding focal cerebral pathology (tumour, haemorrhage, normal pressure hydrocephalus). A CT scan is of no value in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease as age-related atrophy may be a confounding factor. CT is necessary to reveal infarcts when vascular dementia is suspected, but lacks sensitivity in the detection of diffuse cerebrovascular disease. MRI is recommended in younger patients and may be used to diagnose subcortical lesions, e.g. leukoariosis. The accuracy of SPECT in the assessment of patients with cognitive impairment is not yet established though it seems to be a promising method for the detection of frontotemporal dementia. Functional MR may play a role in the work-up of dementia in the future."}
{"id": "11976799", "title": "A comparison of (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPET changes in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease using statistical parametric mapping.", "content": "A comparison of (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPET changes in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease using statistical parametric mapping. Differences in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) between subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and healthy volunteers were investigated using statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). Forty-eight AD, 23 DLB and 20 age-matched control subjects participated. Technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) brain single-photon emission tomography (SPET) scans were acquired for each subject using a single-headed rotating gamma camera (IGE CamStar XR/T). The SPET images were spatially normalised and group comparison was performed by SPM99. In addition, covariate analysis was undertaken on the standardised images taking the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores as a variable. Applying a height threshold of P < or = 0.001 uncorrected, significant perfusion deficits in the parietal and frontal regions of the brain were observed in both AD and DLB groups compared with the control subjects. In addition, significant temporoparietal perfusion deficits were identified in the AD subjects, whereas the DLB patients had deficits in the occipital region. Comparison of dementia groups (height threshold of P < or = 0.01 uncorrected) yielded hypoperfusion in both the parietal [Brodmann area (BA) 7] and occipital (BA 17, 18) regions of the brain in DLB compared with AD. Abnormalities in these areas, which included visual cortex and several areas involved in higher visual processing and visuospatial function, may be important in understanding the visual hallucinations and visuospatial deficits which are characteristic of DLB. Covariate analysis indicated group differences between AD and DLB in terms of a positive correlation between cognitive test score and temporoparietal blood flow. In conclusion, we found evidence of frontal and parietal hypoperfusion in both AD and DLB, while temporal perfusion deficits were observed exclusively in AD and parieto-occipital deficits in DLB."}
{"id": "11971046", "title": "Qualitative performance characteristics differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Qualitative performance characteristics differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease. To determine whether dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be differentiated on the basis of qualitative performance characteristics during neuropsychological evaluation. Forty one patients with clinically defined DLB were matched with 26 patients with AD for age, illness duration, nature and severity of cognitive deficits, and regional blood flow distribution on SPECT. The presence or absence of a set of qualitative performance characteristics, observed and recorded during the patients' initial cognitive evaluation, was identified by retrospective analysis of patients' records and the groups compared. Inattention, visual distractibility, impairments in establishing and shifting mental set, incoherence, confabulatory responses, perseveration, and intrusions were significantly more common in DLB than AD. Intrusions were particularly common in DLB, occurring in 78% of the group. They included externally cued intrusions arising from the visual environment, a feature never seen in AD. In a stepwise logistic regression analysis impaired mental set shifting, perseveration, and the presence of intrusions correctly classified 79% of patients. It is possible to differentiate DLB and AD on the basis of qualitative features of performance. As many features are amenable to detection at clinical interview, they ought to contribute to clinicians' diagnostic armoury, leading to improved clinical recognition of DLB."}
{"id": "11939938", "title": "Diagnostic patterns of regional atrophy on MRI and regional cerebral blood flow change on SPECT in young onset patients with Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and vascular dementia.", "content": "Diagnostic patterns of regional atrophy on MRI and regional cerebral blood flow change on SPECT in young onset patients with Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and vascular dementia. Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are the three most common causes of young onset dementias. Most neuroimaging studies of these disorders have involved comparisons with normal controls. The aims of this study were to examine the clinical diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) (in combination and in isolation) in the differentiation of one form of dementia from another from amongst a group of AD, FTD and VaD. T1 weighted MRI images and 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT images were obtained from consecutive patients with FTD (n=21), AD (n=23) and VaD (n=20) and rated visually by experienced neuroradiologists and nuclear medicine physicians. Asymmetrical atrophy was seen only in FTD. Frontotemporal dementia patients were the most atrophic whereas severe atrophy was rarely observed in VaD. Severe frontal atrophy (unilaterally or bilaterally) and/or asymmetrical atrophy on MRI is highly diagnostic (sensitivity 0.71, specificity 0.93, LR 10.24) of FTD from within a group of FTD and non-FTD (AD, VaD) patients. Mild or severe parietal atrophy with severe reduction in parietal regional cerebral blood flow on SPECT is diagnostic (sensitivity 0.71, specificity 0.76, LR 3.02) of AD from within a group of AD and non-AD (VaD, FTD) patients. Anatomical (MRI) and functional (SPECT) imaging provide different information and a combination of these modalities improves diagnostic specificity."}
{"id": "11929581", "title": "A case of diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification.", "content": "A case of diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification. We report a 79-year-old female with atypical senile dementia with Fahr-type calcification. The patient started to show memory disturbance at the age of 75 years, followed by visual hallucination, stereotypy, personality changes such as irritability, aggression and disinhibition. Brain computed tomography (CT) demonstrated bilateral and symmetric calcification of the basal ganglia and thalamus. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed diffuse cortical atrophy pronounced in the fronto-temporal areas. On MRI T1-weighted images the calcified areas showed a mixture of low- and high-intensity signals. Based on the overlapping clinical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease, together with the brain CT and MRI findings, we clinically diagnosed the patient as having 'diffuse neurofibrillary tangles with calcification' (DNTC). The characteristics of psychiatric symptoms and neuroradiological findings in DNTC are discussed."}
{"id": "11929568", "title": "Relationship between clock drawing test performance and regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease: a single photon emission computed tomography study.", "content": "Relationship between clock drawing test performance and regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease: a single photon emission computed tomography study. The clock drawing test (CDT) is a useful tool for screening cognitive impairment. Previous neuropsychological studies have revealed that CDT performance requires several cognitive functions including semantic memory, visuospatial function and executive function. However, the neural substrates involved remain to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to identify the brain regions responsible for CDT performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Twenty-six patients satisfying the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disease and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria for probable AD underwent the CDT and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), together with a N-isopropyl-p-[123I] iodoamphetamine (IMP) single photon emission computed tomography measurements of the resting regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). The CDT score correlated significantly with the MMSE score (r=0.582; P < 0.05). Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that the MMSE score and the left posterior temporal rCBF were major predictors of CDT score. These findings suggest that the CDT score may reflect the severity of dementia, and that it has a close relationship with the left posterior temporal function. Our findings provide the first functional neuroimaging evidence for the neural substrates involved in CDT performance."}
{"id": "11925777", "title": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies]. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most frequent neuropathologically diagnosed degenerative dementing illness. The clinical characteristics are progressive dementia, Parkinson syndrome, fluctuations of cognitive functions, vigilance and attention, visual hallucinations (usually detailed and well described), depression, REM-sleep behavior disorder, adverse responses to standard doses of neuroleptics, falls, syncopes, systematized delusions, and non-visual hallucinations. Mean age at disease onset ranges between 60 and 68 years. Male persons are more frequently affected than female. Disease duration is six to seven years. The differential diagnoses of DLB are dementia of the Alzheimer-type, Parkinson's disease, subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and, in rare cases, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The genetic background of the disease is unclear. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission tomography can contribute to the diagnosis. The disease is treated with L-dopa, atypical neuroleptics, acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, antihypotensive agents, and peripheral anticholinergic and alpha-receptor-blocking medicaments to improve neurogenic bladder dysfunction."}
{"id": "11922212", "title": "A case of general paresis showing marked treatment-associated improvement of cerebellar blood flow by quantitative imaging analysis.", "content": "A case of general paresis showing marked treatment-associated improvement of cerebellar blood flow by quantitative imaging analysis. We describe a patient with general paresis who developed progressive dementia and a cerebellar syndrome including wide-based gait, slurred speech, and intention tremor. Quantitative analysis by means of a Patlak plot of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer showed generally low blood flow in the cerebrum and the cerebellum. After antisyphilitic therapy, blood flow in the brain, especially in the cerebellum, improved noticeably, as did the cognitive disorder and the cerebellar syndrome."}
{"id": "11870015", "title": "Combined Analysis of CSF Tau Levels and [(123)I]Iodoamphetamine SPECT in Mild Cognitive Impairment: Implications for a Novel Predictor of Alzheimer's Disease.", "content": "Combined Analysis of CSF Tau Levels and [(123)I]Iodoamphetamine SPECT in Mild Cognitive Impairment: Implications for a Novel Predictor of Alzheimer's Disease. The aim of this study was to establish an objective and reliable index to predict the development of Alzheimer's disease in a large pool of elderly patients with mild cognitive impairment. Twenty-three patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, 22 patients with mild cognitive impairment who eventually developed Alzheimer's disease, eight patients with mild cognitive impairment who did not develop dementia, and 19 cognitively normal subjects were included in the study. The authors constructed a new diagnostic index, the CSF-CBF index, based on CSF tau levels divided by regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the posterior cingulate cortex. Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that applying a cutoff value for the CSF-CBF index of 296.0 achieved a sensitivity of 88.5% and a specificity of 90.0% in discriminating mild cognitive impairment that progressed to Alzheimer's disease from mild cognitive impairment that did not progress to Alzheimer's disease. The CSF-CBF index is useful in predicting Alzheimer's disease in subjects with mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "11844889", "title": "Corticobasal degeneration and frontotemporal dementia presentations in a kindred with nonspecific histopathology.", "content": "Corticobasal degeneration and frontotemporal dementia presentations in a kindred with nonspecific histopathology. We report the clinical, neuropsychological, electroencephalographic and radiologic findings in a kindred with varying clinical presentations of a neurodegenerative disorder. Postmortem examination of one member with clinically suspected corticobasal degeneration (CBD) revealed nonspecific histopathology maximally involving the frontoparietal cortex with negligible degenerative changes in the basal ganglia and substantia nigra. The findings in this and other kindreds demonstrate that (1) similar findings on ancillary testing can occur in relatives presumably suffering from the same pathophysiologic process despite dissimilar clinical presentations, (2) the 'CBD syndrome' is not specific for CBD, (3) extrapyramidal dysfunction can exist in the absence of appreciable basal ganglia and nigral degeneration, (4) nonspecific histopathology can underlie familial focal/asymmetric cortical degeneration syndromes and (5) many of the findings in CBD are comparable to those reported in frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "11801698", "title": "Direct comparison of spatially normalized PET and SPECT scans in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Direct comparison of spatially normalized PET and SPECT scans in Alzheimer's disease. Hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) SPECT and 18F-FDG PET depict similar aspects of perfusion and metabolic abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the correspondence between them is not known in detail. We therefore used statistical parametric mapping to detect and compare abnormal brain areas objectively and quantitatively. Twenty-six patients with probable AD (mean age +/- SD, 66 +/- 9 y; mean Mini-Mental State Examination score, 22.5 +/- 4.2) and 6 nondemented healthy volunteers (mean age, 63 +/- 11 y) were studied with HMPAO SPECT and 18F-FDG PET. All images underwent the same processing steps, including 12-mm gaussian smoothing, spatial normalization, and z transformation with respect to normal average and SD. Thresholding of z maps was used to detect abnormal voxels. The overall correlation between PET and SPECT across the entire brain was significant but not close (average r = 0.43). The best correspondence was found in the temporoparietal and posterior cingulate association cortices. There, the number of abnormal voxels for PET correlated strongly with the number for SPECT (r = 0.90 at a z threshold of -2.25), but tracer uptake reductions were significantly more pronounced for PET than for SPECT. Discordant findings were most frequently seen in the temporobasal and orbitofrontal areas (PET low, SPECT high) and in the cerebellum, parahippocampal cortex, and midcingulate cortex (PET high, SPECT low). The correlation between dementia severity and the number of abnormal voxels was closer for PET than for SPECT. Separation of patients from healthy volunteers by counting the number of abnormal voxels was possible over a much wider range of z thresholds with PET than with SPECT. Correspondence between 18F-FDG PET and HMPAO SPECT is limited to the main finding of temporoparietal and posterior cingulate functional impairment in mild to moderate AD. The distinction between healthy volunteers and patients is less sensitive to threshold selection with PET than with SPECT, and findings in the frontal, temporobasal, and temporomesial cortices and in the cerebellum may differ between the 2 techniques."}
{"id": "11786735", "title": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer brain SPECT perfusion imaging in ictal nonepileptic visual hallucinations.", "content": "Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer brain SPECT perfusion imaging in ictal nonepileptic visual hallucinations. Visual hallucinations can occur within the central nervous system and may be associated with a lesion anywhere in the visual pathway. The purpose of this study was to assess \"ictal\" regional cerebral blood flow with Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer (ECD) SPECT in patients having acute hallucinations, and to compare the findings to the \"interictal\" state. A prospective study was performed to evaluate patients admitted to the neurology department with nonpsychiatric and nonepileptic visual hallucinations. The nine patients included in the study underwent thorough neurologic and psychiatric evaluations. A computed tomographic (CT) scan was performed when each patient was admitted, and electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings were made during their hallucinations. All patients underwent a brain SPECT while having acute hallucinations (ictal SPECT), and a follow-up scan was obtained 2 to 3 weeks later. All patients had normal ictal EEG findings during the hallucinations. Seven of nine patients had increased perfusion on the SPECT studies in one or more regions, with a mean lesion-to-contralateral ratio of 2.1 (range, 1.5 to 2.7). Three of the seven patients had findings consistent with a cerebrovascular accident. After treatment, the hallucinations disappeared in two patients and the motor deficit improved dramatically. The follow-up SPECT study showed significant improvement in all patients 1 week later. Charles Bonnet syndrome, frontal lobe dementia, and Anton syndrome were diagnosed in three other patients, and the last one had no identifiable background disease, all with normal findings of EEG, CT, and magnetic resonance examinations. They all responded readily to carbamazepine therapy, and the follow-up SPECT study showed resolution of the findings. Two of nine patients showed posterior cortical hypoperfusion, and eventually Lewy body disease was diagnosed. The SPECT showed no evidence of regional hyperperfusion. This prospective preliminary study suggests that brain imaging using SPECT may be useful in identifying the mechanisms and evolution of blood flow abnormalities in certain subgroups of patients who have visual hallucinations and may assist in the selection of specific therapy."}
{"id": "11748433", "title": "Single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) in detecting neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease.", "content": "Single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) in detecting neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease. Single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) studies were performed on 34 manifest Huntington's disease (HD) patients at various stages of clinical pathology ranging from early chorea to late dystonia with or without signs of dementia and 12 pre-symptomatic patients with abnormal terminal CAG expansions. Thirty HD patients with obvious clinical signs and seven pre-symptomatic patients without signs or symptoms of HD displayed selective caudate hypoperfusion by direct visual inspection. Such qualitative, selective striatal hypoperfusion patterns can be indicative of early and persistent metabolic changes in striatal neuropathology. SPECT studies can be useful in documenting early pre-clinical changes in patients with abnormal terminal CAG expansions and in confirming the presence of caudate pathology in patients with clinical signs of HD."}
{"id": "11968741", "title": "[Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using brain SPECT with three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections].", "content": "[Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease using brain SPECT with three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections]. We compared the diagnostic usefulness of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) with that of standard transaxial images in brain SPECT in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The subjects consisted of 69 patients with AD and 60 patients with non-AD, including vascular dementia, Parkinson's disease with dementia, frontotemporal dementia, other dementing diseases and neuropsychiatric diseases. Standard transaxial section and 3D-SSP SPECT images with N-isopropyl-p-[123I] iodoamphetamine were blindly interpreted by three examiners and were classified into the following three patterns: typical AD, atypical AD, and not indicative AD patterns. The 3D-SSP images demonstrated reductions of cerebral blood flow in the parieto-temporal association cortex and posterior cingulate gyrus more clearly and easily than the standard transaxial images. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity were 93% and 85% with 3D-SSP and 83% and 82% with standard transaxial section respectively. 3D-SSP was especially useful for early or atypical AD which showed no characteristic perfusion abnormalities on standard transaxial images. These results suggest that SPECT with 3D-SSP provides an sensitive as well as accurate tool for the diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "11903098", "title": "Machado-Joseph disease with retinal degeneration and dementia.", "content": "Machado-Joseph disease with retinal degeneration and dementia. To clarify the phenotypic varieties in Machado-Joseph disease (MJD). We studied a 64-year-old man with ataxia, retinal degeneration and dementia neurologically, ophthalmologically and genetically. The patient noted dysesthesia of his hands at age 57 and later had memory disturbance. He had gait disturbance and needed a wheelchair at age 64. His total IQ was 61 on the WAIS-R. He had loss of central vision, ophthalmoplegia, hearing impairment, dysarthria, truncal and limb ataxia, sensory disturbance, and mild weakness of the extremities. Electrophysiologically he was suspected to have polyneuropathy. Brain MRI showed marked atrophy of the cerebellum and pons with mild cerebral atrophy. Ophthalmologic evaluation revealed multiple chorioretinal atrophy. Expanded CAG repeat numbers in MJD1 were 64. These findings indicate that the clinical features of MJD might cover a wider spectrum than previously expected, though it is possible that these complications, namely retinal degeneration and dementia, were incidental findings in this patient."}
{"id": "11889831", "title": "[An autopsy case of dementia with motor neuron disease accompanying Alzheimer's disease lesion].", "content": "[An autopsy case of dementia with motor neuron disease accompanying Alzheimer's disease lesion]. We report the case of a 60-year-old man with autopsy-proven dementia with motor neuron disease (D-MND) and Alzheimer's disease lesion. The patient presented with clumsiness of his right hand at the age of 55 years old and subsequently developed dysarthria, weakness and atrophy of his upper limbs. He was unaffectionate towards his family, repeated the same phrase, and showed severe disorientation of time and place. Neurological examination on admission showed not only diffuse lower motor neuron signs, such as weakness, atrophy, fasciculation and areflexia in both upper limbs, but also dementia (HDS-R 9/30). He died of respiratory insufficiency. Neuropathological examination showed mild atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes and anterior spinal roots. Microscopic examination of cortical sections revealed degenerative changes with simple atrophy and gliosis, and these changes were predominant in layers 1 and 2 of the frontal and temporal cortices. Using immunohistochemical staining, ubiquitin-positive but tau-negative inclusions were frequently found in neurons of the hippocampal granular cell layers and temporal lobes. Many senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were present in all sections of the brain. Our final diagnosis was dementia with motor neuron disease accompanying Alzheimer's disease lesion, because of hypoperfusion in the parietal lobe as well as the frontal lobe demonstrated by SPECT, and the presence of many senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the cerebral cortex. Overlapping of pathologically-proven D-MND and Alzheimer's disease lesion is extremely rare, and this case may improve our understanding of the process of neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "11808350", "title": "[A patient with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who showed improvement of dementia and parkinsonism by the administratim of donepezil].", "content": "[A patient with probable dementia with Lewy bodies, who showed improvement of dementia and parkinsonism by the administratim of donepezil]. We present a 73-year-old man with probable dementia with Lewy bodies(DLB). At 65 years of age, he gradually developed bradykinesia, gait disturbance and mild amnesia. At 71 years of age, he noted resting tremor in bilateral hands, and amnesia and disorientation were exacerbated. He was diagnosed as having parkinsonism and took L-dopa/carbidopa at 100 mg/day. Since he developed hallucination and abnormal behavior 2 days after the initiation of the drug, he stopped taking L-dopa and was admitted to our hospital. A neurological examination on admission revealed moderate amnesia, disorientation, finger agnosia, constitutional apraxia, mask-like face, cogwheel rigidity, resting tremor in bilateral hands, and bradykinesia. Brain MRI showed mild brain atrophy, and single photon emission computerized tomography(SPECT) showed diffuse moderate hypoperfusion in bilateral cerebral cortex. As he had fluctuating cognitive dysfunction and parkinsonism, he was diagnosed to have probable DLB. As his dementia was exacerbated by trihexyphenidyl, an anti-cholinergic agent, at 2 mg/day, we treated him with donepezil, an anti-choline esterase agent, at 3-5 mg/day. His parkinsonism, including rigidity and bradykinesia, was markedly improved his dementia, consisting of amnesia and disorientation. Electroencephalography (EEG) improved in the organization of the dominant rhythm. The SPECT improved in the blood perfusion of the bilateral frontal lobe as well as cognitive function and parkinsonism were maintained by donepezil for 6 months after discharge. A therapeutic efficacy of donepezil for DLB has recently been reported. It is notable that donepezil was beneficial not only for cognitive dysfunction but also for parkinsonism in the present case with probable DLB."}
{"id": "11780155", "title": "[Dementia: clinic and diagnosis].", "content": "[Dementia: clinic and diagnosis]. Decline of the cognitive functions necessary for activities of daily living results in a spectrum ranging from benign forgetfulness and minimal cognitive impairment to dementia. The latter is characterized by personality and behavioral changes. Alzheimer's disease is the most frequent cause of dementia affecting almost one of two people older than 80 years. Lewy body and cerebrovascular disease are also frequent causes of cognitive decline. Recent studies have revealed genetic aspects of Alzheimer's disease and the role of certain enzymes in the pathophysiology of fibrillary amyloid deposition. The aim in cognitive disease is an early diagnosis to initiate therapy and adapting measures in the patient's daily routines. The diagnosis is basically clinical with neuroimaging and neuropsychological tests' support. The EEG, SPECT, LP and other studies are only useful in a few specific scenarios. At present, a few promising therapies are being evaluated. Family support is of vital importance."}
{"id": "11748785", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: diagnosis and management. To summarize the clinical, pathological, imaging and treatment aspects of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Review of literature (MEDLINE). DLB is the second most common form of degenerative dementia, accounting for up to 20% of cases in the elderly. It is characterized by fluctuating cognitive impairment, spontaneous parkinsonism and recurrent visual hallucinations. Consensus clinical criteria have been published and have been shown to have high specificity, but they may still lack sensitivity. Pathologically, DLB may be classified as a Lewy body (LB) disorder and/or as an alpha-synucleinopathy. It is probable that a spectrum of LB disorders exists with the clinical features reflecting the distribution and severity of pathology. Although both DLB and Alzheimer's disease (AD) show a reduction in pre-synaptic cholinergic transmission from the basal forebrain, in DLB there are also deficits in cholinergic transmission from brain stem nuclei. Post-synaptic cortical muscarinic receptors are more functionally intact in DLB suggesting potential responsiveness to cholinergic enhancement. Neuroimaging findings indicate a relative preservation of medial temporal lobe structures in DLB but similar distribution of white matter changes on MRI compared with AD. Defects in nigrostriatal dopamine pathways in DLB have been demonstrated with functional neuroimaging using ligands highlighting pre- and post-synaptic dopaminergic systems. Preliminary studies also indicate subtle differences in perfusion patterns on SPECT with a greater degree of occipital hypoperfusion in DLB compared with AD. Accurate diagnosis of DLB is clinically important as the management of psychosis and behavioural disturbances is complicated by sensitivity to neuroleptic medication. There is accumulating evidence to suggest that DLB may be particularly amenable to cholinergic enhancers. The clinical management of DLB is considered using a four step approach: making a diagnosis; identification of problem symptoms; appropriate non-pharmacological interventions; and pharmacological interventions. Consensus criteria for probable DLB have high specificity-a positive clinical diagnosis is likely to be correct. Treatment choices must consider effects upon motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. Non-pharmacological management is an essential first step, as is reduction or withdrawal of drugs with potential adverse effects. Neuroleptic sensitivity reactions appear less likely to occur with the newer atypical antipsychotics. Cholinesterase inhibitors have been shown in open-label studies and one placebo RCT to be well tolerated and effective in treating cognitive and psychiatric symptoms in DLB. They may become first-line treatments."}
{"id": "11715838", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: scintigraphic appearance of Tc-99m HMPAO brain spect.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: scintigraphic appearance of Tc-99m HMPAO brain spect. To investigate the value of Tc-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (Tc-99m HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) as a diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease. Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT was performed on 140 patients and 20 controls. A final diagnosis was established for 115 patients, 58 of whom had Alzheimer's disease. The probability of AD was determined for seven scintigraphic patterns. The probability of Alzheimer's disease was 14% for patients with memory loss and normal perfusion. For patients with abnormal perfusion patterns, the probability of Alzheimer's disease was 87% with bilateral temporoparietal defects, 73% with bilateral temporoparietal defects plus additional defects, 62% with a unilateral temporoparietal defect, 33% with a frontal defect only, 0% with other large defects, and 0% with multiple small cortical defects. In 115 patients with the complaint of memory loss or cognitive abnormalities, bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion with or without additional hypoperfusion was more frequent than other scintigraphic patterns in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT offers the clinician the possibility of differentiating dementias on the basis of differences in perfusion patterns."}
{"id": "11685496", "title": "Striatal dopamine transporter function in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Striatal dopamine transporter function in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study was to compare parkinsonian features and loss of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) function in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease (PD), matched for age and disease duration. Twenty patients with DLB. 24 PD patients and 10 matched controls were examined with SPET using a dual-head camera and the dopamine-transporter ligand 123I-beta-CIT (148 MBq). Moreover, in a subgroup of patients (16 DLB and 20 PD patients), subscores of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-motor examination (ME) subscale were obtained during \"practical off\", i.e. 12 h following withdrawal of antiparkinsonian therapy. Compared with controls, striatal/cerebellar (S/C) ratios of DAT binding were significantly reduced in both DLB and PD, deficits being more marked in DLB patients (controls 7.2 +/- 1.2, DLB 3.3 +/- 1, PD 4.2 +/- 1.4; means +/- SD). The side-to-side differences in the S/C ratios were lower in the DLB group and the controls than in PD patients (0.4 +/- 0.4. 0.2 +/- 0.2 and 0.6 +/- 0.3, respectively, P<0.05). The total UPDRS-ME scores during practical-off were significantly higher in the DLB than in the PD group (41.2 +/- 12.7 vs 26.6 +/- 15.3, P<0.01). The side-to-side differences of the summed UPDRS extremity subscores were smaller in the DLB than in the PD group (2.2 +/- 2.3 vs 7.4 +/- 3.9, P<0.0001). Our findings suggest that parkinsonism evolves largely symmetrically and progresses more rapidly with more severe loss of striatal dopamine transporter function in DLB compared to PD. Whether these findings are helpful in the differential diagnosis of DLB and PD needs to be examined in further studies."}
{"id": "11598311", "title": "Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a study in Japan.", "content": "Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a study in Japan. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration is the most common form of cortical dementia occurring in the presenium after Alzheimer's disease. We analyzed two types of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and semantic dementia (SD) selected from a consecutive series of outpatients based on neuropsychological symptoms, psychiatric symptoms and abnormal behavior. In our series of 134 patients with primary degenerative dementia, there were 16 cases of FTD and 6 cases of SD. Patients with subgroups of FTD and patients with SD were distinguishable only by the presence of aphasia in the latter group. They were not distinguishable from one another by other neuropsychological examinations, behavioral abnormalities or psychiatric symptoms assessed with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory."}
{"id": "11598308", "title": "Is there a typical pattern of brain SPECT imaging in Alzheimer's disease?", "content": "Is there a typical pattern of brain SPECT imaging in Alzheimer's disease? The identification of new nosological forms such as Lewy body disease (LBD) requires a re-evaluation of the patterns observed in brain functional imaging in the various forms of dementia. We studied 60 demented patients, divided into three groups and fulfilling the clinical criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD), LBD and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), using Tc-HMPAO and a brain-dedicated SPECT system. After normalisation we applied a cut-off at two levels according to previously established criteria. We reaffirmed the already established data concerning FTD (mainly a bilateral frontal decrease) and for LBD (a severe diffuse decrease in the frontal regions and also in the posterior association cortex). In contrast, the decrease in AD was strictly limited to the parieto-occipital cortex, irrespective of the severity of the cognitive decline. We hypothesise that the major simplification concerning the pattern observed in AD can be explained by the fact that patients suffering from LBD have previously been included in the groups of AD patients."}
{"id": "11594927", "title": "Dementia, amyotrophy, and periodic complexes on the electroencephalogram: a diagnostic challenge.", "content": "Dementia, amyotrophy, and periodic complexes on the electroencephalogram: a diagnostic challenge. The clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases is a challenge to the neurologist. In many cases the diagnosis becomes neuropathological only after the autopsy. Several consensus criteria have been defined for the clinical diagnosis of different neurodegenerative diseases, among them the various types of dementia as well as prion-induced diseases. When compared with neuropathological findings, these criteria have proved to be reasonably accurate for regular practice, research, and epidemiological studies. The problem arises when a combination of complementary and clinical data are obtained that do not easily match these diagnostic criteria. We describe a patient with dementia and periodic complexes on an electroencephalogram, suggesting a diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. When the condition progressed, signs and symptoms of a motoneuron disease appeared. Thus, 2 different diagnoses were proposed: (1) an amyotrophic variant of a prion-induced disease; or (2) an ELA dementia syndrome with periodic complexes on the electroencephalogram, a finding that previously has not been described."}
{"id": "11588638", "title": "[Clinical subtypes of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Clinical subtypes of frontotemporal dementia]. Three distinctive clinical presentations can occur in frontotemporal dementia (FTD): disinhibited, apathetic and stereotypic subtypes. Each one shows a specific pattern of clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging findings, besides manifesting the core features of this form of dementia. We report three clinical cases, each one an example of a subtype of FTD, that were evaluated by neuropsychological and neuroimaging methods. Even the reported cases being a prototype of a specific subgroup, they can share some features with the others subtypes. According to this, patients with predominantly disinhibited or stereotypic behavior can also show apathy, in much the same way as predominantly apathetic or disinhibited patients can manifest stereotypic ritualistic behavior. The final stage of FTD is generally dominated by apathetic behavior."}
{"id": "11588627", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia: analisys of 16 cases.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia: analisys of 16 cases. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is an intriguing syndrome, showing some peculiar aspects that differentiate it from classical aphasic pictures caused by focal cerebral lesions or dementia. The slow and progressive deterioration of language occurring in these cases provides an interesting model to better understand the mechanisms involved in the linguistic process. We describe clinical and neuroimaging aspects found in 16 cases of PPA. Our patients underwent language and neuropsychological evaluation, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). We observed a clear distinction in oral expression patterns; patients were classified as fluent and nonfluent. Anomia was the earliest and most evident symptom in both groups. Neuroimaging pointed to SPECT as a valuable instrument in guiding the differential diagnosis, as well as in making useful clinical and anatomical correlations. This report and a comparison to literature are an attempt to contribute to a better understanding of PPA."}
{"id": "11585855", "title": "Fractal analysis of cerebral blood flow distribution in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Fractal analysis of cerebral blood flow distribution in Alzheimer's disease. This study describes a method for quantifying cerebral blood flow (CBF) distribution in Alzheimer's disease (AD) from SPECT images obtained with (99m)Tc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) by 3-dimensional fractal analysis (3D-FA). HMPAO SPECT was performed on 68 patients with probable AD and 14 healthy control subjects. We delineated the CBF images using 4 cutoff levels (35%, 40%, 45%, and 50% of the maximal voxel radioactivity) and measured the total number of voxels in the areas surrounded by the contours obtained with each cutoff level. We calculated fractal dimensions from the relationship between the total number of voxels and the cutoff levels transformed into natural logarithms. The fractal dimensions (mean +/- SD) for patients with probable AD and healthy subjects were 0.74 +/- 0.33 and 0.52 +/- 0.09, respectively. A significant difference in the fractal dimension was found between groups (P = 0.001). Statistically significant correlations were obtained between the fractal dimension and the Mini-Mental State Examination score (r = -0.598; P < 0.0001) and between the fractal dimension and the AD Assessment Scale (r = 0.670; P < 0.0001). The fractal dimensions for subjects with clinical dementia rates (CDRs) of 0, 1, 2, and 3 were 0.52 +/- 0.09, 0.63 +/- 0.21, 0.77 +/- 0.23 (P < 0.05 vs. the group with a CDR of 1), and 1.43 +/- 0.49 (P < 0.0001 vs. the group with a CDR of 2), respectively. Quantification of CBF distribution on SPECT images in AD was possible using 3D-FA. The fractal dimension was well correlated with the cognitive impairment, as assessed in neuropsychologic tests. 3D-FA may be a useful method for objectively evaluating the progression of AD."}
{"id": "11577423", "title": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration of which movemental disturbances were improved by administration of amantadine].", "content": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration of which movemental disturbances were improved by administration of amantadine]. Corticobasal degeneration(CBD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised clinically by apraxia, cortical sensory loss, alien limb, dementia, oculomotor abnormalities, dysarthria, postural instability, akinesia, rigidity, and pyramidal signs. Brain imaging may demonstrate greater abnormalities contralateral to the more affected side. We reported a case of corticobasal degeneration of which praxic impairments were improved by administration of amantadine. The patient was a 63-year-old right-handed woman. She showed marked dysfunction including rigidity, limb kinetic apraxia, cortical sensory loss, ideomotor apraxia, and dressing apraxia. A brain MRI scan revealed bilateral cortical atrophy centered in the postcentral gyrus, more pronounced in the left hemisphere than the right. A SPECT scan showed a decrease in blood flow in the temporo-parieto-occipital regions, more pronounced in the left hemisphere than the right. An EEG showed a diffuse slowness. L-dopa had no effect on the symptoms of rigidity, limb kinetic apraxia, cortical sensory loss, ideomotor apraxia, and dressing apraxia. By administration of amantadine, rigidity and cortical sensory loss did not improve, but some praxic impairments, such as dressing apraxia and ideomotor apraxia, and the EEG improved. Upon withdrawal of amantadine, the improved symptoms deteriorated. Amitriptyline did not improve the deteriorated symptoms. After amantadine was re-administered, the same praxic impairments and the EEG improved again. This suggested that administration of amantadine had some effect on certain praxic impairments and the EEG."}
{"id": "11559315", "title": "Cognitive deficits associated with a recently reported familial neurodegenerative disease: familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies.", "content": "Cognitive deficits associated with a recently reported familial neurodegenerative disease: familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies. We recently discovered an autosomal dominant disease causing a progressive dementia. The disease is caused by a point mutation in the gene coding for the serine protease inhibitor (ie, serpin) neuroserpin. The mutation results in an unstable neuroserpin protein that readily aggregates into intraneuronal inclusions that we identify as Collins bodies. The bodies are distributed throughout the cerebral hemispheres but are significantly more numerous in the cortex and the substantia nigra. We have named the disease familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies (FENIB). To describe the cognitive and neurophysiological changes exhibited by individuals with FENIB and to correlate the phenotypic expression of the disease with the neuropathological findings. Multiple case studies using neuropsychological assessment, electroencephalography (EEG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) studies of family members were performed. Using these measures, we also compared family members in whom the mutation is present with family members in whom the mutation was absent to control for nonspecific familial factors. Nine individuals (5 women, aged 31-64 years; 4 men, aged 43-67 years) from 2 generations of family members related to the first reliably identified individual with symptoms of this disease. Symptoms, by self-report and reports of other family members, ranged from asymptomatic to severe dementia. Six of the 9 individuals carried the disease mutation. All subjects with the mutation demonstrated some cognitive changes, with the greatest demonstrated by subjects older than 40 years. The changes included restricted attention, concentration, and response regulation functions, reduced controlled oral fluency (word-list generation), and restricted visuospatial organization. In general, recall memory was not as affected as other cognitive domains. The most severely affected subject demonstrated global dementia with prominent frontal lobe features. Findings on SPECT showed anomalies limited to frontal areas in the less affected subjects and more global, patchy areas of hypoperfusion in the more severely affected subjects. The 3 oldest and most affected subjects demonstrated slowing on EEG findings. The MRI findings were noncontributory except in the 2 most severe cases, which showed global cortical atrophy. Cognitive changes in mildly to moderately affected subjects were characterized by deficits in frontal and frontal-subcortical area-dependent processes. Continued progressive deterioration of cerebral functions with relative sparing of recall memory suggests a unique dementia associated with this disease."}
{"id": "11555340", "title": "Relationship between regional cerebral blood flow and verbal fluency in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationship between regional cerebral blood flow and verbal fluency in Alzheimer's disease. Category and letter verbal fluency tests are widely used for dementia detection and severity measure. Performances of these tasks have been regarded to be mainly associated with the left frontal lobe function. However, some recent studies suggest that there are different neuropsychological bases between these two tasks, and the brain region which contributes to these performances still remains unclear in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To clarify the neural basis of verbal fluency in AD, we examined the relationship between performances of these tasks and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Twenty-five AD patients were administered verbal fluency tasks and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans. Thirteen cortical regions of interest were symmetrically defined in each hemisphere. Letter fluency scores were correlated significantly only with the left prefrontal (Brodmann's area (BA) 10-46) regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). In contrast, category fluency scores were correlated most strongly with the left temporal rCBF and also with the left prefrontal (BA 10-46) rCBF. In conclusion, the present study suggests that left prefrontal (BA 10-46) dysfunction contributes to decline in both letter and category fluency scores in AD, while typical posterior dysfunction of AD has a closer relationship with decline in category fluency scores."}
{"id": "11552010", "title": "Neuroanatomy of the self: evidence from patients with frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Neuroanatomy of the self: evidence from patients with frontotemporal dementia. To evaluate the frequency and types of change in \"self\" seen in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and to determine the relative involvement of the nondominant and dominant frontal and temporal brain regions in FTD patients with or without changes in a sense of self using neuropsychology tests and neuroimaging. The self has been defined as \"the total, essential, or particular being of a person\" involving \"the essential qualities distinguishing one person from another.\" Some suggest that the frontal lobes play a dominant role in maintaining the self. FTD affects anterior frontal and temporal areas and can be associated with a loss of self. Seventy-two consecutive FTD patients were evaluated with neuropsychiatric, neuropsychologic, and behavioral measures. Patients were imaged with MRI and SPECT. Charts were reviewed by a social psychologist to determine patients who exhibited a dramatic change in their self as defined by changes in political, social, or religious values. The brain areas with the most severe atrophy or hypoperfusion on neuroimaging were noted. Seven of 72 patients exhibited a dramatic change in self. In six of the seven, the selective dysfunction involved the nondominant frontal region. In contrast, only one of the other 65 patients without selective nondominant frontal dysfunction showed a change in self. FTD patients with asymmetric loss of function in the nondominant frontal lobe often exhibit a diminished maintenance of previously learned self-concepts despite intact memory and language. Normal nondominant frontal function is important for the maintenance of the self."}
{"id": "11513104", "title": "Sneddon's syndrome: a cause of cognitive decline in young adults.", "content": "Sneddon's syndrome: a cause of cognitive decline in young adults. To review the clinical, psychometric, laboratory, and radiologic findings of 6 patients with Sneddon's syndrome (SS) who presented with cognitive dysfunction rather than stroke. Case series. All patients fulfilled were diagnosed as SS based on the co-occurrence of livedo racemosa and neurologic disease. Patients presenting with clinical stroke were excluded. Patients presented with cognitive complaints at an early age and all noted skin lesions from 6 months to 10 years before onset of cognitive symptoms. Associated systemic disorders included hypertension and seizures. Laboratory evidence of a hypercoagulable condition was identified in 4 of 6 cases. Brain MRI scans demonstrated atrophy, especially in parieto-occipital regions and cerebral blood flow on brain SPECT scan was reduced in a similar distribution. Patients with SS can develop dementia without antecedent clinical stroke. While the specific pathogenic mechanism of dementia in SS remains speculative, the disease predominantly injures brain tissue in vascular \"watershed\" territories."}
{"id": "11495391", "title": "Combined magnetic resonance imaging and single-photon emission tomography scanning in the discrimination of Alzheimer's disease from age-matched controls.", "content": "Combined magnetic resonance imaging and single-photon emission tomography scanning in the discrimination of Alzheimer's disease from age-matched controls. To compare the utility of temporal lobe magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single-photon emission tomography (SPET) scanning in discriminating between subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched controls. Thirty subjects with NINCDS-ADRDA AD (23 probable AD, 5 possible AD, 2 definite AD) and 22 age- and sex-matched controls underwent T1-weighted coronal MRI scanning (0.3 T) and technetium 99m-HMPAO SPET scanning. MRI scans were analyzed using a digitizer system with volumes of hippocampus, amygdala, entorhinal cortex, parahippocampal gyrus, and whole cerebral cortex calculated. From SPET scans, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was assessed in anterior and posterior frontal, parietal, occipital, and mesial temporal cortex using a region of interest analysis with the cerebellum as a reference area. Using MRI, the areas that best separated groups were left hippocampal and left amygdala volume, resulting in correct classification (patient vs. control) in 79% of cases (sensitivity 77%, specificity 82%). Exactly the same proportion of subjects were correctly classified by SPET, with the most discriminating rCBF changes being left parietal and right posterior frontal. Combining information from both scans improved the proportion of correctly classified subjects in a discriminant function to 90% (sensitivity 93%, specificity 86%; only 2 AD and 3 controls misclassified). All AD subjects had abnormalities on MRI and/or SPET (sensitivity for combined examinations 100%), while abnormalities on both MRI and SPET had a positive predictive value of 100% for dementia (including the detection of one control subject who later had dementia). Significant correlations between MRI and SPET measures were seen in control subjects but not in patients. Both 0.3 T MRI and single rotating gamma camera SPET were equally useful in separating AD subjects from age-matched controls, although the combination of both significantly enhanced discrimination. In particular, all AD subjects had abnormalities on either MRI or SPET and both techniques may have an important role in assisting with clinical diagnosis, though replication in other centers and examination of differentiation of AD from other causes of dementia need to be examined."}
{"id": "11487194", "title": "Perfusion ECD/SPECT in the characterization of cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Perfusion ECD/SPECT in the characterization of cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease. Cognitive abnormalities have been reported in a large percentage of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Often cognitive changes are sub-clinical and involve frontal lobe function. In other occasions they develop into full dementia. Functional neuroimaging may help characterize these abnormalities. We have studied brain perfusion with SPECT and the tracer ECD in 44 PD patients, 22 presenting with normal cognitive function and 22 with clinical and neuropsychological signs of dementia. Compared with 21 healthy controls, demented PD patients showed significant perfusion decrements in all cortical areas, particularly temporal and parietal regions; in the non-demented cohort reductions were limited to the frontal lobe area. These results suggest that brain perfusion abnormalities are present in PD patients. It is speculated that different pathological mechanisms underlie perfusion differences."}
{"id": "11479833", "title": "[Aphasia and dementia].", "content": "[Aphasia and dementia]. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is an uncommon neurodegenerative syndrome characterized by a relatively isolated dissolution of language function at the beginning, followed by deterioration of general cognitive function and of activities of daily living after 2 or more years. On account of neuropathological and clinical findings, PPA is supposed to form part of the spectrum of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We present a case study of a 66-year-old woman with a probable fluent progressive aphasia. She initially experienced word amnesia and developed after 2 - 3 years gradual regression of word comprehension, over-fluent speech with semantic paraphasias, and at last generalized dementia. In addition to minor bilateral cortical volume reduction on CCT, MRI showed left temporal lobe atrophy involving hippocampus, SPECT revealed reduced uptake left frontal and temporal."}
{"id": "11465929", "title": "Cognitive impairment in motor neuron disease with bulbar onset.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in motor neuron disease with bulbar onset. Twenty-three patients with bulbar onset motor neuron disease/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (MND/ALS) were clinically assessed. They subsequently underwent serial neuropsychological testing, event-related potentials (ERP) and SPECT studies. Cognitive impairment was defined by clinical evidence of dementia (DSM-IV and frontal evaluation) or by significant alteration indicated by neuropsychological testing (excluding patients with depression and major anxiety), or both. Eleven patients (48%) were found to be cognitively impaired. Abnormalities indicated fronto-temporal involvement, with memory impairment, alteration of judgement and reasoning, reduced speech, behavioural dyscontrol and alteration of daily living activities. This impairment correlated well with event-related potentials and SPECT studies. Event-related potentials were the most sensitive test as 100% of the impaired patients had abnormal ERP (p = 0.04). The cognitively impaired group differed from the other group mainly by gender ratio (male/female) with an important male predominance: 1.75 vs. 0.33. MND/ALS was also more severe when cognitive decline was present. This study adds further arguments for a cognitive impairment in MND/ALS. This also reinforces the hypothesis that there is continuum between MND/ALS and fronto-temporal lobe dementia."}
{"id": "11462291", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging hyperintensity, and cognitive impairments in patients with vascular dementia.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging hyperintensity, and cognitive impairments in patients with vascular dementia. The relationship between subcortical hyperintensity (SH) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cortical perfusion on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and cognitive function is not well understood. The authors examined these relationships in individuals with vascular dementia (VaD), paying particular attention to frontal lobe function to determine whether the presence of SH on MRI was associated with frontal hypoperfusion on SPECT, which in turn would be associated with impairments of executive-attention function. Patients with vascular dementia (n = 26) were assessed on neurocognitive tests and brain MRI and SPECT. SH volume was quantified from the axial T2-weighted fluid attenuated inversion recovery MRI. Total counts of activation across voxels for 12 cortical regions of interest were determined from SPECT. Perfusion ratios of both total cortical and frontal activation relative to cerebellum activation were derived, and regression analyses were performed to determine the relationships between cognitive, MRI, and SPECT indices. SH volume on MRI was significantly associated with frontal lobe perfusion, but not with global cortical perfusion as measured by SPECT. Frontal lobe perfusion did not consistently correlate with performance on measures of executive-attention function, although both total and frontal perfusion ratios were significantly associated with other cognitive functions. These results suggest that a functional \"disconnection\" between the frontal lobes and subcortical structures does not fully account for the magnitude of global cognitive impairment in VaD. Cortical perfusion as measured by SPECT appears to be associated with cognitive performance, but not specifically executive-attention dysfunction. Additional studies are needed to further examine the relationship between subcortical and cortical function in VaD."}
{"id": "11438640", "title": "SPECT imaging in dementias.", "content": "SPECT imaging in dementias."}
{"id": "11435680", "title": "Vascular dementia: a cognitive SPET-CBF activation study.", "content": "Vascular dementia: a cognitive SPET-CBF activation study. We investigated the pattern of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) responses to a cognitive task in vascular patients with and without dementia. We studied 8 controls and 18 vascular patients by quantitative rCBF assessed by (133)Xe inhalation method and SPET, both at rest and during a cognitive figure recognition task. Eight were mildly demented and 10 were nondemented vascular patients. According to their task performance, 12 patients were classified as 'good performers' (GPs) and 6 patients as 'poor performers' (PPs). Vascular patients activated a larger number of brain areas than controls. No differences were observed between controls, nondemented and mildly demented patients in the pattern of rCBF activation. GPs presented a lower mean percentage of rCBF increase than either controls or PPs. GPs had lower values than PPs in the left temporal, parietal and occipital regions and in the right posterior cingulate and occipital regions. These data suggest that vascular patients may functionally compensate for vascular damage by activating more brain areas than controls do and, consequently, by increasing the rate of regional activation."}
{"id": "11433770", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with presenile dementia showing bilateral degeneration of the pyramidal tract on cranial MRI].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with presenile dementia showing bilateral degeneration of the pyramidal tract on cranial MRI]. A 58-year-old man developed dysarthria followed by a personality change. Subsequently, he developed muscle weakness and atrophy of the left upper and lower limbs, leading to repeated falls when he tried to walk. Neurological examination showed mild dementia, dysarthria, dysphagia, atrophy and fasciculation of the tongue, and muscle weakness and atrophy of all four extremities, particularly on the left side. Deep tendon reflexes were slightly diminished in the upper limbs and slightly exaggerated in the lower limbs without Babinski's sign. Cranial MRI revealed marked atrophy of the medial portions of the temporal lobes, more striking on the right, and T2-weighted imaging revealed symmetrical high-intensity signals from the posterior limbs of the internal capsules to the cerebral peduncles in the midbrain, extending to the pons on the left. 125I-IMP SPECT showed diffuse reduction of RI uptake in the frontal and temporal lobes, which was more marked on the right. We diagnosed this is a case of motor neuron disease with presenile dementia, which Mitsuyama et al. proposed as a new clinical entity, as well as a rare example of bilateral degeneration of the pyramidal tract on cranial MRI."}
{"id": "11432093", "title": "[78-yr-old male patient with dementia].", "content": "[78-yr-old male patient with dementia]."}
{"id": "11416945", "title": "Correlation of rCBF (SPECT), CSF tau, and cognitive function in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, other types of dementia, and control subjects.", "content": "Correlation of rCBF (SPECT), CSF tau, and cognitive function in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, other types of dementia, and control subjects. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) during life remains difficult and a definite diagnosis of AD relies on histopathological confirmation at post-mortem or by cerebral biopsy. It is well known that levels of tau proteins are consistently and significantly increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Alzheimer's patients versus levels in normal controls. However, the sole use of this biochemical marker as a test for AD is hampered by mediocre specificity, since tau concentrations may also be elevated in certain other neurological disorders (OND). Studies of the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) are widely performed because of their convenience and usefulness in a variety of neurological disorders. Most studies have reported high diagnostic accuracy for brain perfusion single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) in Alzheimer's disease. In order to improve specificity, in this study, correlation of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT scanning and CSF tau protein levels was made in 117 patients with AD, 67 patients with OND (26 of which had other dementias), and 23 age-matched controls. Means and standard deviations of tau protein levels were 297, 42 +/- 221, 12 in AD patients and 78, 07 +/- 98, 51 in patients with OND (p = 0.0006). No correlation was noted between CSF tau protein levels and age, duration of the disease, and neuropsychological scores of mini-mental state examination (MMSE), Cambridge Cognitive Examination (CAMCOG), and Functional Rating Scale for Symptoms of Dementia (FRSSD). There was a bilateral parietal and temporal hypoperfusion in patients with AD in SPECT in comparison to normal subjects (p < 0.05) and there was a statistical correlation between this hypoperfusion and neuropsychological tests, such as MMSE and CAMCOG (p < 0.01). There was no correlation between tau protein levels and hypoperfusion in SPECT. Conclusively, the correlation between elevated levels of tau proteins and hypoperfusion in SPECT in AD patients therefore cannot improve the specificity of tests in AD and this means that the determination of CSF tau proteins levels is not a specific diagnostic test for AD."}
{"id": "11403184", "title": "57Co SPECT, 99mTc-ECD SPECT, MRI and neuropsychological testing in senile dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "57Co SPECT, 99mTc-ECD SPECT, MRI and neuropsychological testing in senile dementia of the Alzheimer type. Inflammatory mechanisms contribute to the pathophysiology of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (sDAT). Previous studies have shown that 57Co single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is able to visualize inflammatory lesions, probably by means of the final common pathway of Ca2+ homeostasis disturbance in both neuronal degeneration and inflammation. The aims of this study were: (1) to detect 57Co SPECT changes in sDAT patients; (2) to correlate these findings with those of conventional neuroimaging techniques and neuropsychological testing (NPT); and (3) to compare 57Co SPECT findings in sDAT patients with those in other types of dementia. Six patients suffering from probable sDAT were included and compared with four patients suffering from other types of dementia. All patients had a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, NPT, 57Co and 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) SPECT scan. Perfusion SPECT images were semiquantitatively evaluated by comparison with an age-matched normal database, while 57Co SPECT scans were assessed qualitatively. MRI and 99mTc-ECD SPECT scans yielded conclusive results with regard to the exclusion of other pathologies and the confirmation of the diagnosis. Using visual analysis, 57Co SPECT scans were unable to show any regional raised uptake, irrespective of the disorder, depth or extent of the perfusion defects, presence of atrophy on MRI or the results of NPT."}
{"id": "11402144", "title": "The influence of right frontotemporal dysfunction on social behavior in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "The influence of right frontotemporal dysfunction on social behavior in frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is associated with a variety of cognitive and behavioral dysfunctions. Symptoms may be influenced by the relative involvement of the right versus the left hemisphere, with left-sided FTD manifesting language changes and right-sided FTD presenting with aggressive, antisocial, and other socially undesirable behaviors. To test the hypothesis that right-sided FTD is associated with socially undesirable behavior. The authors assessed 41 patients with FTD diagnosed by the new research criteria for FTD(1) including behavioral, neuropsychologic, and neurologic testing as well as SPECT and MRI. Based on visual inspection of SPECT scans, 12 patients were classified as having predominantly right-sided and 19 patients were classified as having predominantly left-sided FTD. A clinician blinded to the imaging data reviewed medical records to tabulate the frequency of the following socially undesirable behaviors: criminal behavior, aggression, loss of job, alienation from family/friends, financial recklessness, sexually deviant behavior, and abnormal response to spousal crisis. Eleven of 12 right-sided and 2 of 19 left-sided FTD patients had socially undesirable behavior as an early presenting symptom (chi = 23.3, p < 0.001). The authors conclude that right-sided frontotemporal degeneration is associated with socially undesirable behavior. The early presence of socially undesirable behavior in FTD differentiates right-sided from left-sided degeneration. The results highlight the importance of the right hemisphere, especially frontotemporal regions, in the mediation of social behavior. The potential mechanism for these social losses with right-sided disease is discussed."}
{"id": "11402143", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia (Pick's disease): clinical features and assessment.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia (Pick's disease): clinical features and assessment. The clinical presentation in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) reflects the distribution of the pathologic changes rather than the exact histologic subtype of the disease. Three major clinical syndromes can be identified: 1) frontal variant FTD (dementia of frontal type) in which changes in social behavior and personality predominate, reflecting the orbitobasal frontal lobe focus of the pathology. Traditional cognitive tests are insensitive, but more specific measures are under development; 2) semantic dementia (progressive fluent aphasia) in which there is a breakdown in the conceptual database which underlies language production and comprehension, although deficits in nonverbal semantic knowledge can also be shown on neuropsychologic testing. Patients with semantic dementia have asymmetric anterolateral temporal atrophy with relative sparing of the hippocampal formation, which is typically worse on the left side. A variant of this syndrome affecting the right temporal lobe presents with progressive prosopagnosia; 3) progressive nonfluent aphasia in which the phonologic and syntactic components of language are affected in association with left peri-Sylvian atrophy. The assessment of patients with potential FTD involves a multidisciplinary approach. The development of comprehensive caregiver-based neuropsychiatric instruments, neuropsychologic tasks sensitive to semantic memory and other key cognitive impairments, and functional (hexamethyly-propyleneamine-SPECT) and structural (MRI) brain imaging represent significant advances in the field."}
{"id": "11398344", "title": "[Usefulness of SPECT images in helping radiologists understand brain diseases].", "content": "[Usefulness of SPECT images in helping radiologists understand brain diseases]. Nuclear brain imaging is able to show functional abnormalities of lesions that are not detectable by CT and MR images. The diagnostic keys of nuclear-imaging in terms of clinical usefulness are its early detection of lesions and determination of the efficacy of drug and surgical therapies. In dementic patients, F-18 FDG brain images can be diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease 12 months earlier than is possible on CT and MRI images, and can provide information for effective drug therapy. O-15 water CBF images can predict the effect of Nicholin by assessing transient increases in cerebral blood flow (CBF), thereby facilitating improvement in higher brain functions such as orientation. In stroke patients, brain SPECT images with Tc-99m HMPAO can predict fatal cerebral hemorrhage caused by anti-thrombic therapy by showing the decrease in count ratio (count ratio of infarcted to contralateral area of < 0.34) in the acute phase and identifying disruption of the blood brain barrier by showing hyperfixation in the subacute phase. Brain SPECT with I-123 IMP can also identify \"misery\" perfused areas resulting from reduced CBF and decreased vasoreactivity in the chronic phase. This criterion is utilized for patient selection for extracranial/intracranial bypass surgery, because patients with areas of poor perfusion might be indicated for such surgery. Since nuclear medicine images can accurately select candidates for drug or surgical therapies, they will be beneficial in reducing Medicare costs as well as in enhancing patients' quality of life as a result of the successful treatment. With the advancement of technology, nuclear medicine units that can simultaneously obtain CT images and can combine functional with anatomical images will provide more useful information for the diagnosis of brain disease."}
{"id": "11390549", "title": "(133)Xe SPECT cerebral blood flow study in a healthy population: determination of T-scores.", "content": "(133)Xe SPECT cerebral blood flow study in a healthy population: determination of T-scores. Dementia is becoming a major health problem as the population of the Northern Hemisphere ages. Early differential diagnosis between normal cognitive decline and dementia is particularly difficult. If psychometric evaluation can contribute to the diagnosis, quantitative cerebral functional imaging would play an important role. We therefore proposed, first, to constitute a normative dataset that could later be used to identify subjects at risk for neurodegenerative processes and, second, to describe the risk of abnormal global cerebral blood flow (gCBF) by defining categories based on the standardized cutoff scores of a young, healthy population (T-score). Of a total of 203 healthy volunteers, 187 were included in the protocol, which included evaluation of medical history, neurologic and neuropsychologic status, and body composition; analysis of blood; and measurement of gCBF by means of (133)Xe SPECT. With ANOVA analysis using age and sex as between-subject factors and gCBF as a within-subject factor, a significantly higher gCBF was found in women than in men. In addition, a linear reduction as a function of age was observed for both sexes (-0.3%/y). T-score was determined for the 18- to 28-y-old age group, for whom gCBF was found to be 46.7 +/- 5.1 mL/min/100 g tissue in men and 49.0 +/- 5.0 mL/min/100 g tissue in women. The age-dependent decrease could thus be expressed in T-scores and, in the 29- to 38-y-old, 39- to 48-y-old, and >48-y-old age groups, averaged -0.63, -1.29, and -1.92, respectively, in men and -0.63, -0.83, and-2.40, respectively, in women. Cognitive performance, body composition, and blood analysis revealed the expected significant effects from sex and age. The large-scale reference database of gCBF measurements constituted from a healthy, well-controlled population enabled age and sex stratification, which showed significant differences between the sexes and a significant decline as a function of age. T-scores were determined and warrant further studies on the prospective identification of early dementia by (133)Xe SPECT in elderly individuals."}
{"id": "11375135", "title": "The role of neuroimaging in dementia.", "content": "The role of neuroimaging in dementia. Potential new therapies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease demand early and accurate diagnosis. Although clinical evaluation is generally sufficient when the disease is well established, neuroimaging tools are helpful to detect the earliest changes of Alzheimer's disease or differentiate Alzheimer's disease from the other forms of dementia. This article reviews the basic concepts of brain imaging and clinical application. It concludes with a brief discussion of future directions in neuroimaging for the diagnosis and longitudinal follow-up of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "11337551", "title": "Brain SPECT in neurology and psychiatry.", "content": "Brain SPECT in neurology and psychiatry. Structural and functional images of the brain play an important role as powerful adjuncts in the management of an increasing number of neurologic and psychiatric diseases. Brain SPECT, in particular, with perfusion agents or with neuroreceptor imaging radiopharmaceuticals, is rapidly becoming a clinical tool in many places. For many neurologic and psychiatric conditions, this imaging modality has been used in diagnosis, prognosis assessment, evaluation of response to therapy, risk stratification, detection of benign or malignant viable tissue, and choice of medical or surgical therapy. The importance of this technique in nuclear medicine today should not be overlooked, particularly in cerebrovascular diseases, dementias, epilepsy, head injury, malignant brain tumors, movement disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, schizophrenia, depression, panic disorder, and drug abuse."}
{"id": "11330787", "title": "The evolution of cerebral perfusion abnormalities in Lewy body disease: assessment with Tc-99m hexamethylpropylene amineoxime single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "The evolution of cerebral perfusion abnormalities in Lewy body disease: assessment with Tc-99m hexamethylpropylene amineoxime single photon emission computed tomography."}
{"id": "11309451", "title": "Dementia as a complication of schizophrenia.", "content": "Dementia as a complication of schizophrenia. Cognitive impairment is known to occur in schizophrenia, and may be marked in institutionalised patients. The aim of this study was to determine whether it ever warrants an additional diagnosis of dementia. A population of chronic schizophrenic patients who were aged 65 or younger and showed no organic risk factors for dementia were screened for presence of disorientation. Any showing this underwent neuropsychological testing, physical investigations, and structural and functional neuroimaging. Information about day to day cognitive function was also obtained from carers. Eight patients aged 28 to 64 were identified who showed disorientation; in all cases this was accompanied by general intellectual impairment and objective evidence of a dementia syndrome. The patients' schizophrenic symptoms were unexceptional and did not seem sufficient to account for their cognitive impairment. Neuropsychological testing disclosed relative sparing of visual and visuospatial function and language syntax, but pervasive deficits in memory and executive function. Brain CT demonstrated only minor abnormalities but most of the patients showed frontal or temporal hypoperfusion on SPECT. Dementia in schizophrenia seems to be a real entity with a neuropsychological signature similar to that of frontotemporal dementia. Functional but not structural imaging abnormalities may also be characteristic."}
{"id": "11304085", "title": "Perfusion brain SPECT and statistical parametric mapping analysis indicate that apathy is a cingulate syndrome: a study in Alzheimer's disease and nondemented patients.", "content": "Perfusion brain SPECT and statistical parametric mapping analysis indicate that apathy is a cingulate syndrome: a study in Alzheimer's disease and nondemented patients. Apathy is the most frequent behavioral symptom in Alzheimer's disease and is also frequently reported in other brain organic disorders occurring in the elderly. Based on the literature, we hypothesized that apathy was related to an anterior cingulate hypofunction. Forty-one subjects were studied. According to ICD 10 diagnostic criteria, 28 patients had Alzheimer dementia (demented: diagnostic group 1), and 13 had organic personality disorders or mild cognitive impairment not attributable to dementia (nondemented: diagnostic group 2). Apathy was evaluated by the Neuro-Psychiatric Inventory. As a result each diagnostic group was divided into two symptomatic subgroups: apathetic or nonapathetic. Brain perfusion was measured by (99m)Tc-labeled bicisate (ECD) brain SPECT and the images were compared using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM96). We began by comparing apathetic vs nonapathetic patients, whatever their diagnostic group (whole population), then analyzed them within each group. Twenty-one subjects were apathetic (14 in group 1 and 7 in group 2) and 20 were not (14 in group 1 and 6 in group 2). For the whole population, the Z map showed a significant decrease in ECD uptake for the apathetic patients in the anterior cingulate (P < 0.002) bilaterally. This area was also identified as hypoactive by SPM analysis in the demented (P < 0.035) and in the nondemented (P < 0.02) apathetic patient groups. Finally, conjunction analysis indicated that the anterior cingulate was the common hypoactive structure of the two apathetic subgroups (Z = 4.35, P < 0.0009). These results point to a close relationship between apathy and the anterior cingulate region."}
{"id": "11294935", "title": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a clinical-pathologic study.", "content": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a clinical-pathologic study. Numerous studies have suggested that temporoparietal hypoperfusion seen on brain imaging with SPECT may be useful in diagnosing AD during life. However, these studies have often been limited by lack of pathologic validation and unrepresentative samples. The authors performed this study to determine whether SPECT imaging provides diagnostically useful information in addition to that obtained from a clinical examination. Clinical data and SPECT images were collected prospectively, and patients were followed to autopsy. Clinical history, pathologic findings, and SPECT images were each evaluated by raters blind to other features, and clinical and SPECT diagnoses were compared with pathologic diagnoses. The study population consisted of 70 patients with dementia, followed to autopsy; 14 controls followed to autopsy; and 71 controls (no autopsy performed). The primary outcome was the likelihood of a pathologic diagnosis of AD given a positive clinical diagnosis, a positive SPECT diagnosis, and both. When all participants (patients and controls) were included in the analysis, the clinical diagnosis of \"probable\" AD was associated with an 84% likelihood of pathologic AD. A positive SPECT scan raised the likelihood of AD to 92%, whereas a negative SPECT scan lowered the likelihood to 70%. SPECT was more useful when the clinical diagnosis was \"possible\" AD, with the likelihood of 67% without SPECT, 84% with a positive SPECT, and 52% with a negative SPECT. Similar results were found when only patients with dementia were included in the analysis. In the evaluation of dementia, SPECT imaging can provide clinically useful information indicating the presence of AD in addition to the information that is obtained from clinical evaluation."}
{"id": "11284990", "title": "A survey of neuroimaging research in European neurological departments.", "content": "A survey of neuroimaging research in European neurological departments. In the international neurological literature, neuroimaging research plays an important role. Neuroimaging techniques are also of steadily increasing importance for clinical diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Therefore, neuroimaging research activities were surveyed by a questionnaire, which was completed by 100 neurological centres across Europe. It showed that most groups use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), fMRI, computerized tomography (CT) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). Positron emission tomography (PET) and ultrasound are also employed by nearly half of the centres. Neuroimaging research involves co-operation amongst typically five to 10 disciplines. Cerebrovascular disease, dementia, cognitive disorders, epilepsy, movement disorders, brain tumours and multiple sclerosis are frequently being studied. Many groups rely on small budgets, have few full-time scientists and limited access to expensive resources. There is little exchange of scientists amongst laboratories. It was felt that funding and co-operation needed improvement in order to maintain a high standard in neuroimaging research."}
{"id": "11283218", "title": "Making slides of nuclear medicine images using a scanner, personal computer, commercial software, and a laser graphic printer.", "content": "Making slides of nuclear medicine images using a scanner, personal computer, commercial software, and a laser graphic printer. The process of making slides for presentation of nuclear medicine data has historically used methods that require some photographic expertise. This paper describes the use of readily available software and hardware to achieve the same result. Surface images generated for SPECT images of a normal patient and a patient with Alzheimer's dementia were used to develop the technique described. Images were scanned and processed using commercially available software and a personal computer. Slides were generated by a slide printer and compared with electronic presentations of the same images. The method described is easier than the photographic method used in the past, and the quality of the presentation material (either slide or electronic) is readily predictable."}
{"id": "11252157", "title": "Estrogen protects against the synergistic toxicity by HIV proteins, methamphetamine and cocaine.", "content": "Estrogen protects against the synergistic toxicity by HIV proteins, methamphetamine and cocaine. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection continues to increase at alarming rates in drug abusers, especially in women. Drugs of abuse can cause long-lasting damage to the brain and HIV infection frequently leads to a dementing illness. To determine how these drugs interact with HIV to cause CNS damage, we used an in vitro human neuronal culture characterized for the presence of dopaminergic receptors, transporters and estrogen receptors. We determined the combined effects of dopaminergic drugs, methamphetamine, or cocaine with neurotoxic HIV proteins, gp120 and Tat. Acute exposure to these substances resulted in synergistic neurotoxic responses as measured by changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and neuronal cell death. Neurotoxicity occurred in a sub-population of neurons. Importantly, the presence of 17beta-estradiol prevented these synergistic neurotoxicities and the neuroprotective effects were partly mediated by estrogen receptors. Our observations suggest that methamphetamine and cocaine may affect the course of HIV dementia, and additionally suggest that estrogens modify the HIV-drug interactions."}
{"id": "11245717", "title": "Occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies but not AD.", "content": "Occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies but not AD. To compare regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes using 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) SPECT in subjects with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and AD and in normal age-matched control subjects; to examine the utility of SPECT changes in the differential diagnosis of AD and DLB. Whole-brain SPECT scans were acquired using a single-headed rotating gamma camera (IGE CamStar XR/T) in elderly subjects with consensus criteria DLB (n = 23; mean age = 79.4 years), National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association AD (n = 50; 81.9 years), and normal control subjects (n = 20; 78.1 years) after injection with 500 MBq of 99mTc-HMPAO. Region-of-interest analysis was performed using a SPECT template registered in Talairach space, with rCBF normalized to cerebellum. Both DLB and AD subjects had significantly reduced rCBF in parietal and temporal regions compared with the control subjects. The AD group also showed a significant reduction in rCBF in the frontal and medial temporal regions and the DLB in the occipital areas compared with control subjects. AD and DLB groups differed only in occipital perfusion (p < 0.01). SPECT measures (occipital and medial temporal) correctly classified 69% of all subjects, with a 65% sensitivity and 87% specificity for DLB against AD and control subjects. Temporoparietal hypoperfusion on SPECT is common to both AD and DLB. Occipital hypoperfusion is more frequently seen in DLB. Although not diagnostically specific in individual cases, occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT should raise suspicion that DLB may be the cause of dementia, prompting careful search for other features of the disorder."}
{"id": "11244217", "title": "Comparison of brain perfusion in corticobasal degeneration and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparison of brain perfusion in corticobasal degeneration and Alzheimer's disease. To compare brain perfusion between corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), we measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) semiquantitatively with single-photon emission computed tomography in 10 patients with CBD and 16 with AD. There was no significant difference in age or illness duration between the patients with CBD and AD. Mini-Mental State Examination scores were significantly lower in the AD patients than in the CBD patients. All CBD patients showed asymmetric akinetic-rigid syndrome and limb apraxia. Four CBD patients were demented, and 1 AD patient had parkinsonism. Compared with 12 age-matched control subjects, the average of the left and right rCBF values for the CBD patients was significantly reduced in the prefrontal, anterior cingulate (AC), medial premotor, sensorimotor (SM), posterior parietal (PP) and superior temporal (ST) cortices as well as in the basal ganglia (BG) and thalamus (Th), while the prefrontal, PP and ST cortices were significantly hypoperfused in the AD patients. In the CBD patients, rCBF was significantly less in the AC and SM cortices, and in the Th and BG, and significantly greater in the PP cortex than in the AD patients. Interhemispheric differences of rCBF in the inferior prefrontal and SM cortices were significantly greater in the CBD patients than the AD patients. It is concluded that rCBF comparison may aid in differentiating CBD from AD."}
{"id": "11244210", "title": "Mapping pathological (99m)Tc-d,l-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime uptake in Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia with SPECT.", "content": "Mapping pathological (99m)Tc-d,l-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime uptake in Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia with SPECT. Seventeen patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 7 patients with frontal lobe dementia (FLD) and 19 control subjects (NOR) were examined by (99m)Tc-d,l- hexamethylpropylene amine oxime ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) SPECT. Images were standardised in the same 3D space and averaged within each group. After normalisation, the three sets of images were analysed in all cerebral lobes, hippocampus, thalamus and basal ganglia. In AD, the (99m)Tc-HMPAO uptake values were significantly reduced, as compared to NOR, in the parietal, temporal and insular lobes. In patients with FLD, the uptake was altered in all lobes with the exception of the parietal lobe. The uptake in the nucleus caudatus decreased significantly in both AD and FLD as compared to NOR. The uptake in the anterior cingulate cortex was significantly reduced in FLD. Subtraction images highlighted all significantly decreased areas. In conclusion, standardising SPECT in a common space and subtracting data from a control group improves the visual interpretation of images. In this study, the typical temporo-parietal and fronto-parietal (99m)Tc-HMPAO uptake reductions were found in AD and FLD, respectively. The uptake in the nucleus caudatus was found to decrease significantly in AD and FLD and the one in the anterior cingulate cortex was reduced in FLD."}
{"id": "11231037", "title": "Hyperthyroid dementia: clinicoradiological findings and response to treatment.", "content": "Hyperthyroid dementia: clinicoradiological findings and response to treatment. Dementia associated with hyperthyroidism is less well documented than is hypothyroid dementia. Therapeutic response of hyperthyroid dementia and associated cerebral circulatory and/or metabolic abnormalities has not been elucidated. We described a patient with hyperthyroid dementia and clinicoradiological response to treatment. Single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) study was repeated and analyzed semiquantitatively. A 67-year-old man experienced progressive impairments of attention, memory, constructive skills and behavior as well as hand tremor and weight loss of two-year duration. Laboratory findings were compatible with Graves' disease. The initial SPECT showed diffuse tracer uptake defect with an accentuation in the bilateral temporoparietal regions. Clinical and SPECT findings both suggested concurrent \"possible\" Alzheimer's disease. However, initial treatment with a beta-blocker improved behavior and attention-related cognitive functions as well as tracer uptake in the frontal lobes. Subsequent treatment with additional methimazole then improved memory and constructive abilities when a euthyroid state was established. Uptake defect in the temporoparietal regions also responded gradually to the medication. We suggest that the present patient represent hyperthyroid dementia, which responds favorably to treatment with regard to clinical symptoms and SPECT findings. We also suggest that thyroid function be measured in patients with \"possible\" Alzheimer's disease because treatable hyperthyroid dementia may not be identified."}
{"id": "11182469", "title": "Astrocytes degenerate in frontotemporal dementia: possible relation to hypoperfusion.", "content": "Astrocytes degenerate in frontotemporal dementia: possible relation to hypoperfusion. To understand the extent and specificity of astrocyte pathology in sporadic frontotemporal dementia (FTD), we examined several FTD cases for molecular and morphologic characteristics of astrocyte degeneration. We quantified reactive and degenerating astrocytes in sections of frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortex identified using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) labeling, and morphological characteristics and compared them with nondemented, age-matched control brains. Conventional and confocal microscopy revealed that a subpopulation of GFAP(+) astrocytes exhibited positive TdT labeling and beading of their processes in the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices in 5 of 7 FTD cases that also exhibited gliosis. This morphology was reproduced in cultured astrocytes using ischemic insults. Degenerating astrocytes in FTD correlated inversely with cerebral blood flow as measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) analysis of (133)Xe inhalation (r = 0.55, p < 0.05). Furthermore, areas of significant astrogliosis corresponded to areas of SPECT hypoperfusion, suggesting that astrocytes may be affected by or perhaps have a causal role in the disturbances of cerebral perfusion in FTD."}
{"id": "11181853", "title": "Distinct behavioural profiles in frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia.", "content": "Distinct behavioural profiles in frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia. To test predictions that frontotemporal dementia and semantic dementia give rise to distinct patterns of behavioural change. An informant based semistructured behavioural interview, covering the domains of basic and social emotions, social and personal behaviour, sensory behaviour, eating and oral behaviour, repetitive behaviours, rituals, and compulsions, was administered to carers of 41 patients with semantic dementia and with apathetic (FTD-A) and disinhibited (FTD-D) forms of frontotemporal dementia. Consistent with prediction, emotional changes differentiated FTD from semantic dementia. Whereas lack of emotional response was pervasive in FTD, it was more selective in semantic dementia, affecting particularly the capacity to show fear. Social avoidance occurred more often in FTD and social seeking in semantic dementia. Patients with FTD showed reduced response to pain, whereas patients with semantic dementia more often showed exaggerated reactions to sensory stimuli. Gluttony and indiscriminate eating were characteristic of FTD, whereas patients with semantic dementia were more likely to exhibit food fads. Hyperorality, involving inedible objects, was unrelated to gluttony, indicating different underlying mechanisms. Repetitive behaviours were common in both FTD and semantic dementia, but had a more compulsive quality in semantic dementia. Behavioural differences were greater between semantic dementia and FTD-A than FTD-D. A logistic regression analysis indicated that emotional and repetitive, compulsive behaviours discriminated FTD from semantic dementia with 97% accuracy. The findings confirm predictions regarding behavioural differences in frontotemporal and semantic dementia and point to differential roles of the frontal and temporal lobes in affect, social functioning, eating, and compulsive behaviour."}
{"id": "11173885", "title": "Cerebrospinal fluid tau levels increase with age in healthy individuals.", "content": "Cerebrospinal fluid tau levels increase with age in healthy individuals. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau is a promising biochemical ante-mortem marker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Levels are increased in AD compared to other dementias, neurological diseases and healthy controls. An age-related decrease in both soluble tau and tau bound to paired helical filaments has been shown in brains from non-demented subjects. To study tau levels in normal ageing, we investigated CSF in 29 healthy individuals aged 45-80 years. A statistically significant increase in CSF tau with increasing age was found which might be caused by neuronal loss during normal ageing and redistribution of soluble tau from the brain into CSF. We could not demonstrate any influence by the APOE genotype, though larger populations have to be investigated to confirm this result. In conclusion, we found an age-dependent increase in CSF tau in healthy individuals. We emphasise the importance of establishing an age-dependent interval of CSF tau in non-demented subjects."}
{"id": "11166948", "title": "Virtual image grasping in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "Virtual image grasping in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. Patients with various neuropsychiatric disorders who confused virtual images with real objects have recently been described. When asked to take objects from an investigator's hand while looking in a mirror, these patients reached directly into the mirror for the object's image. To investigate whether the phenomenon occurs in patients with Alzheimer's disease, we studied 127 cases, of whom 67 were suspected of having Alzheimer-type dementia (DAT). The phenomenon in question was not observed in either of two control groups, but whereas 38 (57%) of the DAT patients responded correctly, 17 (25%) of them grasped at the mirror image. Characteristically, none of the eight patients who grasped into the mirror and underwent single photon emission computed tomography analysis showed symmetric activity. We also analyzed the behaviour and verbal utterances of the DAT patients in front of the mirror."}
{"id": "11133791", "title": "Selective impairment of verb processing associated with pathological changes in Brodmann areas 44 and 45 in the motor neurone disease-dementia-aphasia syndrome.", "content": "Selective impairment of verb processing associated with pathological changes in Brodmann areas 44 and 45 in the motor neurone disease-dementia-aphasia syndrome. We report six patients with clinically diagnosed and electrophysiologically confirmed motor neurone disease (MND), in whom communication problems were an early and dominant feature. All patients developed a progressive non-fluent aphasia culminating in some cases in complete mutism. In five cases, formal testing revealed deficits in syntactic comprehension. Comprehension and production of verbs were consistently more affected those that of nouns and this effect remained stable upon subsequent testing, despite overall deterioration. The classical signs of MND, including wasting, fasciculations and severe bulbar symptoms, occurred over the following 6-12 months. The behavioural symptoms ranged from mild anosognosia to personality change implicating frontal-lobe dementia. In three cases, post-mortem examination has confirmed the clinical diagnosis of MND-dementia. In addition to the typical involvement of motor and premotor cortex, particularly pronounced pathological changes were observed in the Brodmann areas 44 (Broca's area) and 45. The finding of a selective impairment of verb/action processing in association with the dementia/aphasia syndrome of MND suggests that the neural substrate underlying verb representation is strongly connected to anterior cortical motor systems."}
{"id": "12607227", "title": "Report of three cases of Alzheimer's disease with focal motor symptoms: clinical correlates of neuroimaging findings.", "content": "Report of three cases of Alzheimer's disease with focal motor symptoms: clinical correlates of neuroimaging findings. We report clinical and neuroimaging findings for three patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) with focal motor symptoms. These patients initially showed cognitive deficits and subsequently featured myoclonus and awkward movements in the unilateral upper limb while progressing to paresis. Paresis was noted in the unilateral upper limb. All patients held the unilateral arm flexed at the wrist and elbow, closely adducted to the body and the hand fisted and pronated. No signs of cerebellar ataxia, sensory disturbance or long tract signs were observed, nor any of the initial non-cognitive behavioural changes typical of frontotemporal dementia. EEGs of these patients showed marked slowing of basic activity without epileptic discharges. MRIs showed progressive brain atrophy in the contralateral frontoparietal lobes as well as the hippocampal formation. Cases 2 and 3 featured extensive long T2 lesions on MRI. 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT revealed blood flow hypoperfusion in the corresponding regions. The cerebellum and brain stem showed neither morphological abnormalities nor blood flow hypoperfusion. On the basis of these clinical and neuroimaging observations, the focal motor symptoms were attributed to contralateral frontoparietal cortical atrophy with or without white matter lesion."}
{"id": "11332190", "title": "[Familial pure akinesia].", "content": "[Familial pure akinesia]. We report a 67-year-old man and his family presenting pure akinesia (PA). He developed bradykinesia. A neurological examination showed a lack of facial expression but no tremor or rigidity. His eye movement was full, and he had frozen gait and pulsion symptoms. There was no evidence of dementia. Levodopa therapy was not effective. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed no brainstem and cerebellar atrophy. 99mTc-ECD-SPECT had no further abnormality. His father and brother had similar symptoms as him. We conclude that this family is the first reported example of pure akinesia with autosomal dominant inheritance."}
{"id": "11253380", "title": "Lateralized cortical perfusion in women with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Lateralized cortical perfusion in women with Alzheimer's disease. To define the pathophysiologic substrate of gender differences in cognition and behavior in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hemispheric regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was studied in a consecutive series of dementia patients using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Subjects included 300 outpatients who were studied with SPECT as part of a diagnostic evaluation for degenerative dementia or memory disorder. Based on qualitative descriptions by a radiologist, subjects were classified as having unilateral left, unilateral right, bilateral, or no perfusion defects. Semiquantitative analysis of SPECT images was also performed using region of interest radionuclide counts normalized to the cerebellum. Among 174 females and 126 males, unilateral left hemisphere defects were found more commonly in women than men (24% vs 10%; chi 2 = 9.4; P = .009). This observation was most significant for the 103 females and 62 males regarded as having probable AD (26% vs 8%; chi 2 = 9.3; P = .01). In a multiple regression model of clinical variables, shorter duration of disease and female gender were significant independent predictors of the unilateral left hemisphere pattern among those with probable AD. Age, family history, education, handedness, and severity of cognitive impairment were not significant contributors. Women with AD exhibit greater heterogeneity in rCBF than men. Asymmetry in rCBF occurs more often in women. In some cases, this is related to relative preservation of right hemisphere function in women."}
{"id": "11198502", "title": "Cerebellar involvement in Langerhans' cell histiocytosis: a progressive neuropsychiatric disease.", "content": "Cerebellar involvement in Langerhans' cell histiocytosis: a progressive neuropsychiatric disease. We describe a 21-year-old patient who was being followed since the age of 3(1/2) years for Langerhans' cell histiocytosis. Although previously a bright and gifted student, the patient presented at age 16(1/2) with new-onset cerebellar neurologic signs, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and dementia. Findings on magnetic resonance imaging study of the brain were normal, but brain single photon emission computed tomography with technetium 99m ethylene cysteinate dimer showed markedly decreased cerebellar perfusion. This case is unique for the wide extent of the central nervous system involvement in Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, which has not been reported previously. Although obsessive-compulsive disorder has also been associated with several other cerebellar disorders, it is still unknown whether the cerebellum plays a role in its development. We suggest that in some cases, brain single photon emission computed tomography may be superior to magnetic resonance imaging for demonstrating cerebellar disorder in Langerhans' cell histiocytosis."}
{"id": "11191929", "title": "Abnormality of N30 somatosensory evoked potentials in Parkinson's disease: a multidisciplinary approach.", "content": "Abnormality of N30 somatosensory evoked potentials in Parkinson's disease: a multidisciplinary approach. Assess the N30 component of median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and correlate its parameters with the severity of the disease, general cognitive ability and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Twenty-three non-demented, non-depressed PD patients (at stage II and III of the disease) and 23 age- and education-matched normal controls were enrolled in the study. SEPs were elicited by median nerve stimulation. PD patients' cognitive ability was assessed by means of: 1) Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices (RCPM); 2) the Test of Non-Verbal Intelligence (TONI-2); and 3) the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). The patients' rCBF was evaluated by HMPAO SPECT. There was no difference between SEP N30 latency in PD patients and controls (P > 0.05). The P20-N30 peak-to-peak amplitude was lower in PD patients bilaterally (P < 0.05), and the amplitude of N30-P40 was lower on the right side only (P < 0.05). A significant increase in the amplitude ratio P14-N20/P20-N30 was observed in PD patients (P < 0.05). The correlation of these findings with the clinical parameters of the disease, and notably motor signs, was not significant. Of the three neuropsychological tests only the RCPM showed a positive relation to right P20-N30 amplitude. Regression analysis between SEP parameters and rCBF showed a correlation of N30 amplitude with blood flow in parietal cortical areas, but not in frontal regions."}
{"id": "11189899", "title": "[Clinical applications of single photon emission tomography in neurology. 2. Dementia, psychoses, inflammation, skull and brain injuries].", "content": "[Clinical applications of single photon emission tomography in neurology. 2. Dementia, psychoses, inflammation, skull and brain injuries]. This article gives in his second part a critical review of the clinical applications of SPECT with perfusion markers and receptor ligands in dementing disorders and psychosis. In addition this review discusses clinical applications of SPECT investigations with perfusion markers in inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system and in brain trauma."}
{"id": "11139988", "title": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Dementia with Lewy bodies]. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most frequent neuropathologically diagnosed degenerative dementing illness. The clinical characteristics are progressive dementia, parkinsonian syndrome, fluctuations of cognitive functions, alertness, and attention, visual hallucinations (usually detailed and well described), depression, REM sleep behavior disorder, adverse responses to standard neuroleptics doses, falls, syncopes, systematized delusions, and other modalities of hallucinations. Specificity of the clinical diagnostic criteria is high (95%), and sensitivity is considerably lower. Mean age at disease onset ranges between 60 and 68 years. The male gender prevails. Disease duration is 6 to 8 years. The differential diagnoses of DLB are dementia of the Alzheimer type, Parkinson's disease, subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and rarely Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The genetic background of the disease is unclear. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission tomography can contribute to the diagnosis. Controlled pharmacological studies have so far not been published. The disease is treated with L-dopa, atypical neuroleptics, acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, antihypotensive agents, and peripheral anticholinergic and alpha receptor-blocking medications to improve neurogenic bladder dysfunction."}
{"id": "11104528", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: a pure case.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies: a pure case. A pure case of autopsy-confirmed dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is described. The patient presented with distinctive verbal fluency deficits in the context of mild language impairment, intact recognition memory, and impaired paragraph recall. Neuroimaging (CT and SPECT) showed progressive medial temporal lobe atrophy. Neuropathology revealed Lewy bodies, degeneration in the substantia nigra, nucleus basalis of Meynert (Nakano & Hirano, 1984), and locus ceruleus, but no pathology characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. It is in this sense that the case is \"pure\" DLB. Early neuropsychological diagnosis of DLB is essential (Salmon et al., 1996) given the potentially fatal hazard of neuroleptics (McKeith et al., 1992) and the difficulties associated with clinical neurological diagnoses (Litvan et al., 1998)."}
{"id": "11103407", "title": "[Functional magnetic resonance tomography in neuroradiology].", "content": "[Functional magnetic resonance tomography in neuroradiology]. The assessment of cerebral functions has long been the domain of positron-emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography. The use of rapid imaging sequences and contrast agents enables physiological and pathophysiological cerebral processes to be assessed and monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Both T1- and T2-weighted contrast-enhanced fast imaging sequences can be used to assess tissue perfusion, vascularity, and microcirculation by applying models developed in nuclear medicine. The diffusion of water molecules and hemodynamic aspects of the macrovasculature can also be monitored. Functional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging enables the visualization of neuronal function and activity, and MR spectroscopy makes possible the metabolic mapping of lesions and surrounding tissue. The advantages of MR techniques includes their low invasiveness, multiplanar imaging ability, and lack of radiation. This contribution discusses the clinical use of functional MR imaging methods and their role in neuroradiological diseases. Measuring perfusion and diffusion allows detailed insight into the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia and is already being used routinely in acute ischemic stroke. Dynamic MR angiography enables the hemodynamic assessment of vascular malformations. In CNS neoplasms these imaging techniques can improve lesion characterization and the selecting, planning, and monitoring of therapy. Functional MR imaging techniques have also revolutionized the study of psychiatric illness; however, their clinical utility here is still limited. Initial results in patients with dementia and schizophrenia have provided insight into the pathophysiological changes of these diseases."}
{"id": "11096220", "title": "Total recovery after bilateral paramedian thalamic infarct.", "content": "Total recovery after bilateral paramedian thalamic infarct. Bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts are characterised initially by the association of acute vigilance disorders and vertical gaze palsy, followed by persisting dementia with severe mnemic disturbance, global aspontaneity and apathy. We describe a patient with a dramatic neuropsychological recovery, confirmed by testing examination and completed by a cerebral metabolism study. The pathophysiology of this type of cognitive deficit is discussed."}
{"id": "11091111", "title": "Neuropharmacological studies with SPECT in neuropsychiatric disorders.", "content": "Neuropharmacological studies with SPECT in neuropsychiatric disorders. The last decade saw a rapid development of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) from a tool to assess cerebral blood flow to the study of specific neurotransmitter systems. Because of the relatively long half-life of SPECT radioisotopes, it is practical to measure the availability of neuroreceptors and transporters in conditions approaching equilibrium. The cost-efficiency of SPECT allowed studies in relatively large samples of patients with various neuropsychiatric disorders. We have applied this approach in studies of dopaminergic, serotonergic, and muscarinergic neurotransmission in patients with dementia, extrapyramidal disorders, schizophrenia, and alcoholism. No simple associations were observed between a single defect in one neurotransmitter system and a certain neuropsychiatric disease. Instead, complex dysfunction of several neurotransmitter systems in multiple, partially connected brain circuits have been implicated. Treatment effects also have been characterized. Microdialysis and neurotransmitter depletion studies showed that most radioligands and endogenous neurotransmitters compete for binding at receptors and transporters. Future research directions include the assessment of endogenous neurotransmitter concentrations measured by depletion studies and of genetic effects on neuroreceptor and transporter expression."}
{"id": "11078011", "title": "Part IV. Neuroimaging in dementing disorders.", "content": "Part IV. Neuroimaging in dementing disorders."}
{"id": "11072266", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementia.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementia. Positron emission tomography, single photon emission computed tomography, and MR imaging are brain imaging techniques that have been applied widely to the study of patients with dementia. This article reviews current data on the clinical use of these techniques in the differential diagnosis of dementia and the prediction of dementia in those at risk."}
{"id": "11039460", "title": "Basal and activational 99Tcm-HMPAO brain SPECT in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Basal and activational 99Tcm-HMPAO brain SPECT in Alzheimer's disease. Early diagnosis in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is important for the administration of new treatments. The purpose of this study was to differentiate mildly/moderately demented AD patients from normal controls by means of activational brain SPECT, and to investigate the correlation between regional cerebral blood flow and dementia severity. Activational brain SPECT was performed 1 week after basal brain SPECT in 12 mild/moderate AD patients according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria (mean age 69+/-7 years) and in seven healthy, age-matched, volunteer controls (mean age 65+/-9 years). In order to activate the parietal cortex, patients were asked to subtract serial 5's from 100, 2 min before and after the intravenous administration of 925 MBq technetium-99m labelled D,L-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime (99Tcm-HMPAO). Using a three-headed gamma camera equipped with high resolution collimators, 128 images of 35 s duration in a 64 x 64 matrix were obtained over 360 degrees. Region to whole brain ratios (R/WB) were calculated in three consecutive transaxial slices 2 pixels thick above the orbitomeatal line, and the activation percentage was calculated. No statistical difference was detected between AD patients and normal controls for parietal cortex activation. The correlation coefficient between the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scoring and the activation percentage was 0.475 in normal controls and 0.175 in AD patients for the left anterior parietal cortex, and 0.353 in normal controls and 0.146 in AD patients for the right anterior parietal cortex. In a visual evaluation of parietal cortex activation, 50% of AD patients were able to activate the parietal cortex, whereas 86% of the normal controls could do so. In our current study, the subtraction of serial 5's was not regarded as a promising task. Further studies are needed to clarify the importance of such tasks in the differential diagnosis of mild/moderate AD patients from normal elderly."}
{"id": "11032624", "title": "Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia are differentiated by discriminant analysis applied to (99m)Tc HmPAO SPECT data.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia are differentiated by discriminant analysis applied to (99m)Tc HmPAO SPECT data. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are the most frequent neurodegenerative cognitive disorders. However, FTD remains poorly recognised clinically. The use of (99m)HmPAO-single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) has been demonstrated in the differentiation of AD and FTD. Nethertheless, there are very few comparative studies designed to assess its precise value in this differential diagnosis. The aim was to determine a simple decision rule, deduced from statistical analysis, which, if applied to regions of interest (ROIs) and mini mental state examination (MMSE), could improve the predictive value of SPECT in differential diagnosis between AD and FTD. Forty patients, 20 with probable AD and 20 with probable FTD were included. All patients underwent brain SPECT imaging, after an intravenous injection of (99m)Tc HmPAO-(555mBq). For each patient, 20 ROIs were determined on the Fleishig's slice and their activity was normalised to the mean cerebellar activity. Bivariate analysis (Wilcoxon rank tests) and multivariate analysis (stepwise discriminant analysis) were performed to determine the subgroup of variables able to give the highest predictive value for this differential diagnosis. A simple decision rule was built from a predictive score derived by factorial discriminant analysis. As previously described, the fixation defect was found in frontal regions of interest (ROIs) in FTD and in the left temporoparietal-occipital ROIs in AD. Among the 21 variables, five were finally selected: right median frontal, left lateral frontal, left tempoparietal, left temporoparietal-occipital areas, and MMSE. One hundred per cent of patients with FTD were correctly classified by the decision rule (20/20 patients) and 90% of patients with AD (18/20). AD and FTD are differentiated by SPECT. Automatic classification based on a decision rule deduced from factorial discriminant analysis could enhance its performance."}
{"id": "11002731", "title": "[Beneficial effects of CHOP therapy in a case of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma diagnosed by skin biopsy].", "content": "[Beneficial effects of CHOP therapy in a case of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma diagnosed by skin biopsy]. We report a case of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. A 52-year-old man gradually developed dementia and abnormal behaviors, which were later accompanied by spastic paraplegia and sensory disturbance in his lower limbs. MR imaging of his brain showed high signal intensity lesions on T2 imaging. IMP-SPECT images of the brain showed diffuse reduction of radioisotope uptake. Many skin rashes that looked like senile hemangioma were observed on his body. Several of those were biopsied, and the diagnosis of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma was made because of malignant B lymphocytes filling the vessel lumens in one of the seven biopsy specimens. CHOP therapy was performed and found to be effective for the neurological disorders such as dementia, paraplegia, and sensory disturbance. Our case suggests that skin biopsy for more than one sample of the skin rashes is very important for the diagnosis of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. CHOP therapy might be effective in this case because of early diagnosis by skin biopsy."}
{"id": "11002481", "title": "[Clinical study of cerebral blood flow in bilateral chronic subdural hematoma measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT].", "content": "[Clinical study of cerebral blood flow in bilateral chronic subdural hematoma measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT]. Cerebral blood flow(CBF) in 34 patients with bilateral chronic subdural hematoma was measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT before operation. The regional CBF was measured in 26 regions of the 10 cortical regions, putamen, thalamus and cerebellar hemisphere on both sides. According to the thickness of subdural hematoma, the thicker hematoma side was measured and examined as the thick hematoma side, and the other side as the thin hematoma side. Thirty four cases with bilateral chronic subdural hematoma were classified into four groups on the basis of clinical symptoms: 13 cases with headache(headache group), 10 cases with hemiparesis(hemiparesis group), 5 cases with tetraparesis(tetraparesis group) and 6 cases with consciousness disturbance or dementia(consciousness disturbance group), and into two groups according to the degree of midline brain shift on MRI: 14 cases of non-shifted group and 20 cases of shifted group. The average CBF of 34 patients in each region indicated a regional CBF reduction in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortices on the thin hematoma side, and in the putamen on the thick hematoma side. In the headache group, the regional CBF reduction on the thin hematoma side was found in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortices compared with the corresponding regions on the thick hematoma side, and in thalamus on the thick hematoma side. In the hemiparesis and tetraparesis groups, there was no statistically significant CBF reduction between the thick and thin hematoma sides. In the consciousness disturbance group, the CBF reduction in whole brain was remarkably significant. By the degree of the midline brain shift, the CBF reductions between the thick and thin hematoma sides were observed. Namely, in the shifted group, the CBF reductions were noted in the frontal, parietal and occipital cortices in the thin hematoma side, and in the putamen in the thick hematoma side. We concluded that the CBF reduction of bilateral chronic subdural hematoma was bilaterally found in the hemiparesis and tetraparesis groups, and which was finally observed in whole brain in the consciousness disturbance group."}
{"id": "10997480", "title": "Estrogen and cerebral blood flow: a mechanism to explain the impact of estrogen on the incidence and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Estrogen and cerebral blood flow: a mechanism to explain the impact of estrogen on the incidence and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Women are three times as likely to develop late-onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as are age-matched men. In the perimenopausal period, women typically have profound hypoestrogenism associated with vasomotor episodes. The pattern of AD development in women resembles the hormonal changes that occur in the perimenopausal period; the risk of AD is lower in menopausal women taking estrogen replacement therapy (ERT), and ERT is associated with clinical improvement in AD patients. Further, ERT has been shown to augment the therapeutic benefits of medications designed to treat AD. To understand better the relationship between ERT, hot flushes and AD, a pilot study was conducted at UCLA-Harbor Medical Center. Twelve healthy menopausal women experiencing daily hot flushes and not on ERT were recruited to participate in a clinical study. Each patient underwent regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurement using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) at baseline and during a hot flush episode. Patients were then randomized to receive either 0.625 mg or 1.25 mg conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) daily. During the sixth week of ERT, each patient had a repeat SPECT study. Baseline SPECT data were compared with ERT data. Baseline examinations demonstrated CBF patterns commonly seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease. There was a global improvement in CBF associated with ERT, an average gain of 22% over baseline. Improvements were most dramatic in the temporal and parietal regions of the brain. The cortical CBF demonstrated a mean increase of 9.2 mL/100 g/min (P < .01). CBF is diminished in hypoestrogenic women, with regional patterns resembling those of patients with mild to moderate AD. Cerebral circulation tends to be further compromised during hot flush episodes. This mechanism could be the initiating event in the metabolic process that results in dementia of the Alzheimer's type, and thus serve as the link between hypoestrogenism and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, ERT reversed these detrimental blood flow changes back to a normal pattern after only 6 weeks of CEE therapy. With improved blood flow, the brain is protected from the metabolic injury associated with hypoxia. The study is currently being repeated with a larger population."}
{"id": "10994740", "title": "Scatter and attenuation correction for brain SPECT using attenuation distributions inferred from a head atlas.", "content": "Scatter and attenuation correction for brain SPECT using attenuation distributions inferred from a head atlas. Sequential transmission scanning (TS)/SPECT is impractical for neurologically impaired patients who are unable to keep their heads motionless for the extended duration of the combined scans. To provide an alternative to TS, we have developed a method of inferring-attenuation distributions (IADs), from SPECT data, using a head atlas and a registration program. The validity of replacing TS with IAD was tested in 10 patients with mild dementia. TS was conducted with each patient using a collimated 99mTc line source and fanbeam collimator; this was followed by hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime-SPECT. IAD was derived by deformably registering the brain component of a digital head atlas to a preliminary SPECT reconstruction and then applying the resulting spatial transformation to the full head atlas. SPECT data were reconstructed with scatter and attenuation correction. Relative regional cerebral blood flow was quantified in 12 threshold-guided anatomic regions of interest, with cerebellar normalization. SPECT reconstructions using IAD were compared with those using TS (which is the \"gold standard\") in terms of these regions of interest. When we compared all regions of interest across the population, the correlation between IAD-guided and TS-guided SPECT scans was 0.92 (P < 0.0001), whereas the mean absolute difference between the scans was 7.5%. On average, IAD resulted in slight underestimation of relative regional cerebral blood flow; however, this underestimation was statistically significant for only the left frontal and left central sulcus regions (P = 0.001 and 0.002, respectively). Error analysis indicated that approximately 10.0% of the total error was caused by IAD scatter correction, 36.6% was caused by IAD attenuation correction, 27.0% was caused by discrepancies in region-of-interest demarcation from quantitative errors in IAD-guided reconstructions, and 26.5% was caused by patient motion throughout the imaging procedure. SPECT reconstructions guided by IAD are sufficiently accurate to identify regional cerebral blood flow deficits of 10%, which are typical in moderate and advanced dementia."}
{"id": "10970055", "title": "Contribution of neuroimaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.", "content": "Contribution of neuroimaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. This paper reviews the use of neuroimaging in the diagnosis of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease. Computed tomography is still used to determine reversible causes of dementia; however, without clinical symptoms these causes are hard to find and computed tomography scanning is only cost-effective in a defined group of patients. Using magnetic resonance imaging, atrophy of the medial temporal lobe can be assessed volumetrically and visually, with a high correlation between the two methods. Medial temporal lobe atrophy is highly predictive of Alzheimer's disease, and correlates with neuropsychological performance and postmortem histologically measured volume. Cerebral volume changes over time seem to differentiate Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment progressing to Alzheimer's disease from controls with high accuracy. Studies of the corpus callosum in dementia indicate a cortico-cortical disconnection caused by atrophy. Of the new techniques, functional magnetic resonance imaging seems the most promising. This technique can possibly play a role in predicting Alzheimer's disease in patients with mild cognitive impairment. The use of single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography in (early) differential diagnoses seems limited. Lower regional cerebral blood flow is related to the severity of dementia and survival. Iodine-123 iodobenzamide single-photon emission computed tomography in dementia with Lewy bodies seems promising. Current and future positron emission tomography studies concentrate on memory function and receptor imaging. The focus in neuroimaging, especially magnetic resonance imaging, has shifted to early diagnosis and monitoring of the disease course, with a special interest in predicting dementia in patients with mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "10969905", "title": "Arg133Cys mutation of Notch3 in two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL.", "content": "Arg133Cys mutation of Notch3 in two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL. More than 80 unrelated, but all Caucasian, patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), originating from various communities around the world, have been molecularly identified. To clarify the occurrence of CADASIL in Orientals, we investigated Japanese families presenting as CADASIL. We performed the PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses using genomic DNA, isolated from venous blood of participants under informed consent. We identified two unrelated Japanese families with CADASIL, including 5 affected members through 2 generations. Each of the affected individuals developed recurrent strokes without risk factors resulting in progressive dementia, pseudobulbar palsy, and gait disturbances which started after the fifth decade of life. Although affected individuals had no vascular risk factors, they showed various degrees of narrowing of retinal arteries. Their MRI/CTs showed characteristics of the disease; bilateral small infarcts in the thalamus, basal ganglia, brain stem, and deep white matter in addition to the findings of leukoaraiosis. On SPECT imaging, there was severe hypoperfusion in the cortex as well as in the white matter. Ultrastructural studies revealed an abnormal deposition of granular osmiophilic materials (GOM) within the basal lamina of pericytes in muscular capillaries. On PCR-SSCP and sequence analyses, a heterozygous Arg133Cys mutation was present, in the affected individuals, in the exon 4 of Notch3 gene which is the hot spot region for CADASIL mutations in Caucasian families. None of the non-affected members nor the 50 Japanese normal controls revealed this mutation. Thus, our results confirm that CADASIL is a geographically widespread disorder caused by a Notch3 mutation."}
{"id": "10965365", "title": "[New insights in frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[New insights in frontotemporal dementia]. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by progressive behavioural disturbance, aphasia and a decline in frontal cognitive functions. Frontotemporal atrophy on CT and MRI, and hypoperfusion of the frontal brain regions on single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), are characteristic findings. Neuropathological examination reveals deposition of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein in neurons and glial cells in a number of the sporadic and familial cases, while aspecific changes with neuronal loss, spongiosis and gliosis are found in the remaining cases. A familial form with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance is seen in 20% of FTD patients. Mutations in the tau gene have been identified in a number of families with deposition of abnormal tau protein in affected brain regions. Presymptomatic DNA testing is now available for relatives of patients with tau mutations, but must only be considered after extensive genetic counselling in a centre with neurogenetic expertise."}
{"id": "10940758", "title": "Hippocampal perfusion and pituitary-adrenal axis in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Hippocampal perfusion and pituitary-adrenal axis in Alzheimer's disease. The hippocampus is involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and regulates the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA). Enhanced cortisol secretion has been reported in AD. Increased cortisol levels affect hippocampal neuron survival and potentiate beta-amyloid toxicity. Conversely, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate (DHEAS) are believed to antagonize noxious glucocorticoid effects and exert a neuroprotective activity. The present study was aimed at investigating possible correlations between hippocampus perfusion - evaluated by SPECT - and HPAA function in AD. Fourteen patients with AD and 12 healthy age-matched controls were studied by (99m)Tc-HMPAO high-resolution brain SPECT. Plasma adrenocorticotropin, cortisol, and DHEAS levels were determined at 2.00, 8.00, 14.00, 20.00 h in all subjects and their mean values were computed. Cortisol/DHEAS ratios (C/Dr) were also calculated. Bilateral impairment of SPECT hippocampal perfusion was observed in AD patients as compared to controls. Mean cortisol levels were significantly increased and DHEAS titers were lowered in patients with AD, as compared with controls. C/Dr was also significantly higher in patients. Using a stepwise procedure for dependent SPECT variables, the variance of hippocampal perfusional data was accounted for by mean basal DHEAS levels. Moreover, hippocampal SPECT data correlated directly with mean DHEAS levels, and inversely with C/Dr. These data show a relationship between hippocampal perfusion and HPAA function in AD. Decreased DHEAS, rather than enhanced cortisol levels, appears to be correlated with changes of hippocampal perfusion in dementia."}
{"id": "10940680", "title": "First symptoms--frontotemporal dementia versus Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "First symptoms--frontotemporal dementia versus Alzheimer's disease. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is often misdiagnosed as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesized that the first symptoms associated with FTD would be different from those seen in AD and that the first symptoms in FTD would reflect loss of function in the frontal region with the greatest degree of degeneration. The objective of the study was to compare the earliest symptoms in patients with FTD and AD, and to delineate the symptoms that were associated with right, left or bilateral frontotemporal degeneration in FTD. The first symptoms in 52 FTD and 101 AD patients were determined in retrospect. Based on functional imaging studies, the FTD patients were divided into those with predominantly bilateral (n = 15), left-sided (n = 19) and right-sided (n = 18) patterns of atrophy. The results showed that disinhibition, social awkwardness, passivity and loss of executive function were more common in FTD, while memory loss was more common in AD. Disinhibition was greatest in the asymmetric right-sided group, language dysfunction was commonest in the asymmetric left-sided group and loss of executive function was most frequent in the bilateral group. In summary, different first symptoms appeared in FTD and AD, which may help distinguish between the diseases. The anatomic site for FTD largely determined the kind of first symptoms."}
{"id": "10940679", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia can be distinguished from Alzheimer's disease and subcortical white matter dementia by an anterior-to-posterior rCBF-SPET ratio.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia can be distinguished from Alzheimer's disease and subcortical white matter dementia by an anterior-to-posterior rCBF-SPET ratio. Sixteen patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 27 with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 25 with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, 19 with subcortical white matter dementia (SWD) and 28 normal controls underwent semiquantitative regional cerebral blood flow measurement (rCBF) using single-photon emission tomography (SPET; (99m)Tc-HMPAO) and either computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. An anterior-to-posterior rCBF-SPET ratio (mesial superior frontal gyrus/medial temporal lobes) was calculated, which significantly separated the FTD group from the other dementia groups and controls with a sensitivity of 87.5% and a specificity of at least 78.6%. CT/MRI was found to be helpful in the differential diagnosis between FTD and SWD. In FTD patients, the mesial superior frontal gyrus, near the polus frontalis, was found to be the region with the most reduced rCBF values."}
{"id": "10920426", "title": "[Dementia caused by neurosyphilis: clinical and neuropsychological follow-up of a patient].", "content": "[Dementia caused by neurosyphilis: clinical and neuropsychological follow-up of a patient]. Dementia is one of the manifestations of late syphilis and it is characterized by cognitive deterioration and behaviour disturbances. We report on a male patient with cognitive decline, behaviour disorder, hyperactivity, hallucinations, short-term memory and Argyll Robertson pupils due to neurosyphilis. Minimental state test (MST) was 16. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein concentration was 82 mg/dl, CSF-leucocyte count 128 cells/mm3 (98% mononuclear cells), CSF-VDRL 1:4, and CSF-T.pallidum haemaglutination assay 1:2560. MRI showed no cerebral alteration, but SPECT revealed left fronto-temporal hypocaptation. He received intravenous penicillin. MST done 3 months after the treatment scored 22. A new spinal tap showed normal CSF. Neurosyphilis should be part of the differential diagnosis of every patient showing cognitive deterioration and behaviour disturbances. During follow-up, MMS is an useful instrument to ++measure cognitive decline and response to treatment."}
{"id": "10919351", "title": "Corticobasal degeneration: an autopsy case clinically diagnosed as progressive supranuclear palsy.", "content": "Corticobasal degeneration: an autopsy case clinically diagnosed as progressive supranuclear palsy. We report an autopsy case diagnosed clinically as progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), but neuropathologically confirmed as corticobasal degeneration (CBD). A 56-year-old Japanese woman slowly developed parkinsonism, dementia, character change, followed by vertical gaze palsy and dystonia. Brain MRI demonstrated diffuse cerebral atrophy with severe shrinkage of the brain stem tegmentum. The SPECT images using 123I-IMP disclosed symmetrical hypoperfusion in the frontal lobes. She died of respiratory failure at the age of 71. Gross inspection of the brain showed diffuse, symmetrical atrophy of the cerebrum and marked atrophy of the Luysian body, globus pallidus, substantia nigra and nuclei of the brain stem tegmentum. Microscopically, neuronal loss and fibrillary gliosis were observed in the Luysian body, globus pallidus, substantia nigra and nuclei of the brain stem tegmentum. The cerebellar dentate nucleus showed mild neuronal loss with some grumose degeneration. Neurofibrillary tangles were found only in the Luysian body, substantia nigra and raphe nuclei, whilst tau-positive inclusions were observed more extensively. Astrocytic plaques and swollen achromatic neurones were found in the postcentral gyrus. There were no tuft-shaped astrocytes in the brain. The clinicopathological similarities and differences between PSP and CBD are discussed."}
{"id": "10892306", "title": "[Two siblings with adult-type metachromatic leukodystrophy: correlation between clinical symptoms and neuroimaging].", "content": "[Two siblings with adult-type metachromatic leukodystrophy: correlation between clinical symptoms and neuroimaging]. We reported two siblings with adult-type metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). Patient 1 was a 19-year-old male, and patient 2 was a 20-year-old female. Their initial symptoms were similar. They developed abnormal behavior and personality changes, poor concentration, and inappropriate smiling. In patient 1, his condition deteriorated and he developed incontinence. His attention span and verbal expression severely decreased. He had an inability to engage in meaningful conversation. The siblings were diagnosed as having MLD by marked reduced leukocyte arylsulfatase A activity. T2-weighted MRI of these two cases showed a high intensity area in the cerebral white matter. The high intensity areas of the cerebral white matter gradually spread over one year. However, SPECT of these cases showed only a few abnormal findings in the initial stage. Using SPECT, a reduction of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) spreading to the cerebral cortex was seen over one year after it was seen using MRI. The discrepancy between MRI and SPECT findings in the initial stage was characteristic. MLD is an important disease that involves white matter dementia. The discrepancy between MRI and SPECT is helpful to diagnose white matter dementia."}
{"id": "10875129", "title": "[A 59-year-old woman with recurrent convulsive seizures, cerebral infarctions, dementia, and intracranial calcifications].", "content": "[A 59-year-old woman with recurrent convulsive seizures, cerebral infarctions, dementia, and intracranial calcifications]. A 59-year-old woman with recurrent seizures and progressive dementia is reported. Her past history and familial history were unremarkable. She became short-tempered at 56 years old (Oct. 1991). She had the first seizure attack and was admitted to a hospital at March 4, 1993, with prolonged disturbance of consciousness and subsequent mental deterioration. Her brain CT showed multiple small calcifications in the subcortical white matter and pons. The laboratory data including blood count, serum chemistry, serological studies and CSF was normal. MRI and digital subtraction angiography of the cranial vessels were unremarkable. There was a decrease in accumulation in the right cerebral hemisphere on 123I IMP SPECT. Despite anti-convulsant therapy, she had recurrent seizures several times, with gradual worsening of her mental state. She had the latest seizure attack and was transferred to Matsusaka Chuo Hospital, on August 29, 1993. After the attack she had been in the apallic state, and died on Nov. 13, 1995. This case was discussed in a neurological CPC. The discussants suggested that the isolated angiitis of the central nervous system caused secondary seizures and cerebral infarctions. Post-mortem examination revealed the CNS findings of vasculitis at various stages, calcification or mineralization mainly in the subcortical white matter and pons, massive cerebral infarctions with massive exudate, fresh and old small bleedings and exudate around the inflamed or calcified vessels. The white matter degeneration resembled that of Binswanger leukoencephalopathy. The final pathological diagnosis was isolated angiitis of the central nervous system since there was no inflammatory changes or atherosclerotic change of the blood vessels in the extracranial organs."}
{"id": "10875107", "title": "[Clinical characteristics and indications for shunting in patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus with brain atrophy (atypical idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus)].", "content": "[Clinical characteristics and indications for shunting in patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus with brain atrophy (atypical idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus)]. To clarify clinical characteristics of atypical idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (AINPH) and indications for shunt operations. Subjects examined in the present study included 65 patients who satisfied the following 4 diagnostic criteria of AINPH and underwent V.P shunt with Medos type shunt system; set pressure: epidural standard pressure x 13.6 - 20 mmH2O (omission of a figure in the first place). The diagnostic criteria were: 1) no apparent history of intra- or extra-cranial disease; 2) dementia was present as a main complaint; 3) the presence of moderate to severe cerebral atrophy and ventricular enlargement and PVL around the anterior horn on CT scans; 4) normal cerebrospinal pressure and filling of ventricles or subarachnoid space with contrast medium at 24 hours on cisternography. The patients were aged 49-83 with the mean age of 62.9 years; the ratio of male to female was 37:28. They were categorized as shunt-effective (group E: 36 cases) or non-shunt-effective (group NE: 29 cases), and the following parameters in both groups were compared: 1. clinical characteristics: 2. the presence or absence of pressure wave (PW) during preoperative continuous epidural pressure measurement (EDPM) 3. CSF outflow resistance (Ro) 4. preoperative serum alpha-1-antichymotrpsin (alpha-1-ACT) 5. cerebral arteriovenous difference of oxygen content (c-AVDO2) before and after surgery 6. mean cerebral blood flow (mCBF; 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT) before and after surgery. 1. Group E had a shorter duration between symptom onset and hospital visit (within 16 months and showed hyporoluntary and hyporeactivity as their main complaints associated with gait disturbance; the time course of symptoms was classified as suddenly progressing and fluctuating in many cases. Group NE had a relatively longer duration between symptom onset and hospital visit and showed activeness, wandering, nervousness and quick temper as their main complaints; the time course of symptoms was classified as progressing in many cases. 2. PW-positive cases were all included in group E. but some PW-negative cases were also observed in group E. 3. Ro was significantly higher in group E (p < 0.01), and cases with a Ro value over 20 mmHg/ml/min. were all included in group E. 4. alpha-1-ACT was significantly lower in group E (p < 0.05), and cases with an alpha-1-ACT value over 55 mg/dl were all included in group NE. 5. Although preoperative c-AVDO2 was significantly higher in group E (p < 0.05), cases with a c-AVDO2 value over 8.5 ml% were all included in group NE. c-AVDO2 values were within 5-8.5 ml% in all cases of group E. 6. mCBF significantly increased after surgery in group E (p < 0.001). 7. It was confirmed that cerebral atrophy in group E on AINPH is caused by a cerebral circulation disturbance defined as a cerebral blood flow of penumbra or more due to cerebral arteriosclerosis, etc. 8. A flowchart of indications for shunt surgery for AINPH was prepared based on the results of the present study."}
{"id": "10867784", "title": "Left frontotemporal hypoperfusion is associated with aggression in patients with dementia.", "content": "Left frontotemporal hypoperfusion is associated with aggression in patients with dementia. Aggressive behavior is common in patients with dementia. Temporolimbic and prefrontal cortical lesions can produce pathological aggression; however, involvement of these structures has not been established in aggressive patients with dementia. To study the relation between regional brain perfusion and aggressive behavior in patients with dementia. We compared the pattern of regional cerebral perfusion determined with technetium Tc 99m-labeled hexamethylpropelene amineoxime single photon emission computed tomography in 2 groups of 10 patients with dementia with and without aggression, that were comparable for demographic factors, severity of cognitive impairments, and other behavioral symptoms as measured by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Patients with aggression revealed significant (P<.001) hypoperfusion in the left anterior temporal cortex; additional bilateral dorsofrontal and right parietal cortex were also found to be significantly hypoperfused. These results indicated an association between aggression and decreased perfusion in the left anterior temporal cortex. Arch Neurol. 2000."}
{"id": "10866105", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in multi-infarct-dementia related to primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in multi-infarct-dementia related to primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. The primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (PAPS) has been described in patients with a history of fetal loss, thrombocytopenia and arterial or venous thrombosis. In PAPS, a prothrombotic state is mediated by antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLs) leading to disseminated thromboembolic vascular occlusion. Today, the presence of aPLs in the serum is considered as a distinct risk factor for recurrent stroke in young adults. Some PAPS patients develop a multi-infarct-syndrome with a stepwise decline of higher cortical functions. We report on a 55-year-old man suffering from progressive dementia and PAPS, in whom cerebral glucose metabolism and blood flow were examined by positron emission tomography (PET). Cerebral atrophy and moderate signs of leukaraiosis were detected in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), whereas the PET scans showed a considerable diffuse impairment of cortical glucose metabolism combined with a reduced cerebral perfusion in the arterial border zones. These findings indicate that PAPS-associated vascular dementia is accompanied by a cortical neuronal loss, presumably caused by a small-vessel disease with immune-mediated intravascular thrombosis. This case shows that pathological findings in PAPS are congruent to cerebral changes of metabolism and blood flow in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)."}
{"id": "10865093", "title": "Familial frontotemporal dementia with a P301L tau mutation in Japan.", "content": "Familial frontotemporal dementia with a P301L tau mutation in Japan. We have reported the family line with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in Japan. This family line has so far included four patients. Patient II-1 (man) had a 10 year history of slowly progressive personality and behavioral changes and died at the age of 56. His neuropathological examination showed severe atrophy of the bilateral frontal and temporal cortices with neuronal loss, gliosis and superficial spongiosis. Pick bodies were not found. The neuropathological diagnosis was atypical Pick's disease without Pick bodies or Pick-type in FTD. Patient III-2 is patient II-1's oldest daughter and was taken ill with personality change at the age of 52. She died at the age of 68. Patient III-4 is patient II-1's second daughter. Her onset with strange speech and behavior was at the age of 59. Patient III-5 is patient II-1's oldest son. He also had onset with personality change at the age of 54 and had the P301L mutation in tau. In all III generation cases CT/MRI revealed circumscribed frontotemporal atrophy. Patient III-5's PET/SPECT showed signs of hypoperfusion or hypometabolism in the bilateral frontotemporal areas. This is the first report of familial FTD with the P301L mutation in Japan."}
{"id": "10854006", "title": "Cerebral perfusion in hypertensives with carotid artery stenosis: a comparative study of lacidipine and hydrochlorothiazide.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion in hypertensives with carotid artery stenosis: a comparative study of lacidipine and hydrochlorothiazide. Focal cerebral hypoperfusion is a common finding in uncomplicated hypertensives even in the absence of large vessel atherosclerosis, and neuropsychological deficits correlate with cerebral hypoperfusion in hypertensive patients with cerebral microangiopathy. We investigated the effects on cerebral perfusion of the dihydropiridine calcium antagonist lacidipine and of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in asymptomatic hypertensive patients with concomitant atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries. Fifteen essential hypertensives (including 13 males, aged 55-75 years) with at least one 30-60% stenosis of the internal carotid artery at echo-color Doppler examination were treated in a double-blind, randomized, parallel study with lacidipine (4-6 mg od) or HCTZ (25-50 mg od) for 3 months after a 4-week single-blind placebo period. Regional cerebral perfusion was assessed at baseline and at the end of the treatment period with HMPAO-SPECT. Relative perfusion of cortical and subcortical areas was calculated as the ratio between their tracer activity and that of the cerebellum. At baseline, mean relative perfusion (MRP) of the cortical and subcortical areas was similar in the stenotic and the contralateral side. Despite the fall in pressure, lacidipine increased MRP both in the cortical and in the subcortical areas, whereas HCTZ increased MRP only in the cortical areas. The mean change in local vascular resistance, adjusted for initial perfusion value, was -20 A.U. (arbitrary unit) with lacidipine and -12 A.U. with HCTZ (p < 0.001). These differential effects of antihypertensive drugs on subcortical perfusion may be of benefit in the long-term prevention of vascular dementia in hypertensive patients."}
{"id": "10851363", "title": "Effects of estrogen on cognition, mood, and cerebral blood flow in AD: a controlled study.", "content": "Effects of estrogen on cognition, mood, and cerebral blood flow in AD: a controlled study. To examine the effects of estrogen therapy on cognition, mood, and cerebral blood flow in patients with AD. Some studies have suggested estrogen may be effective in the treatment of AD. However, most of these studies were not controlled adequately. Fifty female AD patients were recruited in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week trial. Each member of the estrogen-treated group received conjugated estrogen (Premarin) 1.25 mg/day. The primary outcome measures were the Cognitive Ability Screening Instrument (CASI), Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), and Clinician Interview-Based Impression of Change (CIBIC-plus). The secondary outcome measures were Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease (BEHAVE-AD), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HARS), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), and 99mTc hexamethylpropylene amine oxime SPECT of the brain. No meaningful differences were found between the outcome measures (CASI, CDR, CIBIC-plus, BEHAVE-AD, HARS, HDRS, and cerebral blood flow) taken from the estrogen-treated group and those from the control group. A 1.25-mg/day dose of Premarin administered for 12 consecutive weeks does not produce a meaningful effect on cognitive performance, dementia severity, behavior, mood, and cerebral perfusion in female AD patients. Because estrogen therapy has been suspected of yielding adverse effects, and its therapeutic effectiveness is in doubt, additional evaluation of its role in AD treatment ought to be conducted."}
{"id": "10846677", "title": "[Cortical and subcortical dementia: where is the difference?].", "content": "[Cortical and subcortical dementia: where is the difference?]."}
{"id": "10835938", "title": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia, presenting motor aphasia as an initial symptom].", "content": "[A case of motor neuron disease with dementia, presenting motor aphasia as an initial symptom]. We report a case of motor neuron disease (MND) with dementia, presenting motor aphasia as an initial symptom. A 67-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of speech disturbance slowly progressing for 2 years. On physical examination, he showed no neurological abnormalities except for non-fluent aphasia and increased deep tendon reflexes without laterality. MRI demonstrated bilateral fronto-temporal atrophy, dominating the left hemisphere. This finding was confirmed by surface anatomy scanning (SAS), showing an obvious atrophy in the left inferior frontal gyrus, compared with the right one. SPECT with 123I-IMP revealed some irregular defects in the bilateral frontotemporal region. Because he showed dementia, bulbar palsy with tongue atrophy, weakness of upper extremities and facial muscles, snout reflex, and the atrophy and fasciculation in limbs in addition to motor aphasia soon after the discharge from our hospital, he was diagnosed as having MND with dementia. At age 68, he died of a respiratory failure 3 years after the onset of the disease. MND with dementia seldom shows motor aphasia as an initial symptom. We must include, however, the MND with dementia as an differential diagnosis when we see the patients with progressive aphasia."}
{"id": "10821439", "title": "Striatal [123I]beta-CIT SPECT and prefrontal cognitive functions in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Striatal [123I]beta-CIT SPECT and prefrontal cognitive functions in Parkinson's disease. Twenty non-demented patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) underwent single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]beta-CIT to further investigate the contribution of nigrostriatal dysfunction to cognitive and motor deficits. Compared to matched controls PD patients showed normal verbal intelligence, short-term memory and phasic alertness. There were significant (p < 0.05) deficits in tests of verbal working memory (digit ordering, reading span), strategic memory (story recall) and executive functions (card sorting), indicating a \"prefrontal\" cognitive deficit. Significant (p < 0.05) correlations were observed between dopamine transporter (DAT) density in the putamen and motor deficits as well as between DAT density in both striatal compartments (head of the caudate nucleus and putamen) and prefrontal functioning. Age was a major contributing factor to both cognitive status and nigrostriatal integrity as measured by [123I]beta-CIT SPECT. These results support the view that the striatum is part of a neuronal network that is mediating prefrontal cognitive functions."}
{"id": "10818514", "title": "Can PET data differentiate Alzheimer's disease from vascular dementia?", "content": "Can PET data differentiate Alzheimer's disease from vascular dementia? The present study endeavored to differentiate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from vascular dementia (VaD) by comparing the metabolic and hemodynamic parameters. Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies were carried out in 13 patients with probable AD and 20 patients with VaD. PET findings were not included in the diagnostic criteria of AD or VaD. Using oxygen-15 labeled compounds, cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF), cerebral blood volume, and vascular transit time (VTT) were measured quantitatively during the resting state. To evaluate vascular reactivity (VR), CBF was also measured during 7% CO2 inhalation. Regional CBF from the parietal cortex positively correlated with the neuropsychological scores in both AD and VaD groups. The typical parietotemporal pattern of hypoperfusion and hypometabolism was observed in the AD group, whereas the frontal lobe including the cingulate and superior frontal gyri were predominantly affected in the VaD group. The occipital cortex was preserved in both groups. A significant increase of the OEF was found in the parietotemporal areas in the AD group. No significant prolongation was seen with VTT. There was a marked difference in VR between the two groups: VR was depleted in the VaD group, whereas VR was normal in the AD group. The increased OEF with preserved vascular reserve seen in AD may implicate participation of a vascular factor in the pathogenesis of AD, possibly at the capillary level. Thus, PET provides important functional information in discriminating AD from VaD by comparing the patterns of hypoperfusion and/or hypometabolism, and in the understanding of the underlying hemodynamic pathophysiology."}
{"id": "10818497", "title": "Prospects for noninvasive imaging of brain amyloid beta in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Prospects for noninvasive imaging of brain amyloid beta in Alzheimer's disease. The brain in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) contains large amounts of fibrillary amyloid beta protein. Studies attempting to use levels of amyloid beta protein in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid or skin as diagnostic tests for the disease have not been fruitful. A method for the noninvasive detection of cerebral amyloid beta would be valuable for dementia differential diagnosis, pathophysiology and monitoring of anti-amyloid therapies. Anti-amyloid monoclonal antibody 10H3 has been evaluated as an amyloid-imaging ligand, without success. Important considerations in the development of amyloid-imaging ligands include choice of radiolabel and physical and biological half-lives, route of administration, protein binding, use of control molecules, and imaging techniques. It is important that imaging studies be designed to reflect the slow nature of the process of amyloid deposition. We used a transgenic mouse model overexpressing beta protein precursor (beta PP) to assess the binding of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and serum amyloid P component (SAP) to amyloid beta (A beta) plaques in mouse brain. Although the binding of these ligands is similar to AD, neither is found endogenously associated with A beta deposits. Because SAP is a component of mouse serum, these findings suggest the blood-brain barrier in transgenic mice is not affected as it is in AD. These findings suggest that the transgenic mouse may be used as a model for evaluation of A beta imaging methods."}
{"id": "10803810", "title": "Watershed infarction associated with dementia and cerebral atrophy.", "content": "Watershed infarction associated with dementia and cerebral atrophy. A 63-year-old man was admitted with progressive left hemiparesis and left homonymous hemianopsia of 1 month's duration. During the 2 months before admission, he had suffered from slowly progressive dementia. The diagnosis of right-sided watershed (WS) infarction was made. He exhibited slow progression of dementia and cerebral atrophy during the period of observation after discharge. There was a positive relationship between cerebral atrophy and the degree of dementia. In the present case, WS infarction caused by right internal carotid artery occlusion might be related to dementia and cerebral atrophy."}
{"id": "10772123", "title": "Analyses of serum concentrations of apolipoproteins in the demented elderly.", "content": "Analyses of serum concentrations of apolipoproteins in the demented elderly. The aim was to analyze serum concentrations of apolipoproteins in the demented elderly to elucidate some biological markers related to dementia. Serum concentrations of apolipoproteins (AI, AII, B, CII, CIII, E) of patients with Alzheimer type dementia (AD), vascular dementia (VD) and controls (C) without dementia were compared among the three groups (AD, VD, C) and 15 correlation coefficients among the 6 measured items of apolipoproteins were analyzed. Serum levels of apo CII were significantly lower in AD group compared with VD or C groups. Serum levels of apo B, CIII and E were significantly lower in AD group compared with VD group, but not with C group. Analyses of correlations among the items of apolipoproteins revealed high significant correlations between apo E and/or apo CII and other items in AD group. These results suggest that apolipoproteins such as apo CII, as well as apo E, might be involved in the pathogenesis of AD."}
{"id": "10771562", "title": "[Sneddon syndrome: vasculitis or thrombotic disorder?].", "content": "[Sneddon syndrome: vasculitis or thrombotic disorder?]. Livedo reticularis generalisata (LR) in combination with affection of CNS is referred to as Sneddon's syndrome (SNS). Latest data suggest chronic progressive systemic disorder with occlusion of small and medium sized vessels (e.g., cutis, brain, kidneys, heart, eyes). No conclusive etiology is known, though there are correlations to the antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic secondary vasculitis and coagulopathies. Hereditary and toxic factors seem to play a role in pathogenesis in some cases. Diagnostic procedure and clinical course of a 56-year-old woman with dementia and hemiparesis proceeded by LR is reported. MRI-, SPECT- and TCD-findings were congruent with diffuse ischemic lesions of the brain due to affection of small- and medium-sized vessels. Histopathological specimens of the brain, meninges and cutis were non diagnostic. Some laboratory findings suggested vasculitis as an underlying cause. LR improved under immunosuppressive therapy with prednisolone and azathioprin. SNS does not seem to be a nosological entity. A differentiation between primary (idiopathic) and secondary SNS is useful for different therapeutical approaches."}
{"id": "10768169", "title": "One-year follow-up of neuropsychology, MRI, rCBF and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) in cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "One-year follow-up of neuropsychology, MRI, rCBF and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) in cerebral microangiopathy. MRI shows lacunar infarctions (LI), deep white matter lesions (DWML) and atrophy in cerebral microangiopathy, which is said to lead to vascular dementia. In a first trial series on 57 patients with confirmed pure cerebral microangiopathy (without concomitant macroangiopathy), neuropsychological impairment and (where present) brain atrophy correlated with decreased rCBF and rMRGlu. LI and DWML did not correlate with either neuropsychological impairment or decreased rCBF/rMRGlu. This study was done one year later to detect changes in any of the study parameters. 26 patients were re-examined for rCBF, rMRGlu, LI, DWML, atrophy and neuropsychological performance (7 cognitive, 3 mnestic, 4 attentiveness tests). Using a special head holder for exact repositioning, rCBF (SPECT) and rMRGlu (PET) were measured and imaged slice by slice. White matter/cortex were quantified using MRI-defined ROIs. After one year the patients did not show significant decreases in rCBF or rMRGlu either in cortex or in white matter (p > 0.05), nor did any patient show LI, DWML or atrophy changes on MRI. There were no significant neuropsychological decreases (p > 0.05). Cerebral microangiopathy ought to show progressive neuropsychological, functional (rCBF, rMRGlu) and morphological deterioration over periods > 1 year. It is unlikely that direct cortical damage (e.g., incomplete infarction) is responsible for neuropsychological impairment since one-year follow-up of our patients revealed no progression of brain atrophy or any other cortical damage."}
{"id": "10768168", "title": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow: a fractal approach.", "content": "Heterogeneity of cerebral blood flow: a fractal approach. We demonstrate the heterogeneity of regional cerebral blood flow using a fractal approach and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Tc-99m-labelled ethylcysteine dimer was injected intravenously in 10 healthy controls and in 10 patients with dementia of frontal lobe type. The head was imaged with a gamma camera and transaxial, sagittal and coronal slices were reconstructed. Two hundred fifty-six symmetrical regions of interest (ROIs) were drawn onto each hemisphere of functioning brain matter. Fractal analysis was used to examine the spatial heterogeneity of blood flow as a function of the number of ROIs. Relative dispersion (= coefficient of variation of the regional flows) was fractal-like in healthy subjects and could be characterized by a fractal dimension of 1.17 +/- 0.05 (mean +/- SD) for the left hemisphere and 1.15 +/- 0.04 for the right hemisphere, respectively. The fractal dimension of 1.0 reflects completely homogeneous blood flow and 1.5 indicates a random blood flow distribution. Patients with dementia of frontal lobe type had a significantly lower fractal dimension of 1.04 +/- 0.03 than in healthy controls. Within the limits of spatial resolution of SPECT, the heterogeneity of brain blood flow is well characterized by a fractal dimension. Fractal analysis may help brain scientists to assess age-, sex- and laterality-related anatomic and physiological changes of brain blood flow and possibly to improve precision of diagnostic information available for patient care."}
{"id": "10765046", "title": "A single-photon emission computed tomography imaging study of driving impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A single-photon emission computed tomography imaging study of driving impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used in this study to examine the neurophysiologic basis of driving impairment in 79 subjects with dementia. Driving impairment, as measured by caregiver ratings, was significantly related to regional reduction of right hemisphere cortical perfusion on SPECT, particularly in the temporo-occipital area. With increased severity of driving impairment, frontal cortical perfusion was also reduced. Clock drawing was more significantly related to driving impairment than the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Driving impairment in Alzheimer's disease is related to changes in cortical function which vary according to the severity of the disease. Cognitive tests of visuoperceptual and executive functions may be more useful screening tools for identifying those at greatest risk for driving problems than examinations like the MMSE that are weighted toward left-hemisphere-based verbal tasks."}
{"id": "10723753", "title": "[Clinical study of cerebral blood flow in unilateral chronic subdural hematoma measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT].", "content": "[Clinical study of cerebral blood flow in unilateral chronic subdural hematoma measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT]. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT before operation was studied in 60 patients with unilateral chronic subdural hematoma. The regional CBF was measured in 26 regions of the fronto-occipital 10 cortices, putamen, thalamus and cerebellar hemisphere on both sides. Sixty cases with unilateral chronic subdural hematoma were classified into four groups on the basis of clinical symptoms: 17 cases with headache (headache group), 34 cases with hemiparesis (hemiparesis group) and 9 cases with consciousness disturbance or dementia (consciousness disturbance group), and into three groups on the basis of the degree of midline brain shift on MRI: 7 cases of mild shift group, 24 cases of moderate shift group and 29 cases of severe shift group. The average CBF in 60 patients in each region indicated that the regional CBF was reduced in frontal, occipital cortices and cerebellum on the non-hematoma side, and in putamen and thalamus on the hematoma side. In the headache group, the regional CBF reduction on the non-hematoma side was found in only frontal and occipital cortices compared with the corresponding regions on the hematoma side. In the hemiparesis group, the regional CBF was reduced in frontal and occipital cortices on the non-hematoma side and in putamen and thalamus on the hematoma side. The part of CBF reduction in both hemispheres was also noted in the hemiparesis group. In the consciousness disturbance group, the CBF reduction was markedly noted in whole brain. The CBF reductions in frontal and occipital cortices on the non-hematoma side and in putamen, thalamus and cerebellum on the hematoma side was not mutually related with the degree of midline brain shift. We concluded that the disturbance of CBF in chronic subdural hematoma was started from frontal and occipital cortices on the non-hematoma side observed in the headache group, and which was extended to putamen and thalamus on the hematoma side and a part of both hemispheres observed in the hemiparesis group. And such disturbance was finally observed as the CBF reductions in whole brain in the consciousness disturbance group."}
{"id": "10723172", "title": "[Neuroimaging of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging of frontotemporal dementia]. With the development of neuroimaging, frontal lobe atrophy has been demonstrated with increased frequency, first with structural studies (computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging), then with functional images (Single photon emission computed tomography and Positron emission tomography)."}
{"id": "10717409", "title": "The correlation between P300 alterations and regional cerebral blood flow in non-demented Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The correlation between P300 alterations and regional cerebral blood flow in non-demented Parkinson's disease. P300 was evoked by a visual oddball and an S1-S2 task in 22 non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients (13 in the early stage, nine in the late stage) and 18 normal controls. Reaction time was also measured. All patients undertook the (99)Tc-ECD SPECT examination. Quantitative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was obtained by overlying SPECT image on the 3D-magnetic resonance image. In the PD patients in the late stage, P300 latency to S2-same and reaction time were significantly prolonged, while rCBF at bilateral frontal, temporal, and the right parietal lobes was decreased. P300 latency to S2-same was significantly correlated with the rCBF at bilateral temporal lobes. Reaction time was significantly correlated with the rCBF at the right frontal and parietal lobes, as well as the temporal and occipital lobes. The results suggest that P300 changes in non-demented PD in the late stage could be related to the temporal lobe dysfunction."}
{"id": "10714889", "title": "Evaluation of Z-(R,R)-IQNP for the potential imaging of m2 mAChR rich regions of the brain and heart.", "content": "Evaluation of Z-(R,R)-IQNP for the potential imaging of m2 mAChR rich regions of the brain and heart. Alterations in the function or density of the m2 muscarinic (mAChR) subtype have been postulated to play an important role in various dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. The ability to image and quantify the m2 mAChR subtype is of importance for a better understanding of the m2 subtype function in various dementias. Z-(R)-1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-y (R)-alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo-1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetate (Z-(R,R)-IQNP) has demonstrated significant uptake in cerebral regions that contain a high concentration of m2 mAChR subtype in addition to heart tissue. The present study was undertaken to determine if the uptake of Z-(R,R)-IQNP in these regions is a receptor mediated process and to identify the radiospecies responsible for binding at the receptor site. A blocking study demonstrated cerebral and cardiac levels of activity were significantly reduced by pretreatment (2-3 mg/kg) of (R)-3-quinuclidinyl benzilate, dexetimide and scopolamine, established muscarinic antagonists. A direct comparison of the cerebral and cardiac uptake of [I-125]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP and [I-131]-E-(R,R)-IQNP (high uptake in ml, m4 rich mAChR cerebral regions) demonstrated Z-(R,R)-IQNP localized to a higher degree in cerebral and cardiac regions containing a high concentration of the m2 mAChR subtype as directly compared to E-(R,R)-IQNP. In addition, a study utilizing [I-123]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP, [I-131]-iododexetimide and [I-125]-R-3-quinuclidinyl S-4-iodobenzilate, Z-(R,R)-IQNP demonstrated significantly higher uptake and longer residence time in those regions which contain a high concentration of the m2 receptor subtype. Folch extraction of global brain and heart tissue at various times post injection of [I-125]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP demonstrated that approximately 80% of the activity was extracted in the lipid soluble fraction and identified as the parent ligand by TLC and HPLC analysis. These results demonstrate Z-(R,R)-IQNP has significant uptake, long residence time and high stability in cerebral and cardiac tissues containing high levels of the m2 mAChR subtype. These combined results strongly suggest that Z-(R,R)-IQNP is an attractive ligand for the in vivo imaging and evaluation of m2 rich cerebral and cardiac regions by SPECT."}
{"id": "10705939", "title": "SPECT in Alzheimer's disease: features associated with bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion.", "content": "SPECT in Alzheimer's disease: features associated with bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion. To investigate why bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion, the typical SPECT pattern of Alzheimer's disease (AD), occurs in some but not in all patients with probable AD. We reviewed the SPECT scans of 220 patients presenting with cognitive impairment. Among them, 104 patients fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable AD, 48 (32 women) with early onset (before age of 65) and 56 (40 women) with late onset of the symptoms. Dementia severity was assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination. The SPECT scans were classified by visual inspection blind to clinical diagnoses. Bilateral parietotemporal hypoperfusion was more frequent in patients with severe AD, in those with early onset of the symptoms, and in men. Duration of symptoms, type of gamma-camera or radiopharmaceutical agent used were not associated with this SPECT pattern. These findings may be useful in the clinical setting and point to heterogeneity of AD according to age at onset."}
{"id": "10698414", "title": "Anterior choroidal artery infarction presenting as a progressive cognitive deficit.", "content": "Anterior choroidal artery infarction presenting as a progressive cognitive deficit. The authors describe a patient in whom neuroimaging using Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT, F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (F-18 FDG) coincidence imaging, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified an anterior choroidal artery infarction. Neuroimaging played a critical role in confirming this diagnosis, because the patient had symptoms of progressive cognitive decline and satisfied the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT was performed using a triple-head gamma camera. F-18 FDG scanning was obtained 40 minutes after intravenous injection of 5 mCi F-18 FDG using a coincidence camera. A brain MRI scan was performed using a 1.5-Tesla scanner. Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT showed focal hypoperfusion to the right parahippocampal cortex. F-18 FDG coincidence imaging showed a more extensive reduction in glucose metabolism compared with SPECT. The MRI scan confirmed the presence of a small segmental choroidal artery infarction. The Tc-99m HMPAO and F-18 FDG scans were not consistent with AD. This case illustrates the value of the regional cerebral blood flow SPECT for evaluating memory impairment in the elderly. Decreased regional cerebral blood flow to the posterior temporoparietal region is consistent with AD, whereas regional cerebral blood flow diminution in a vascular territory is consistent with vascular dementia. In this case, the patient was clinically diagnosed with AD, and SPECT was performed to establish the baseline regional cerebral blood flow before the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil was administered. An infarction was diagnosed on the regional cerebral blood flow brain SPECT scan, which was later confirmed by MRI. Infarctions of the parahippocampal cortex may resuft in memory impairment, which can appear clinically similar to AD."}
{"id": "10695031", "title": "[Early manifestation of fronto-temporal dementia].", "content": "[Early manifestation of fronto-temporal dementia]. The term frontotemporal dementia is used to describe a primary degenerative form of dementia, which is characterized by typical clinical, neuropsychological, radiological and neuropathological features. Its onset is usually before the age of 65 years; manifestations before the age of 30 years have rarely been described. We report the case of a 22-year old man, who showed symptoms of behavioural disorder such as social retreat, lack of initiative, mental rigidity, progressive reduction of speech, and stereotyped behaviour. The neuropsychological examination revealed disorders of the executive functions. The cerebral MRI investigations showed bifrontal atrophies corresponding with hypoperfusion areas on the SPECT. Other investigations including EEG, evoked potentials, duplex ultrasonography, cerebral angiography, laboratory tests and cerebrospinal fluid were normal. In the present case report we discuss the clinical presentation of frontotemporal dementia with early onset."}
{"id": "10688104", "title": "Frontotemporal decreases in rCBF correlate with degree of dysnomia in primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Frontotemporal decreases in rCBF correlate with degree of dysnomia in primary progressive aphasia. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is an uncommon degenerative dementia characterized by gradual impairment of language function with initial sparing of the memory domain. Using semiquantitative 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) brain SPECT as a measure of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), we investigated the relationship between reduced 99mTc-HMPAO uptake and the severity of dysnomia in PPA. Seven right-handed patients with PPA had their dysnomia assessed by the Boston Naming Test (BNT), a subtest of the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination. Neuroimaging studies, including 99mTc-HMPAO brain SPECT, CT, and MRI, were performed. Correlational analysis between reduced rCBF and BNT was performed. Brain SPECT showed a reduction in 99mTc-HMPAO uptake involving the frontal and temporal lobes in all 7 patients. CT and MRI showed mild to moderate cerebral atrophy in 4 patients. Low scores on the BNT correlated with low frontotemporal 99mTc-HMPAO (Spearman r = 0.97, P = 0.004) in the 5 patients with left-hemisphere involvement. Decreased rCBF to the frontotemporal region characterized the cerebral abnormalities associated with PPA. The finding of focal rCBF abnormalities in the right hemisphere of 2 right-handed women corroborates that PPA symptoms may arise from a \"non-left-dominant\"-hemisphere degenerative process. Our results support the usefulness of rCBF SPECT imaging as a diagnostic aid in PPA."}
{"id": "10686471", "title": "Multiple cognitive impairments associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome: A form of progressive vascular dementia?", "content": "Multiple cognitive impairments associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome: A form of progressive vascular dementia?"}
{"id": "10678692", "title": "The nature and staging of attention dysfunction in early (minimal and mild) Alzheimer's disease: relationship to episodic and semantic memory impairment.", "content": "The nature and staging of attention dysfunction in early (minimal and mild) Alzheimer's disease: relationship to episodic and semantic memory impairment. The development of cholinergic therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has highlighted the importance of understanding the role of attentional deficits and the relationship between attention and memory in the earliest stages of the disease. Variability in the tasks used to examine aspects of attention, and in the disease severity, between studies makes it difficult to determine which aspects of attention are affected earliest in AD, and how attentional impairment is related to other cognitive modules. We tested 27 patients in the early stages of the disease on the basis of the MMSE (minimal 24-30 corresponding to minimal cognitive impairment, very mild or possible AD in other classifications; and mild 18-23) on a battery of attentional tests aimed to assess sustained, divided, and selective attention, plus tests of episodic memory, semantic memory, visuoperceptual and visuospatial function, and verbal short-term memory. Although the mildly demented group were impaired on all attentional tests, the minimally impaired group showed a preserved ability to sustain attention, and to divide attention based on a dual-task paradigm. The minimally demented group had particular problems with response inhibition and speed of attentional switching. Examination of the relationship between attention and other cognitive domains showed impaired episodic memory in all patients. Deficits in attention were more prevalent than deficits in semantic memory suggesting that they occur at an earlier stage and the two were partially independent. Impairment in visuoperceptual and visuospatial functions and verbal short-term memory were the least common. Although attention is impaired early in AD, 40% of our patients showed deficits in episodic memory alone, confirming that amnesia may be the only cognitive deficit in the earliest stages of sporadic AD."}
{"id": "10668700", "title": "Perfusion MRI detects rCBF abnormalities in early stages of HIV-cognitive motor complex.", "content": "Perfusion MRI detects rCBF abnormalities in early stages of HIV-cognitive motor complex. To evaluate patients with early HIV-cognitive motor complex (HIV-CMC) for possible regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) abnormalities on perfusion MRI (pMRI). Nuclear medicine techniques have demonstrated global and focal cerebral perfusion abnormalities in patients with HIV dementia. Ultrafast pMRI enables the measurement of rCBF throughout the brain without the need to apply radioactive tracers or ionizing radiation. pMRI was used to measure the rCBF in 19 patients with early stages of HIV-CMC and 15 healthy seronegative control subjects. The rCBF maps were registered to high-resolution anatomic MRI scans and transformed into Talairach space. Statistical analysis of the rCBF maps was performed with SPM96. Compared with the control subjects, the patients with HIV had statistically significantly decreased rCBF bilaterally in the inferior lateral frontal cortices (right: -15%, p < 0.002; left: -12%, p < 0.005) and in the inferior medial parietal brain region (-15%, p < 0.0009). In contrast, rCBF was increased bilaterally in the posterior inferior parietal white matter (right: +19%, p < 0.0001; left: + 17%, p < 0.001). Furthermore, rCBF abnormalities correlated significantly with clinical disease severity as measured by CD4 count, plasma viral load, Karnofsky score, and HIV dementia scale. Our results are consistent with previous findings from PET and SPECT studies. Furthermore, pMRI can detect rCBF abnormalities that correlate with disease severity in HIV-CMC. Because pMRI is more cost-effective, faster, and safer than nuclear medicine techniques for monitoring rCBF changes, pMRI may be more feasible for monitoring the effects of therapy for HIV-CMC."}
{"id": "10660231", "title": "Nurturing syndrome: a form of pathological bereavement with delusions in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Nurturing syndrome: a form of pathological bereavement with delusions in Alzheimer's disease. We report the history and neuroimaging profile of two patients, CS and KC who developed an unusual bereavement reaction with delusions following the deaths of their husbands. Their neuropsychological profiles met criteria for dementia of Alzheimer type. The delusions about their husbands' existence were persistent despite a considerable passage of time after their deaths. SPECT investigation showed reduction of blood flow in the frontal area in both patients when compared with demented controls and in particular a significant reduction in perfusion was observed in the right frontal regions. We argue that this significant reduction of blood flow in the right frontal area, in the context of severe cognitive deterioration, might be responsible for their delusional reaction to bereavement which we interpret as result of reality monitoring and episodic memory failure."}
{"id": "10647605", "title": "Single SPECT measures of cerebral cortical perfusion reflect time-index estimation of dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Single SPECT measures of cerebral cortical perfusion reflect time-index estimation of dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease. To determine the relationship between cerebral cortical blood flow loss and the temporal development of the dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD), SPECT was studied in a cross section of AD patients with a broad range of impairment. Thirty patients with a diagnosis of probable AD had their mini-mental state examination scores transformed into time-index values to give an estimation of dementia severity relative to the developmental time course. SPECT images were obtained using 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer and a 3-head camera. Cortical surface perfusion was analyzed, including modified Talairach standardization, to obtain cortical elements from the convexity (each representing about 0.25 cm2 at the surface, 6.6-mm cortical depth) referenced to the mean perfusion of the full greater cerebellar hemisphere. These element ratios were analyzed (individually and by averages of estimated Brodmann's areas and brain regions) using linear regression with the time-index value. For individual posterotemporal and inferoparietal Brodmann's areas (21, 22 and 39, 40, respectively) the correlation coefficients between cortical perfusion ratios and dementia severity ranged between -0.67 and -0.78 (P < 0.001). Perfusion ratios from these regions declined 2.5%-4.2% for each estimated year of progression. Prefrontal area perfusion showed less association with severity. Perfusion in primary cortical regions had no significant association with dementia severity. Cerebral cortical perfusion loss is temporally related to development of dementia. The spatial pattern of high, significant correlations between cortical perfusion and dementia severity shows a regional distribution that corresponds closely to the distribution of AD pathology described in autopsy studies."}
{"id": "10647604", "title": "Three brain SPECT region-of-interest templates in elderly people: normative values, hemispheric asymmetries, and a comparison of single- and multihead cameras.", "content": "Three brain SPECT region-of-interest templates in elderly people: normative values, hemispheric asymmetries, and a comparison of single- and multihead cameras. The purpose of this study was to generate anatomically guided region-of-interest (ROI) brain SPECT templates based on scans of elderly healthy volunteers. We describe normal tracer uptake and hemispheric asymmetries for each of 3 camera systems and compare these characteristics among systems. 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime SPECT scans were acquired from 28 elderly healthy volunteers (mean age [+/-SD], 70.3 +/- 6.5 y) on a single-head rotating gamma camera (n = 15) or on dual- (n = 18) or triple-head (n = 13) cameras. The average number of counts in each ROI was calculated and referenced to counts in a cerebellar ROI, providing semiquantitative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) ratios. For the templates and ROI map, base images of a healthy volunteer were obtained with each camera. Data from individuals scanned with 2 cameras on the same day (n = 15) were used to evaluate rCBF differences across cameras. For each camera, averaged SPECT templates were made using automated image registration. The base volunteer's T1-weighted MR image was converted to stereotactic space with dimensions similar to those of the SPECT templates, and 79 bilateral ROIs were defined. To obtain ROI rCBF ratios, we aligned individual images to their appropriate template and then to this modified MR image. The ROI coefficients of variation indicated that the fit of the ROIs was acceptable (0.07-0.35). Mean rCBF ratios ranged from 0.57 to 1.0, 0.67 to 1.01, and 0.63 to 1.00 for single-, dual-, and triple-head cameras, respectively. The cuneus, occipital cortex, occipital pole, middle temporal gyrus, and posterior middle frontal gyrus showed consistent hemispheric asymmetry (right side greater than left side in 83%-100% of individuals). Mean rCBF ratios did not differ between dual- and triple-head cameras, whereas the ratios for single- and dual-head cameras differed significantly (39 ROIs differed), even after smoothing and filtering the dual-head images to the level of the single-head images. The use of SPECT templates based on elderly healthy volunteers is an important feature of this technique because most available templates have used young individuals. Another important feature is the use of MR image-based ROIs. These procedures are versatile because they use more than 1 camera. They can easily be implemented in clinical and research settings to detect camera-specific, abnormal deviations in rCBF ROI ratios and asymmetry magnitudes in diseases associated with aging, such as stroke and dementia."}
{"id": "10645737", "title": "Hypofrontality and negative symptoms in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Hypofrontality and negative symptoms in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type. The purpose of the current study was to examine the relation between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and negative symptoms (NS) in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). Negative symptoms in neuropsychiatric disorders were associated with altered rCBF in frontal cortex. Twenty-five subjects with a diagnosis of DAT were administered the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale, the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and the Mini-Mental State Examination. The subjects were divided into two groups by means of a median split with regard to NS severity (high NS group, N = 12; low NS group, N = 13). Each patient underwent a single photon emission tomography scan using 99mTc-HMPAO at rest. Cortical and subcortical regions of interest were symmetrically defined in each hemisphere. Cortical-to-cerebellar perfusion ratios were established quantitatively using ADAC software. High NS group subjects had a significantly lower rCBF than low NS group subjects in the frontal cortex and cingulate gyrus (MANOVA: p = 0.022) as a result of differences in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally (right: F = 12.12, p = 0.002; left: F = 6.55, p = 0.02) and in the frontal cortex, mainly in the right hemisphere (right: F = 6.33, p = 0.02; left: F = 3.26, p = 0.08). For all the subjects (N = 25), there were negative correlations between the SANS total score and rCBF, most prominently in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally (right: r = -0.48, p <0.01; left: r = -0.49, p = 0.01). No significant correlation was found between rCBF in any of the regions of interest and either the Mini-Mental State Examination or the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression scores. This study indicates that decreased perfusion in the frontal cortex is associated with NS severity but not with measures of cognitive impairment or depressive symptoms in DAT patients. These results support the hypothesis that the frontal lobes may be involved in the cause of NS in DAT, and they underscore the importance of NS evaluation in neuroimaging studies."}
{"id": "10637407", "title": "Severe and persistent regressive behaviour in three elderly subjects without cognitive decline.", "content": "Severe and persistent regressive behaviour in three elderly subjects without cognitive decline. The appearance of regressive behaviours in the elderly is relatively common. Among these regressive attitudes, there is a relatively high frequency of situations which mimic dementia in the absence of demonstrable organic alterations that justify the presence of a neurodegenerative profile. These generally stem from a primary psychiatric disorder and are referred to as 'pseudodementia'. All these conditions, which are generally accompanied by a marked increase in dependency on the environment, are distinguished by the presence of cognitive impairment and behavioural traits typical of dementia but which are fully reversible on treatment of the primary psychiatric disorder. Here we describe three cases, characterized by their striking discrepancy between clinical profile, with pronounced behavioural alterations similar to dementia-related conduct disorders, culminating in almost complete dependency on the environment, and almost stably intact cognitive performance (assessed through the MMSE), over a mean observation period of approximately five years."}
{"id": "10786251", "title": "[Tomographic cerebral blood flow scanning in diagnosis of psychiatric disorders].", "content": "[Tomographic cerebral blood flow scanning in diagnosis of psychiatric disorders]. The paper summarises the role of tomographic cerebral blood flow SPECT scanning in psychiatric diagnostics, its' physical and radiopharmaceutical basis, pathological physiology of cerebrovascular circulation in psychiatric disorders and interpretation of cerebral blood flow scanning results by the clinician. Cerebral blood flow scanning is, to some extent, a functional equivalent of CT/MRI scanning. In psychiatry cerebral blood flow SPECT scanning's basic application is the differentiation of dementia and cognitive impairment, in particular Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal lobar degeneration and multi-infarct dementia. The other indications for brain SPECT scanning involve the organic brain lesions and medico-legal diagnostics, including the sequelae of cranio-cerebral trauma. Contraindications and economical aspects are underlined."}
{"id": "10662962", "title": "The role of emission tomography in dementia.", "content": "The role of emission tomography in dementia. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPET) offer the opportunity to improve a diagnosis of dementia by providing regional functional measurements, which can be used to substantiate the clinical judgement. Further progress in the differential diagnosis among degenerative dementias is expected from pathological confirmation in the follow-up of patients evaluated with neuroimaging methods. A prospective multi-center cohort study of patients with possible or probable Alzheimer's disease mostly with presenile onset, showed impairment of brain glucose metabolism in temporoparietal or frontal association areas, as measured with PET. This was associated significantly with dementia severity, clinical classification, presence of multiple cognitive deficits, and history of progression. In addition, prospective longitudinal analysis showed a significant association between initial metabolic impairment (metabolic ratio = 0.80) and subsequent clinical deterioration. In patients with mild cognitive deficits at entry, the risk of deterioration was up to 4.7-times higher if metabolism was severely impaired than with mild or absent metabolic impairment. In the future, it might be possible to use different tracers to measure neurotransmitter release or receptor function. It may also be possible to scan the patient while performing cognitive tasks to examine changes in functional brain activity during pharmacological treatments."}
{"id": "10654093", "title": "Early diagnosis of Alzheimer dementia based on clinical and biological factors.", "content": "Early diagnosis of Alzheimer dementia based on clinical and biological factors. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is common in elderly individuals; it causes distress for the patients and their relatives as well as large costs for the society. With the advent of symptomatic treatment at present and probable etiology-based cures in the future, it will be possible to relieve and put an end to these negative effects. Therefore, it is necessary to diagnose the disease as early as possible. In this review, we briefly summarize the state-of-the-art concerning various available clinical and biochemical methods for identifying AD. Increasing age, heritage, and presence of ApoE e4 allele have been confirmed as risk factors for AD as well as some putative factors (e.g., low education, hypertension, hypotension) based on epidemiological recent research. Selective impairment of episodic memory has been found to be a preclinical marker for future development of AD based on convergent data from asymptomatic AD-related mutation carriers, longitudinal studies of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and epidemiological studies of incident AD cases. Neurophysiological methods are inexpensive and useful for the identification of changes in brain dysfunction in AD and new promising methods are under development. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRT), structural measurements of brain atrophy and specific brain structures such as the hippocampus have been reported to detect dementia development early in the course of disease. Similarly, functional measurements of brain activity (e.g., blood flow) have revealed that hypometabolism in bilateral parietotemporal brain areas early in the disease course. Finally, biochemical studies have demonstrated that certain proteins (e.g., tau the A beta 1-42/43 metabolite of the amyloid precursor protein) may be associated with the disease process in AD, although the specificity of these markers remains to be established. It is concluded that still no single marker of AD exists, which makes it necessary to rely on data from multiple sources in order to arrive at the best possible diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "10645327", "title": "Follow-up study of depression in the elderly. Clinical and SPECT data.", "content": "Follow-up study of depression in the elderly. Clinical and SPECT data. Imaging studies in depression of the elderly are often small and highly selective. To investigate a large group of elderly depressed patients in order to assess changes in clinical, imaging and neuropsychological variables at follow-up. Patients (n = 175, age range 65-91 years) with clinical depression were identified from consecutive local referrals. Clinical interviews, neuropsychological tests and SPECT scans were carried out at referral and at two-year follow-up. Of 84 re-examined patients, 46.5% were well, 9.5% were ill, 33% partially recovered and 11% had developed dementia. Duration of illness before index assessment was the only factor to predict outcome. Thirty-nine patients could be scanned and followed up. There were no differences between patients with good or poor depressive outcome on SPECT. Ten clinically improved patients could be re-examined with SPECT. There were relative increases in right cingulate gyrus and right cerebellum at follow-up. The patients group was comparable with other studies showing high levels of residual depressive symptoms. Activity changes in limbic cortex are implicated in depression of old age."}
{"id": "10637936", "title": "Diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease. Current criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease require that the patient also fulfils the criteria for dementia. This means inevitably that the disease is well-established. As treatments become available there is an important need for early diagnosis. There are two components to diagnosis; the recognition that cognitive performance is below that which would be anticipated for the individual and secondly to relate this to a specific disease process. Research studies need to identify the very earliest changes i.e. before symptoms commence. Such studies have focused on at risk populations either by virtue of age or a positive family history. Both groups have demonstrated that memory is the salient early feature, particularly verbal memory, impairment of which may precede overt symptoms by many years. The other major approach has been that of neuroimaging. Group studies of at risk individuals, for example for those who carry an apoE4 allele, have shown relative biparietal, bitemporal hypometabolism in the at risk group. Similarly, structural neuroimaging may show hippocampal atrophy at an early stage. Serial studies to determine rate of change, may be more valuable than single cross-sectional studies. Recent techniques of positional matching and registration allow precise quantitation of rates of cerebral atrophy which may be useful in early diagnosis."}
{"id": "10637855", "title": "[Lewy bodies dementia: new data for the understanding of neuroimaging].", "content": "[Lewy bodies dementia: new data for the understanding of neuroimaging]. The criteria for diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) do not include neuroimaging, and few reports have been published on this. To report our observations of cerebral CAT and MR studies in 25 patients with probable DLB. Measurement of the surface of the cerebral lobes and the hippocampal region in two axial sections on CAT and MR and three coronal sections on MR. Our controls were 27 persons with probable Alzheimer's disease and 30 healthy persons of the same age group. The size of the frontal, parietal and temporal lobes in DLB is intermediate between the values found in Alzheimer's disease and those found in asymptomatic persons, but without significant differences from these. Atrophy of the hippocampal region seen in DLB is significant as compared with healthy persons, but not when compared with those with Alzheimer's disease, in whom it was greater still. In the patients in whom DLB was still not an advanced stage, there was no atrophy of the occipital lobes, in spite of other observers having found hypoactivity of these lobes on SPECT and PET. In the sample studied, structural imaging techniques were not useful in the diagnosis of DLB."}
{"id": "10619205", "title": "Dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Dementia with Lewy bodies. The aim of this paper is to summarise recent clinical and research findings with regard to dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). A literature review (Medline) was carried out, as well as a review of reports of recent DLB symposia of international meetings and of other relevant papers and data known to the authors. Dementia with Lewy bodies, as the disorder should be known, is the second commonest form of degenerative dementia, accounting for up to 20% cases in the elderly. It is characterised by fluctuating cognitive impairment, spontaneous parkinsonism and recurrent visual hallucinations. Consensus clinical and neuropathological criteria have been published. The clinical criteria have been shown to have high specificity, but may still lack sensitivity. Recognition of DLB is clinically important in view of the high incidence (60%) of adverse and life-threatening reaction to antipsychotics, the difference in prognosis and, possibly, the differential treatment response to cholinergic therapy. Neuroimaging changes have not been well described in DLB but some show promise as potential markers to differentiate DLB from AD. These include relative preservation of temporal lobe structures on magnetic resonance imaging and loss of pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic markers on single photon emission tomography. Dementia with Lewy bodies is a common cause of cognitive impairment in late life which appears to be clinically and neuropathologically distinct from AD. All clinicians should be aware of the typical triad of clinical features (fluctuating cognitive impairment, visual hallucinations and parkinsonism) which characterise the disorder and either avoid antipsychotics or prescribe them with extreme caution in such patients. Further research is likely to result in advances in diagnostic methods and therapeutics in the near future."}
{"id": "10616866", "title": "Cerebral blood flow correlates of higher brain dysfunctions in corticobasal degeneration.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow correlates of higher brain dysfunctions in corticobasal degeneration. To investigate clinicoanatomic correlations of higher brain dysfunctions in corticobasal degeneration, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was semiquantitatively measured with single-photon emission computed tomography in 9 patients with corticobasal degeneration and 12 age-matched control subjects. The patients showed significant reductions of relative tracer uptake in widespread cortical areas, as well as the basal ganglia and thalamus. Interhemispheric difference of hypoperfusion was significant in the sensorimotor and posterior parietal cortices. Asymmetric limb apraxia and cortical sensory disturbance corresponded to either sensorimotor cortical or posterior parietal cortical hypoperfusion or both. Compared with the patients without dementia, those with dementia showed significant reductions of relative rCBF in the inferior prefrontal region in the more affected hemisphere. The unique correlation of cortical signs with regional hypoperfusion may be useful in distinguishing between corticobasal degeneration and other neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "10614161", "title": "[Therapeutic case of general paresis manifested by bradykinesia and recent memory loss].", "content": "[Therapeutic case of general paresis manifested by bradykinesia and recent memory loss]. We reported a 32-year-old man with general paresis. He showed slowly progressive bradykinesia and recent memory loss. Argyll Robertson pupils were not present. Muscle strength and sensations were normal except for slight vibratory disturbance. Tendon reflexes were slightly exaggerated. MMSE, HDS-R and WAIS-R scores showed the intellectual impairment. His laboratory investigations revealed elevated both TPHA and FTA-ABS titers in the serum and the CSF. The CSF contained leukocytosis (25/mm3) and protein 80 mg/dl. Cranial CT and MRI demonstrated diffuse cortical atrophy. SPECT revealed marked reduction of the blood flow in bilateral cerebral hemisphere. Cerebral angiography revealed moderate stenosis of the major vessels. The diagnosis of neurosyphilis (general paresis) was made and the treatment of intravenous benzyl penicillin potassium 24 million units per day was started. After 6 weeks of the treatment, the clinical signs (includes MMSE, HDS-R and WAIS-R scores) and the findings of SPECT and cerebral angiography showed improvement. Although the cell count and protein in the CSF became decreased, the titers of TPHA and FTA-ABS in the serum and the CSF were not decreased. Neurosyphilis should always be considered in a etiologically unknown case with bradykinesia and dementia."}
{"id": "10609687", "title": "Role of functional brain imaging in the evaluation of vascular dementia.", "content": "Role of functional brain imaging in the evaluation of vascular dementia. There are various types of underlying damage to tissue and vessels in vascular dementia, including (1) single or multiple infarcts that involve association and limbic cortices, (2) small subcortical infarcts disrupting cortico-subcortical circuits, and (3) white matter lesions. The clinical picture of vascular dementia varies, and the role of functional brain imaging of cerebral blood flow and metabolism would be expected to be different among subtypes of vascular dementia. The role and value of functional brain imaging is limited for cortical infarcts; it is very valuable in assessing the impact on cortical function for small subcortical infarcts; and it is probably useful for evaluating white matter lesions, but this needs to be determined in further studies. At least in research of vascular dementia, functional brain imaging criteria should be included for proper patient selection. Careful studies using functional imaging tools in a well-characterized patient population will be needed."}
{"id": "10607969", "title": "Decreased awareness of cognitive deficits in patients with mild dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Decreased awareness of cognitive deficits in patients with mild dementia of the Alzheimer type. To study the unawareness of cognitive deficits in patients with mild dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). Retrospective study. We surveyed the medical records of outpatients meeting the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable DAT who were able to complete the Cognitive Difficulties Scale (CDS) and had a close informant relative (IR) who could complete the family form of the same questionnaire. A department of neurology in a general teaching hospital. Eighty-eight patients, aged 73.2+/-8.6 years with a mean MMSE score of 22.5+/-3.2. Fifty-two of the 88 patients had a follow-up examination after a mean interval of 21 months. Awareness of cognitive deficits was mainly assessed as the difference between the scores on the CDS completed by the IR and the patient (Index of Unawareness, IU). Two secondary assessments of unawareness were performed: (1) an assessment by the clinician on the basis of the patient's answers to questions probing the awareness of memory deficits; (2) an evaluation by the IR of the frequency of behavioural manifestations of unawareness in everyday life. SPECT was performed in 78 patients to study the relationship between unawareness and the topography of perfusion deficits. Awareness of the cognitive deficits varied greatly between patients, according to the assessment method used and the stage of progression of the disease. Most patients with mild DAT were cognitively aware of their cognitive deficits but failed to appraise their severity and their consequences in everyday life. Decreased awareness was positively correlated with age and perfusion deficits in the frontal regions and negatively with the anxious symptomatology. However, the main correlate of unawareness was apathy. The nature of unawareness of cognitive deficits appeared to be more dimensional than categorical. In patients with mild dementia, decreased awareness appeared to be more related to affective disturbances, especially to emotional deficit or apathy, than to cognitive deficits."}
{"id": "10593700", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in late-life depression and dementia.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and metabolism in late-life depression and dementia. Late-life depression (LLD) is characterized by abnormalities in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate (CMR) for glucose. Unlike younger adults with major depression, global cortical CBF and CMR reductions have been reported in LLD. Patients with LLD are also characterized by topographic abnormalities, most commonly involving selective prefrontal, superior temporal, and anterior parietal cortex. The fate of these abnormalities with response to antidepressant treatment is highly uncertain, and heterogeneous findings have been reported in younger samples with major depression. The limited data in LLD suggest that response to electroconvulsive therapy or antidepressant medications does not involve reversal of baseline abnormalities but rather accentuation of prefrontal deficits. At minimum, these paradoxical findings suggest that abnormalities in CBF and CMR may be persistent in LLD and a trait characteristic. Characteristic profiles of CBF and CMR abnormalities have also been demonstrated in samples with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other types of dementia. Functional imaging has shown sensitivity to disease severity and progression. Nonetheless, there is limited information regarding the sensitivity and specificity of the functional imaging modalities in the differential diagnosis of dementias. At present, the evidence does not support the use of functional imaging in isolation as a diagnostic tool. Rather, these imaging modalities may be considered as an adjunct to careful clinical assessment, either to improve diagnosis in early cases or to assist in subtyping difficult cases."}
{"id": "10559570", "title": "A follow-up study of the family with the Swedish APP 670/671 Alzheimer's disease mutation.", "content": "A follow-up study of the family with the Swedish APP 670/671 Alzheimer's disease mutation. To study the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) at a very early stage and to evaluate clinical markers of presymptomatic AD. Longitudinal study at a university hospital. A Swedish family harboring a double mutation at codons 670/671 of the APP gene on chromosome 21 was followed longitudinally for 3 years. Both mutation carriers and noncarriers participated. Results from clinical investigations, electroencephalography, neuropsychological and neuroradiological examinations including magnetic resonance imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography were assessed and compared on two or more occasions. During follow-up, 1 initially asymptomatic mutation carrier who was near the expected age of onset for this family, developed cognitive symptoms, and at the end of the follow-up fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for AD. One mutation carrier with cognitive symptoms at the first examination showed clinical deterioration and was diagnosed with AD. One demented mutation carrier died and was shown to have typical AD neuropathology at autopsy. The two remaining asymptomatic mutation carriers, as well as all the noncarriers were asymptomatic. These mutation carriers who were near the expected age of onset of AD but without clinical signs of the disease, did not show changes in either electrophysiological parameters or volumes of the temporal lobes. However, in these 2 individuals the blood flow in the temporal lobe showed intermediate values between the symptomatic mutation carriers and healthy noncarriers. Two neuropsychological tests showed a deterioration that paralleled clinical symptoms in 1 of the mutation carriers who was close to the expected age of onset and who at the end of the follow-up had clinical signs of AD. In the same subject, brain glucose metabolism was pathologically reduced in the temporal lobes before other clinical symptoms were obvious. In this familial form of AD a reduced temporal lobe glucose metabolism was indicative of AD before the expected clinical onset. Reduced glucose metabolism even preceded the development of subjective or objective cognitive dysfunction and might therefore serve as a clinical marker for AD before the onset of clinical symptoms. Reduced cerebral blood flow in the temporal lobes and cognitive deterioration paralleled the clinical decline in the early stage of the disease. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel"}
{"id": "10559568", "title": "Behavioral and psychological symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Relation between apathy and regional cerebral perfusion.", "content": "Behavioral and psychological symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Relation between apathy and regional cerebral perfusion. Fundamental and therapeutic research in Alzheimer's disease (AD) focused for a long time exclusively on cognitive aspects. However, AD also frequently involves complex disorders of affect and behavior, which are currently grouped under the heading 'behavioral and psychological signs and symptoms of dementia' (BPSSD). Several rating tools have been developed over the years on the basis of a variety of source data. Some are derived from psychiatric practise or have specifically been developed for dementia, such as the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). In this study we prospectively used the NPI to examine BPSSD. Sixty-three French patients (mean age 74.7 years, SD 7.9) with a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score higher than 10 were examined. BPPSD were detected by NPI in 95. 2% of the patients. Anxiety was the most common abnormality (65.1%), followed by apathy and dysphoria (58.7%). The highest frequency x severity NPI score was observed for apathy. In order to identify the relationship between regional cerebral perfusion and apathy, 20 of these AD patients underwent a technetium-99m-bicisate SPECT protocol within the same week as the NPI evaluation. The mean age of this population was 74.4 years (SD 5.3) and the mean MMSE score was 21 (SD 4.1). The apathy NPI score was correlated with right cingulate deficit whereas the highest correlation for the MMSE was with the left temporoparietal area. This stresses the interest to focus on SPECT imaging of AD patients not only in the posterior areas. CopyrightCopyright 1999S.KargerAG,Basel"}
{"id": "10559564", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy variants of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy variants of Alzheimer's disease. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) was first described by Benson in 1988 and, since then, has been regarded as a variant of Alzheimer's disease. We present 2 patients with symptoms suggestive of PCA and 2 patients with apraxia as the initial manifestation. Primary motor and sensory modalities were intact. Mild memory impairment was present early in the course of the disease and gradually worsened. Parieto-occipital atrophy was evident on brain MRI. HMPAO-SPECT demonstrated parieto-occipital hypoperfusion significantly different from the temporoparietal hypoperfusion usually described in senile dementia of the Alzheimer type. These findings suggest that HMPAO-SPECT can help in diagnosing atypical variants of Alzheimer's disease. We suggest that PCA represents two clinically related behavioral phenotypes: PCA with predominantly apraxia manifestations and PCA with predominantly visuospatial disturbances. Copyrightz1999S.KargerAG,Basel"}
{"id": "10553987", "title": "FTDP-17: an early-onset phenotype with parkinsonism and epileptic seizures caused by a novel mutation.", "content": "FTDP-17: an early-onset phenotype with parkinsonism and epileptic seizures caused by a novel mutation. Recently, mutations in the tau gene on chromosome 17 were found causative for autosomal dominantly inherited frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism (FTDP-17). We describe a family carrying a missense mutation at nucleotide 1137 C --> T, resulting in the amino acid substitution P301S. Methods of investigations include clinical, electrophysiological, and imaging techniques. This kindred presents with a novel phenotype characterized by an early onset of rapidly progressive frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism in combination with epileptic seizures. We define the dopaminergic deficits as being predominantly presynaptic by the use of single-photon emission computed tomography with a dopamine transporter ligand. The association of this early-onset phenotype with P301S mutation is not entirely consistent with current criteria for the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementias and may encourage the search for tau mutations in diseases similar but not identical to FTDP-17. Also, the change from proline to serine suggests that this mutation might contribute to tau hyperphosphorylation."}
{"id": "10553590", "title": "[A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease exhibiting athetosis in the early stage].", "content": "[A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease exhibiting athetosis in the early stage]. A 68-year-old man was hospitalized on 24 June, 1998 because of visual and gait disturbance. A month before admission, he had been aware of blurred or double vision while watching TV. A few days later, he developed dysphagia and clumsiness in the fingers. His gait became unstable and he exhibited restless finger movements. His shoulders and trunk showed torsion while walking. On admission, he became disoriented and showed rigidity in the legs and athetosis in the bilateral fingers. Routine laboratory findings, thyroid function data, and the serum levels of vitamin B1, B12, Cu, and ceruloplasmin were within the normal ranges. Periodic synchronous discharges (PSD) were observed on electroencephalography. MRI showed T2-high intensity and atrophy of the bilateral caudate nucleus and putamen in addition to the cerebral cortex. 99mTc-ECD-SPECT showed a decrease of local blood flow in the bilateral frontal, right temporal, and bilateral parietal lobes and bilateral thalami. Athetosis became exacerbated and was observed for a month, overlapping with myoclonus. We diagnosed the patient as having CJD because of progressive dementia, myoclonus and PSD. Analysis of the prion protein revealed that codon 129 was Met/Met and codon 219 Glu/Glu by DNA sequences. The patient developed akinetic mutism and rigid contracture, and died of pneumonia on 5 September, 1998. Because athetosis is thought to involve the bilateral caudate nucleus, putamen and thalamus, the findings of diagnostic imaging in this patient might be relative to the clinical symptoms."}
{"id": "10548999", "title": "[CADASIL. Clinical aspects, neuroradiology, genetics and diagnosis].", "content": "[CADASIL. Clinical aspects, neuroradiology, genetics and diagnosis]. Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary cerebral vasculopathy progressing to subcortical dementia, caused by multiple lacunar infarcts and ischemic white matter degeneration. Migraine with aura, epileptic seizures and affective disorders are frequent additional symptoms of CADASIL. The causative mutations of the Notch3 gene are located on chromosome 19p13.1. There is complete penetrance of this disorder, although individual expression of symptoms may vary. Manifestation of CADASIL is usually in the 3rd decade, but some individuals remain asymptomatic close to the age of 60. MRI displays a marked leukoencephalopathy in affected individuals as early as in the age of 20. Frontal and subcortical hypoperfusion in demented individuals was demonstrated by SPECT-studies. The prevalence of CADASIL is still not known. To date there is no causative therapy."}
{"id": "10547980", "title": "[Assessment of brain cell function using 123I-IMP SPECT of cerebral blood flow and visual evoked potential by photic stimulation in normal and demented elderly subjects].", "content": "[Assessment of brain cell function using 123I-IMP SPECT of cerebral blood flow and visual evoked potential by photic stimulation in normal and demented elderly subjects]. Cerebral blood flow was quantitatively measured using 123I-IMP SPECT by photic stimulation and visual evoked potential (VEPs) in normal and dementia subjects: 8 with Alzheimer-type dementia, 9 with cerebrovascular dementia and 7 normal elderly subjects were divided into the three groups based on the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) grade: Group I (CDR 0), Group II (CDR 0.5-1), Group III (CDR 2-3). The 123I-IMP SPECT measurement was conducted at rest with the eyes closed and also during photic stimulation. VEPs were measured simultaneously. The results reveal prolongation of the P2 latency of the VEPs prolonged in accordance with the increasing severity of the dementia, and quantitative cerebral blood flow was lower in Group II and Group III than in Group I at rest, while during photic stimulation it significantly increased in Group I and II, but showed no change in Group III. The results suggest that quantitative measurement of cerebral blood flow using 123I-IMP SPECT by photic stimulation may enable more detailed assessment of brain cell function."}
{"id": "10528871", "title": "SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO in subjects with HIV infection: cognitive dysfunction correlates with high uptake.", "content": "SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO in subjects with HIV infection: cognitive dysfunction correlates with high uptake. We prospectively studied a cohort of 25 HIV-1 infected individuals with no clinical signs of encephalopathy with 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT. The findings were correlated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), neuropsychological testing and clinical staging aiming at the early diagnosis of HIV encephalopathy by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). A total of 25 matched seronegative controls were subject to neuropsychological testing only. A total of 24 patients and controls were monitored for 6-46 months (mean and median 26 months). No patients developed AIDS dementia complex during the study; 3 patients developed minimal symptoms (MSK classification stage 0.5). There was a significant decline in 99mTc-HMPAO uptake over time and neuropsychological abnormalities progressed. Unexpectedly, there was a correlation of high cortical and subcortical 99mTc-HMPAO uptake and low performance in cognitive dysfunction tests, indicating a possible inflammatory reaction in the brain with increased blood flow due to HIV infection. We conclude that, in non-demented HIV-infected individuals, both the 99mTc-HMPAO uptake and functional level slowly decrease over time, but the regional cerebral blood flow decrease could be masked by a direct HIV-induced inflammatory reaction in the brain, which gives a 99mTc-HMPAO hyperfixation."}
{"id": "10510805", "title": "[Brain SPECT using Tc-99m-bicisate (ECD) in rapidly progressive dementia syndrome].", "content": "[Brain SPECT using Tc-99m-bicisate (ECD) in rapidly progressive dementia syndrome]. We present a 61-year-old male patient with progressive dementia. A brain SPECT with Tc-99m-bicisate was performed for confirmation of clinically suspected Alzheimer-dementia. At the time of the SPECT-investigation marked apraxia and aphasia besides severe dementia were present. Electrophysiological as well as anatomical neuroimaging findings showed non-diagnostic alterations. SPECT revealed distinct perfusion defects, which made Alzheimer Dementia unlikely. The further course of the patient was determined by rapidly progressive deterioration with development of akinetic mutism. Thereafter, increased levels of neuron-specific enolase as well as 14-3-3 proteins were found in the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF). The patient finally died with signs of cerebral decortication. Due to the clinical course and the CSF-findings the patient's final diagnosis was Creutzfeldt-Jakob-disease, nevertheless no autopsy was performed. The presented case report underscores the clinical utility of perfusion brain SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementias."}
{"id": "10482382", "title": "Validation of the cerebellum as a reference region for SPECT quantification in patients suffering from dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Validation of the cerebellum as a reference region for SPECT quantification in patients suffering from dementia of the Alzheimer type. In longitudinal brain studies of dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), the cerebellum is often used as a reference region for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) quantification, which assumes no significant regional influence of physiological fluctuations or pathology. With the use of absolute quantification in DAT patients, reproducibility of cerebellar uptake of technetium-99m-d,l-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) was tested and compared with the mean absolute cerebellar tracer uptake value in DAT patients and healthy control subjects. In 13 DAT patients SPECT studies were repeated within 2 weeks to assess reproducibility of cerebellar regional brain uptake (rBU). With calibrated point sources as scaling factors, cerebellar activity was expressed as rBU of HMPAO per cm3 brain tissue in percent of the injected lipophilic dose of 740 MBq (20 mCi). Also, mean cerebellar rBU in patients suffering from DAT was calculated and compared with a previously established database obtained in healthy volunteers. Repeated SPECT studies within a 2-week interval in clinically stable patients resulted in a mean rBU increase of 6.8 +/- 10.3% in the second SPECT study as compared with the first. A similar shift was previously reported in healthy volunteers. Mean cortical cerebellar rBU values in DAT patients and in the healthy reference population concurred, after cumulative corrections for body surface and for a mean brain volume of 1350 ml (obtained in healthy control subjects), showing respective mean values of 53.9 +/- 7.4 and of 52.0 +/- 7.3 x 10(-6) of the injected lipophilic dose 740 MBq (20 mCi) of HMPAO per cm3 of brain tissue. A unidirectional shift in mean absolute cerebellar uptake values occurs between repeat SPECT examinations in DAT patients similar to previous findings in a group of healthy volunteers. The origin of this phenomenon remains elusive but deserves further study with regard to SPECT (semi)quantification in DAT patients. Most interestingly, the presented findings suggest that with the use of HMPAO SPECT in DAT patients the cerebellum remains scintigraphically uninvolved."}
{"id": "10481106", "title": "[Correlations between brain SPECT and neuropsychology assessments in mild and moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Correlations between brain SPECT and neuropsychology assessments in mild and moderate stages of Alzheimer's disease]. Thirty-four patients with a probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD) (mild AD = 16; moderate AD = 18) and 12 matched controls were evaluated using semiquantitative SPECT-99mTc-HMPAO and neuropsychological tests (CERAD). Both temporal hypoperfusion (p < 0.01) and memory tests (p < 0.001) made it possible to differentiate the controls from mild AD patients. In these patients, significant correlations (p < 0.05) were also found between: 1) delayed recall test/temporal hypoperfusion, 2) learning memory test/temporoparietal and frontal hypoperfusion and 3) visual constructive praxis/posterior temporal hypoperfusion. In contrast to mild AD, moderate AD patients showed higher temporal (p < 0.01) parietal and frontal (p < 0.05) hypoperfusion along with worsening of praxis (p < 0.001) and memory tests (p < 0.05). SPECT imaging and neuropsychology evaluation can distinguish controls from AD patients with mild an moderate grades of dementia, showing a strong correlation from the early stages of AD."}
{"id": "10478741", "title": "Reversible cerebral hypoperfusion observed with Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in reversible dementia caused by hypothyroidism.", "content": "Reversible cerebral hypoperfusion observed with Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in reversible dementia caused by hypothyroidism. A 69-year-old man had hypothyroid dementia as a result of I-131 therapy and an overdose of methimazole. Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT revealed diffuse cerebral hypoperfusion. The findings of brain SPECT normalized with the disappearance of symptoms and a return to the euthyroid state. There was a 25% or 26% reduction of the mean cerebral blood flow during dementia. This may be the first report in which SPECT brain imaging revealed reversible hypoperfusion associated with reversible hypothyroid dementia."}
{"id": "10476310", "title": "Orthostatic hypotension in Alzheimer's disease: result or cause of brain dysfunction?", "content": "Orthostatic hypotension in Alzheimer's disease: result or cause of brain dysfunction? In Alzheimer's disease (AD), an association was found between autonomic dysfunction and frontal hypoperfusion in brain during orthostatic testing. To ascertain whether frontal hypoperfusion is dependent on longitudinal effects of hemodynamic disturbances, or contributes to them, we studied the relationship between the presence of orthostatic hypotension (OH) and resting cerebral blood flow (CBF) in late stages of AD. Twelve women with senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT), and 15 non-demented women (mean age 82.6 years, SD 3.8 vs 81.8 years, SD 3.5) were examined with the orthostatic test. Four of 12 patients with SDAT, and 9 controls had OH (defined as systolic blood pressure fall > or = 20 mmHg). CBF was determined under resting conditions using 600 Mbq 99mTc HMPAO single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), and quantified in cortical areas in relation to cerebellum. In patients with SDAT and OH, CBF was lower in frontal and parieto-frontal cortical areas than in SDAT patients without OH. The former group was younger and had a shorter dementia duration. No significant differences in CBF were observed between controls with vs without OH. No differences in SDAT patients with or without OH were observed in the Berger dementia scale or Katz' ADL index. No difference in incidence of symptoms related to autonomic disturbances (diarrhea, obstipation, dysphagia, vertigo) was observed in either the SDAT or control group with regard to OH presence. We conclude that during the course of AD, OH can contribute to frontal brain changes and may exacerbate the disease. The further involvement of frontal dysfunction in aggravating blood pressure dysregulation in the elderly is discussed."}
{"id": "10466669", "title": "In-vivo demonstration of dopaminergic degeneration in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "In-vivo demonstration of dopaminergic degeneration in dementia with Lewy bodies. With the dopaminergic presynaptic ligand FP-CIT and single photon emission tomography we have shown a severe dopaminergic degeneration in a patient with a necropsy confirmed diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We suggest that functional imaging of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway helps to distinguish DLB from Alzheimer's disease during life."}
{"id": "10459793", "title": "Depressive illness, depressive symptomatology and regional cerebral blood flow in elderly people with sub-clinical cognitive impairment.", "content": "Depressive illness, depressive symptomatology and regional cerebral blood flow in elderly people with sub-clinical cognitive impairment. Depressive illness in dementia is often assumed to be a unitary clinical phenomenon. To describe changes in patterns of depressive symptomatology with time, and associated changes in cerebral blood flow to the frontal and temporal regions. 397 elderly people with sub-clinical cognitive dysfunction were observed over 3 years. Sixteen percent of them developed dementia during the study The prevalence of depressive symptomatology was higher in this group than in the general population, especially in women, who also had higher recovery rates. A changing profile of depressive symptoms was found in depressed elderly people progressing to dementia, with fewer affective symptoms and increases in agitation and motor slowing. These changes were paralleled by greater reductions in left temporal regional cerebral blood flow than in non-depressed subjects with Alzheimer's disease. In dementia, there may be two separate and interacting depressive syndromes whose differentiation may be clinically important."}
{"id": "10459747", "title": "Adult-type metachromatic leukodystrophy with a compound heterozygote mutation showing character change and dementia.", "content": "Adult-type metachromatic leukodystrophy with a compound heterozygote mutation showing character change and dementia. A 26-year-old Japanese woman slowly developed a change of character such as hypospontaneity and blunted affect, followed by obvious mental deterioration. She was diagnosed as having a disorganized type of schizophrenia at the first examination. Brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated diffuse high intensity in the cerebral white matter, particularly in the frontal lobes. The single photon emission computed tomography images using 123I-IMP disclosed diffuse cerebral hypofusion, especially in the frontal lobes. Electroencephalogram showed a moderate amount of 5-6Hz theta waves on the background of alpha activity. Nerve conduction velocities in the extremities were delayed. The level of leucocyte arylsulphatase was low. In the arylsulphatase A gene analysis, a compound heterozygote having the 99Gly-->Asp and 409Thr-->Ile mutations was confirmed. The patient was diagnosed as having metachromatic leukodystrophy. She gradually showed obvious dementing symptoms such as memory disturbance and disorientation. The characteristics of the psychiatric symptoms in the leukodystrophy are discussed."}
{"id": "10457954", "title": "[Two cases of fronto-temporal dementia without remarkable lobar atrophy].", "content": "[Two cases of fronto-temporal dementia without remarkable lobar atrophy]. Front-temporal dementia (FTD), advocated by Lund and Manchester groups, includes Pick type corresponding to the conventional frontal Pick's disease, motor-neuron type associated with neural symptoms, and frontal lobe degeneration type. In Japan, however, there have been few case reports of the frontal lobe degeneration type. Here we examined clinical characteristics and imaging findings of 2 cases of FTD frontal lobe degeneration type. Neurological examinations were normal. CT and MRI scans revealed no obvious frontal lobar atrophy, while HMPAO-SPECT scans demonstrated remarkable hypoperfusion in anterior hemisphere. Neuropsychological examination revealed frontal symptoms, including personality change, stereotypes, and disinhibition. These symptoms can not be distinguished from the cases of FTD Pick type, because those cases of FTD Pick type have obvious lobar atrophy."}
{"id": "10452310", "title": "Technetium HMPAO SPECT study in dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease and idiopathic Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Technetium HMPAO SPECT study in dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease and idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study was to compare the regional cerebral blood flow measurements studied by SPECT in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) to determine the contribution of SPECT to the differential diagnosis of these two diseases. SPECT analysis with 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) was performed in 20 patients with probable DLB, 20 patients with probable AD and 20 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). Ten pairs of regions of interest were analyzed. Tracer uptake was expressed as a corticocerebellar activity ratio. Compared with IPD, in the DLB group there was a global decrease of HMPAO uptake in cortical regions of interest except in the posterior frontal and occipital regions; in the AD group there was limited left temporal and parietal hypoperfusion. In the DLB group, frontal HMPAO uptake was significantly lower than in the AD group. Two predictive scores were established by a factorial discriminant analysis from six left cortical indices (medial frontal, lateral frontal, posterior frontal, temporoparietal, parietal and parietooccipital) and the Mini-Mental State Examination, which correctly classified 53 of 60 patients (88%) (DLB, 18 of 20; AD, 16 of 20; IPD, 19 of 20). These findings indicate the presence of diffuse cortical abnormalities in DLB and suggest that SPECT may be useful in discriminating in vivo DLB from AD, revealing mainly frontal hypoperfusion in the former group. We estimate that SPECT study increases the possibility of separating DLB and AD because both disorders share different patterns of cerebral blood flow abnormality."}
{"id": "10448800", "title": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a clinical-anatomic correlation.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a clinical-anatomic correlation. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare transmissible disease that typically causes a rapidly progressive dementia and leads to death in less than 1 year. Although a few anecdotal reports suggest that diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging may help substantiate premortem diagnosis of CJD, detailed correlation between radiographic data and clinical, electrophysiologic, and metabolic parameters is not available. Signal abnormalities on diffusion-weighted images in 3 consecutive patients with probable CJD were correlated with psychometric features, electroencephalographic findings, and functional images with either positron emission tomography or single photon emission computed tomography. Focality of abnormalities on diffusion-weighted image, not apparent on routine magnetic resonance images, correlated closely with clinical manifestations of CJD. The topographic distribution of signal abnormality on diffusion-weighted image corresponded with abnormal metabolism or perfusion on positron emission and single photon emission computed tomographic scans. In 2 cases, the laterality of diffusion abnormalities correlated with periodic sharp wave activity on electroencephalograms. These findings extend previous observations that suggested a diagnostic and localizing utility of diffusion-weighted imaging in CJD."}
{"id": "10445434", "title": "Loss of interhemispheric connectivity in patients with lacunar infarction reflected by diffusion-weighted MR imaging and single-photon emission CT.", "content": "Loss of interhemispheric connectivity in patients with lacunar infarction reflected by diffusion-weighted MR imaging and single-photon emission CT. Although decreased neuronal connectivity in white matter has been reported to be a key mechanism of vascular dementia, assessment of white matter changes by diffusion-weighted MR imaging in relation to measures of associative function has not been previously addressed. We evaluated the loss of interhemispheric neuronal connectivity in vascular dementia by measuring diffusional anisotropy of the corpus callosum and determining its relationship to the regional cortical activity as reflected by cortical perfusion. Nine patients with multiple lacunar infarction and six healthy volunteers (25-35 years old) were examined. We developed a method to determine the active cortical volume (ACV) by masking iodine-123 iodoamphetamine SPECT scans to eliminate the effect of brain atrophy. The anisotropic rate (AR) was calculated as a ratio of two perpendicular diffusion coefficients in diffusion-weighted MR imaging. Compared with the ACVs of the healthy volunteers, there were significant decreases in the ACVs in the frontal associative areas in the patients, and these were significantly correlated with cognitive scores. The frontal ACVs showed good correlations with the AR of the anterior corpus callosum among all participants; however, only insignificant trends toward correlation were observed between these two parameters within the patient group. A possible relationship between diffusional anisotropy of the anterior corpus callosum and frontal associative function was suggested; however, an estimation of the decrease in neuronal connectivity in patients with multiple lacunar infarction in terms of the deterioration in diffusional anisotropy requires further documentation."}
{"id": "10439174", "title": "Cognitive impairment in patients with renal failure is associated with multiple-infarct dementia.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in patients with renal failure is associated with multiple-infarct dementia. Patients undergoing long-term renal replacement therapy (such as dialysis) have an increased risk for significant cognitive impairment, which may result in memory problems and subsequently missed attendance at dialysis. The aim of this study was to try to identify any abnormalities of cerebral perfusion that could explain a patient's cognitive impairment and to determine if the pattern of these abnormalities would suggest a cause. 17 patients (13 men; mean age, 60 years; age range, 29-74 years) in end-stage renal failure or on dialysis had SPECT imaging 10 minutes after injection of 550 MBq (15 mCi) Tc-99m HMPAO. Two of the patients had a history of previous stroke. Other risk factors for stroke were noted in most of the patients (hypertension in 10 patients, smoking or former smoking in 10 patients, and cardiac atherosclerosis in 7 patients). In all patients, attenuation correction was applied and the images were reconstructed into three sets of orthogonal slices. Activity in the frontal and temporal lobes was compared by quantification against the ipsilateral and contralateral cerebellum. Discrete cortical defects consistent with infarcts were seen in 14 patients. The mean right and left frontal-to-cerebellar ratio was 0.837 (SD, 0.09) and 0.837 (SD, 0.08), respectively. This was not significantly different from the right and left temporal-to-cerebellar ratios of 0.843 (SD, 0.07) and 0.848 (SD, 0.07), respectively. Both were within normally accepted ranges. Patients in end-stage renal failure who also had cognitive impairment appear to have a high number of cortical defects consistent with infarcts (suggesting a multiple-infarct type of dementia). There was no evidence of Alzheimer-type dementia."}
{"id": "10436345", "title": "Neuroimaging in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Neuroimaging in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia. The role of neuroimaging for the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) remains controversial. The modern history of imaging in the study of FTD is outlined. Also, the findings on MRI and SPECT in 15 consecutive FTD patients is noted. Both MRI and SPECT detected focal frontal involvement in nearly every single case (MRI 14/15 and SPECT 15/15). Also, the majority of patients showed asymmetry on MRI (8/15) and SPECT (12/15). This study confirms that neuroimaging is sensitive to the frontotemporal degeneration associated with FTD. Additionally, it suggests that this is often asymmetric in the relative involvement of these brain regions."}
{"id": "10436338", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease: differential diagnosis.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease: differential diagnosis. This report addresses the clinical differentiation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from frontotemporal dementia (FTD), including Pick's disease. The accuracy of a clinical diagnosis of a dementing disorder is determined in part by the prior probability (base rates) of the disorder, which predicts an overwhelming likelihood of a diagnosis of AD, because the prevalence of AD is much greater than FTD. The clinical features of the disorder also determine the accuracy of diagnosis. Recent studies have reported an improvement in the differential diagnosis of FTD, utilizing the Lund-Manchester criteria. Patients with FTD typically have early noncognitive behavioral changes with relatively spared cognition, frontal atrophy and enlargement of the Sylvian fissures on CT and MRI scans, and frontal-temporal deficits on SPECT or PET scans. In contrast, AD patients have early cognitive changes with relatively preserved personality and behavior, hippocampal and medial-temporal lobe atrophy on CT or MRI scans, and parietotemporal SPECT or PET deficits."}
{"id": "10436334", "title": "The clinical picture of frontotemporal dementia: diagnosis and follow-up.", "content": "The clinical picture of frontotemporal dementia: diagnosis and follow-up. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) was diagnosed in 74 outpatients with a standardized assessment including neuropsychological tests, behavioural scale, structural and functional imaging. Clinical characteristics were consistent with the literature data. The cohort was followed for 2-6 years to determine the reliable variable for evaluating the progression of FTD. Every fourth patient died after a mean duration of 7 years. At first, FTD manifests itself in behavioural changes with relatively stable global cognition although language, verbal fluency and memory tests were reliable tools to follow the progression of the disease. Below 18 of Mini-Mental State Examination, mutism and apathy prevented from neuropsychological testing within the next 6 months. Behavioural disorders evolved with time but restlessness and hyperorality were long-lasting. Imaging showed the progression of a consistent pattern of anterior abnormalities with frequent leukoaraiosis."}
{"id": "10430439", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow difference between dementia with Lewy bodies and AD.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow difference between dementia with Lewy bodies and AD. The authors studied 14 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), 14 patients with AD, and 14 healthy control subjects with N-isopropyl-p-[123I]iodoamphetamine SPECT. Comparison with the statistical parametric mappings revealed that relative cerebral blood flow was lower in the occipital lobes and higher in the right medial temporal lobe in the DLB group than in the AD group. Decreased occipital perfusion and relatively well preserved medial temporal perfusion are features that distinguish DLB from AD."}
{"id": "10426146", "title": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) presenting progressive dementia and parkinsonism.", "content": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) presenting progressive dementia and parkinsonism. We studied three patients with dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF). Major symptoms were progressive dementia and parkinsonism, both of which progressed in step-wise fashion. Two of the three patients showed diffuse cerebral white matter lesions on brain CT and MRI. Progressive dementia and parkinsonism in our patients could be caused by diffuse cerebral parenchymal disturbance: impaired cerebral circulation due to severe venous hypertension. DAVF is important for the differential diagnosis in patients with progressive dementia and parkinsonism."}
{"id": "10418816", "title": "Brain imaging correlates.", "content": "Brain imaging correlates. Because aggressive behavior occurs in so many psychiatric disorders, it is important to have an understanding of the aggression complex of symptoms, which occurs in posttraumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, depression, dementia, schizophrenia, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and the obsessive-compulsive spectrum of disorders. The effective treatment of aggression symptoms would benefit from the identification of the neuroanatomical circuitry implicated in aggression, and a number of studies in humans and animals using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography provide evidence that helps identify this circuitry. However, future research still must address several questions."}
{"id": "10412530", "title": "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia. Case report.", "content": "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia. Case report. A patient is described in whom a profound and rapidly progressive dementia occurred in association with clinical features of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A magnetic resonance imaging showed signs of frontal and especially left temporal atrophy. The pattern of dementia indicated impaired frontotemporal lobe functions, evidenced by reduced tracer uptake in the frontotemporal lobes on brain single photon emission computed tomography. Neuropathological examination in this patient revealed mild frontotemporal atrophy with spongiform changes and neuronal loss affecting mainly layers II and III of the frontotemporal cortices. There was atrophy of the hypoglossal nuclei. The spinal cord changes were consistent with motor neuron disease. The patient showed an irreversible and progressive course. A review of the relevant literature was made."}
{"id": "10407844", "title": "[Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome. Differential diagnosis of early onset dementia].", "content": "[Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome. Differential diagnosis of early onset dementia]. We report the history of a 38 year old patient who began to develop mental deterioration at the age of 26. After a time of 7 years neurological signs like writing dystonia occurred. Hallervorden-Spatz-Disease (HSD) was diagnosed at the age of 36 in vivo with the clinical presentation of severe dystonia, rigidity, dementia, and typical signal loss in the globus-pallidus the reticular part of the substantia nigra, and the nucleus ruber in the T-2 weighted MRI. The \"eye-of-the-tiger\"-sign, a bilateral hyperintensity in the rostral globus pallidus, was not observed in follow-up examinations. HSD is a rare autosomal-recessive or sporadic disease of unknown etiology. In one third of the patients a dementing process is the first clinical sign of the disorder, and is a rare differential diagnosis of early onset dementia."}
{"id": "10404982", "title": "Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function.", "content": "Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function. The mechanism of dementia in subcortical cerebral infarction is incompletely understood. To determine how cognitive function is related to cortical metabolism in patients with subcortical infarction and a continuum of cognitive impairment. We used positron emission tomography (PET) and the glucose metabolic tracer fludeoxyglucose F 18 to study 8 patients with subcortical stroke and normal cognitive function (S-CN), 5 patients with subcortical stroke and cognitive impairment (S-CI) who did not have dementia, 8 patients with subcortical stroke and dementia (S-D), and 11 controls with no cognitive impairment or stroke. A subset of patients had absolute regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) determined, while in all subjects regional tracer uptake normalized to whole brain tracer uptake was calculated. PET data were analyzed by constructing volumes of interest using coregistered magnetic resonance imaging data and correcting the PET data for atrophy. Global CMRglc was significantly lower in the patients with S-D than in the control and S-CN groups, with S-CI rates intermediate to those of the S-D and S-CN groups. Absolute regional CMRs of glucose were similar in the S-D and S-CI groups and in the control and S-CN groups. The regional pattern, however, showed lower right frontal regional CMRglc ratios in all stroke groups compared with the controls. There were modest correlations between performance on the Mini-Mental State Examination and whole brain CMRglc when all 4 groups were included. These results demonstrate that subcortical infarction produces global cerebral hypometabolism, which is related to the clinical status of the patients. In addition, specific frontal lobe hypometabolism also appears to be a feature of subcortical infarction. Taken together, both global and regional effects on cortical function mediate the production of clinical symptoms in patients with subcortical strokes."}
{"id": "10404983", "title": "Inheritance of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Inheritance of frontotemporal dementia. Previous studies of families with fronto-temporal dementia (FTD) support an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, but most studies have described genetic transmission in individual families specifically selected for the presence of multiple affected individuals. To investigate the familial presentation and inheritance of FTD and related disorders among a large group of FTD index cases unselected for family history of dementia. We interviewed family members and reviewed medical records and autopsy reports at a university hospital and a university-affiliated hospital to determine the frequency of familial FTD and the most likely mode of inheritance. Characteristic families with the disorder are described, along with the history, clinical findings, and neuroimaging results in affected members of these families. The 42 index cases of FTD had a mean age of onset of 56.1 years (range, 40-69 years). Of these patients, 21 (50%) were women. All but one of the patients were white. Participants included male and female spouses and children of the index cases. family member with an FTD spectrum disorder and were considered familial cases. The majority (17 [89%]) of familial FTD cases showed a pattern consistent with dominant inheritance. If depression is excluded, familial cases decrease from 19 (45%) to 17 (40%), of which 15 (88%) showed a dominant transmission pattern. The initial presentations in the nonindex familial cases varied but most frequently consisted of personality and behavioral changes that preceded cognitive impairment (19 [43%]), followed by psychiatric illness (14 [33%]), dementia without behavioral change (5 [11%]), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (5 [11%]), and parkinsonism (2[5%]). Two of the affected nonindex cases had dual presenting diagnoses. The average age of onset was 56.1 years and did not differ significantly between familial and nonfamilial cases. Onset of FTD-related symptoms occurred after the age of 65 years in only 4(10%) of 42 index cases and 3 (5%) of 60 affected relatives. Familial FTD is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. The initial onset is insidious, often consisting of mood and behavioral changes occurring in presenile years that are often erroneously attributed to other nonneurologic causes. Although the precise incidence of FTD in North America is not known, it is one of the most common presenile dementias."}
{"id": "10404977", "title": "When do strokes cause dementia? Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function.", "content": "When do strokes cause dementia? Effects of subcortical cerebral infarction on cortical glucose metabolism and cognitive function."}
{"id": "10404521", "title": "[Differential diagnosis of early dementia].", "content": "[Differential diagnosis of early dementia]. The principles of differential diagnosis are discussed of dementia in Alzheimer's disease against similar syndromes of other origin. Among the syndromes which should be differentiated from Alzheimer's disease those are considered: syndromes erroneously diagnosed as dementia, potentially reversible dementia, vascular dementia and dementia in certain degenerative diseases. In the differential diagnosis history data, results of neurological and neuropsychological examinations are helpful, while among laboratory investigations brain imaging by CT, MRI and SPECT are most important."}
{"id": "10391967", "title": "[The clinical features of patients with probable dementia with Lewy bodies--report of 4 cases].", "content": "[The clinical features of patients with probable dementia with Lewy bodies--report of 4 cases]. Recently, McKeith et al. proposed criteria for the clinical diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In our study the clinical features of four patients with progressive dementia, visual hallucinations, delusions, and parkinsonism were compatible with those of DLB. To evaluate the neurological and psychiatric features, responses to medications, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in patients with DLB, we compared the above DLB patients with age- and gender-matched Parkinson's disease patients showing no signs of dementia. Our DLB patients presented with mild tremor, moderate rigidity and akinesia, severe constitutional dysfunction and recurrent visual hallucinations and delusions. These psychiatric symptoms became worse by anticholinergic agents and dopamine agonists and were difficult to control using neuroleptic medications. MRI revealed atrophy of the cerebrum to be more accentuated in the parietal region. SPECT demonstrated hypoperfusion in the parietal and occipital lobes. These findings suggest that parietal lobe dysfunction is a feature of DLB. It may, therefore, be concluded from this study that brain MRI and SPECT are useful in the clinical diagnosis of DLB, and that great caution should be taken when prescribing longacting dopamine agonists and neuroleptics to such patients."}
{"id": "10390781", "title": "[Magnetoencephalography: a new functional diagnostic technique for the neurosciences].", "content": "[Magnetoencephalography: a new functional diagnostic technique for the neurosciences]. We present a review on the technical, methodological and clinical advances in the functional study of the brain by means of magneto-encephalography. We look back the milestones of its historical development, through the work of the major research groups on this field and through our group's works and database (including doctoral thesis). Discussion on the neurophysiological and biomagnetism basis is provided as well as description of technical developments in superconducting detectors (SQUID, Superconducting Quantum Interference Device), signal processing, enhancement of noise-signal ratio and dipole modeling. The need for brain functional studies has led to newer imaging procedures (functional magnetic resonance, PET, SPECT, etc.). Their spatial and temporal resolution and invasivity are compared to that of magneto-encephalography. Current equipment, up to 306 whole-head channels, may accurately detect cortical and subcortical activity. Apart from the physiological activity, it may be applied to a number of conditions: epilepsy (ictal, interictal and presurgical); dementia, movement disorders, stroke, eloquent cortex delimitation prior to tumour or lesion resection; learning disabilities and foetal studies. Magnetoencephalography provides with an excellent temporal, very good spatial resolution, acquires in real-time, without references and minimal interference. It entails a great advance in the diagnostic approach in neurosciences."}
{"id": "10377830", "title": "[Neuroradiologic and pathologic approaches to the diagnosis of dementia syndrome].", "content": "[Neuroradiologic and pathologic approaches to the diagnosis of dementia syndrome]. \"Dementia\" is the general term used to describe the symptom complex of intellectual deterioration in adult. Interest in accurately diagnosing dementia is a relatively recent phenomenon. This is reflected in both the development of neuroradiologic examinations, including MRI and SPECT as well as PET, and marked increase in both the incidence and prevalence of dementia associated with increase of the elderly population. The clinical evaluation remains the key to the differential diagnosis. Most cases of \"typical dementia\" can be diagnosed accurately by clinical criteria. However, the definitive diagnosis of \"atypical dementia\" still requires intensive neuroradiologic studies and histologic examination of brain to identify characteristic structural changes. In this study, we presented both neuroradiologic and neuropathologic information, which is important in diagnosing diseases that present atypical dementia syndrome. These diseases are as follows; AIDS, isolated CNS angiitis, CO intoxication. Wernicke encephalopathy, adrenoleukodystrophy, Nasu disease, CADASIL, CARASIL, glioblastoma, primary CNS lymphoma, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome, mitochondrial encephalopathy (MELAS), and subcortical vascular dementias."}
{"id": "10377795", "title": "[SPM analysis on PET and SPECT data].", "content": "[SPM analysis on PET and SPECT data]. I described the methodological explanation of statistical parametric mapping (SPM) with the special attention to the clinical applications. SPM was designed mainly by K. Friston and R. Frackowiack to visualize the statistically significant regions on the CBF data sets obtained from PET or SPECT during a various kinds of activation. In short, images were realigned to the first scan to eliminate the head position movements, and were normalized to the standard brain shape (Talairach & Tournoux) by linear or non-linear transformation. After that, gausian filtering was done in order to eliminate the individual brain differences and to increase the signal to noise ratio. The pixel by pixel analysis was done with multiple comparison correction, and the statistically significant areas were displayed. In clinical applications, comparison of normal controls with Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, and some activation study in the pathological vs normal condition. In SPECT, we can obtain the brain perfusion images by the injection of Tc-99m labeled CBF tracers, so that we can analyze the condition with the subjects not confined to the scanner."}
{"id": "10370901", "title": "Post mortem studies in Parkinson's disease--is it possible to detect brain areas for specific symptoms?", "content": "Post mortem studies in Parkinson's disease--is it possible to detect brain areas for specific symptoms? Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive neuronal loss associated with Lewy bodies in many subcortical nuclei leading to multiple biochemical and pathophysiological changes of clinical relevance. Loss of nigral neurons causing striatal dopamine deficiency is related to both the duration and clinical stages (severity) of the disease. The clinical subtypes of PD have different morphological lesion patterns: a) The akinetic-rigid type shows more severe cell loss in the ventrolateral part of substantia nigra zona compacta (SNZC) that projects to the dorsal putamen than the medial part projecting to caudate nucleus and anterior putamen, with negative correlation between SNZC cell counts, severity of akinesia-rigidity, and dopamine loss in the posterior putamen. Reduced dopaminergic input causes overactivity of the GABA ergic inhibitory striatal neurons projecting via the \"indirect loop\" to SN zona reticulata (SNZR) and medial pallidum (GPI) leading to inhibition of the glutamatergic thalamo-cortical motor loop and reduced cortical activation. b) The tremor-dominant type shows more severe neuron loss in medial than in lateral SNZC and damage to the retrorubral field A8 containing only few tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter immunoreactive (IR) neurons but mainly calretinin-IR cells. A8 that is rather preserved in rigid-akinetic PD (protective role of calcium-binding protein?) projects to the matrix of dorsolateral striatum and ventromedial thalamus. Together with area A10 it influences the strial efflux via SNZR to thalamus and from there to prefrontal cortex. Rest tremor in PD is associated with increased metabolism in the thalamus, subthalamus, pons, and premotor-cortical network suggesting an increased functional activity of thalamo-motor projections. In essential tremor, no significant pathomorphological changes but overactivity of cerebello-thalamic loop have been observed. c) In the akinetic-rigid forms of multisystem atrophy, degeneration is more severe in the lateral SNZC with severe loss of calbindin-IR cells reflecting initial degeneration of the striatal matrix in the caudal putamen with transsynaptic degeneration of striatonigral efferences that remain intact in PD. This fact and loss of striatal D2 receptors--as in advanced stages of PD--are reasons for negative response to L-dopa substitution. These data suggest different pathophysiological mechanisms of the clinical subtypes of PD that have important therapeutic implications. d) Involvement of extranigral structures in PD includes the mesocortical dopaminergic system, the noradrenergic locus coeruleus, dorsal vagal nucleus and medullary nuclei, serotonergic dorsal raphe, nucleus basalis of Meynert and other cholinergic brainstem nuclei, e.g. Westphal-Edinger nucleus (controlling pupillomotor function), posterolateral hypothalamus and the limbic system, e.g. amygdaloid nucleus, part of hippocampal formation, limbic thalamic nuclei with prefrontal projections, etc. Damage to multiple neuronal systems by the progressing degenerative process causing complex biochemical changes may explain the variable clinical picture of PD including vegetative, behavioural and cognitive dysfunctions, depression, pharmacotoxic psychoses, etc. Future comparative clinico-morphological and pathobiochemical studies will further elucidate the pathophysiological basis of specific clinical symptoms of PD and related disorders providing a broader basis for effective treatment strategies. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system and other subcortical neuronal systems leading to striatal dopamine deficiency and other biochemical deficits related to the variable clinical signs and symptoms of the disorder. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)"}
{"id": "10369094", "title": "Mnestic block syndrome.", "content": "Mnestic block syndrome. The case of a patient with largely preserved intelligence, but severe and persistent memory impairments is reported. FA, a 46-year-old patient with the diagnosis of prolonged depression was investigated repeatedly over a two year period with neuroradiological, neuropsychological, neuromonitoring and other methods. While no brain damage was detectable in FA, he manifested continued and severe anterograde and retrograde memory disorders together with an inhibition in his thinking processes. Otherwise, his intellectual capabilities were in the normal range, that is he was not pseudo-demented. Various approaches with drug treatment and psychotherapy failed to improve his condition. The condition is interpreted as 'mnestic block syndrome' and is considered to be related to an altered brain metabolism which may include changes in various transmitter and hormonal systems (GABA-agonists, glucocorticoids, acetylcholine). Whether depression contributes to this syndrome is uncertain from FA's cognitive performance, but may be a possibility."}
{"id": "10363311", "title": "[Association of parkinsonism, dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as infrequent finding].", "content": "[Association of parkinsonism, dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as infrequent finding]."}
{"id": "10352866", "title": "Apolipoprotein E and Alzheimer's disease: a genetic, molecular and neuroimaging review.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E and Alzheimer's disease: a genetic, molecular and neuroimaging review. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly and an increasingly significant health concern in our aging population. In the past 10 years, our understanding of this disease has increased dramatically. While the discovery of three rare genetic mutations that can cause AD has provided much information about the causes and progression of the disease, a great deal of attention has been focused on apolipoprotein (ApoE) because of its involvement in the more common, later onset form of AD. Due to the rapid pace of recent advances, it has not been easy for health care professionals, researchers and the general public to keep abreast of these developments. This paper reviews recent research in ApoE and late-onset AD, emphasizing molecular neuropathological, genetic and neuroimaging findings and highlighting current controversies that remain to be addressed."}
{"id": "10325449", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia: An attempt at clinical characteristics.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia: An attempt at clinical characteristics. The clinical recognition of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) depends on its differentiation from Alzheimer's disease (AD). From 212 patients primarily diagnosed as probable AD, 24 cases with mild dementia, absence of disturbances the presence of which would have prevented a full neuropsychological assessment, and brain CT with detailed visualization of hippocampus atrophy were chosen. On the basis of neuropsychological examination the patients were divided into two groups: 11 cases with predominant deficit in frontal system tasks (FTD group) and 13 cases with changes in cognitive functions typical of AD (AD group). Age at onset, duration, behavioral changes, psychotic symptoms, depression, speech disorders, neurologic deficit and hippocampal atrophy were analyzed in both groups. Statistically significant differences for behavioral disturbances and hippocampal atrophy were found. Early behavioral changes and lack of early hippocampal atrophy on CT may be useful features for differentiating between FTD and AD, especially when SPECT is not available."}
{"id": "10223261", "title": "Early diagnosis of the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia: how sensitive are standard neuroimaging and neuropsychologic tests?", "content": "Early diagnosis of the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia: how sensitive are standard neuroimaging and neuropsychologic tests? To examine the role of structural (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) and functional (single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]) imaging and neuropsychologic evaluation in the early diagnosis of frontal variant frontotemporal dementia (fvFTD). Current criteria for FTD stress the need for neuropsychologic and functional neuroimaging abnormalities, yet caregivers report lengthy histories of behavioral change. It is not known when, in the course of the disease, these investigations become abnormal, because few longitudinal studies have been reported. Longitudinal study of two patients with serial neuropsychologic evaluation and MRI and HMPAO-SPECT scanning. Both patients, men aged 49 and 50, had major changes in personality, behavior, and social conduct that progressed over 5 to 6 years in a way that conformed to the clinical picture of fvFTD. There was remarkably little abnormality on neuropsychologic testing, and MRI and HMPAO-SPECT findings initially were normal. Over time, however, abnormalities on SPECT, frontal atrophy on MRI, or a neuropsychologic profile more typical of fvFTD developed in both patients. Standard neuropsychologic tests and conventional brain imaging techniques (MRI and SPECT) may not be sensitive to the early changes in fvFTD that occur in the ventromedial frontal cortex, and better methods of accurate early detection are required. These findings are relevant to the diagnostic criteria for FTD."}
{"id": "10213976", "title": "[Longitudinal evaluation of early dementia of Alzheimer type using brain perfusion SPECT].", "content": "[Longitudinal evaluation of early dementia of Alzheimer type using brain perfusion SPECT]. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements using a Patlak plot method of 99mTc-ECD were performed in early dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) with both HDS-R and MMSE of over 20 to investigate initial abnormality and longitudinal changes of rCBF. A fusion technique of MRI and SPECT images was developed for MRI-guided analysis of regions of interest in hippocampal areas and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) was used for automated and objective approach to analysis of SPECT image data. Seventeen patients with clinically diagnosed early DAT and age-matched 32 normal control subjects were studied. At the first SPECT studies, the mean cerebral blood flow (mCBF) of 38.6 +/- 4.7 ml/100 g/min (mean +/- SD) for early DAT did not show significant reduction as compared with the normal control value of 42.0 +/- 3.8, whereas the rCBF values in the bilateral hippocampi (right; 26.8 +/- 4.7, left; 26.7 +/- 5.2) showed significant reduction (p < 0.05) as compared with the normal control values (right; 38.3 +/- 4.2, left; 38.4 +/- 3.8). The SPM analysis (voxel height; p < 0.001, Bonferroni correction; p < 0.05) of the first SPECT images revealed significant selective decrease of relative rCBF in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri. At the second SPECT studies after 1.4 year on the average from the first studies, mCBF for early DAT showed a slight decrease by 1.7 +/- 3.8 ml/100 g/min/year. Bilateral hippocampi showed a greater decrease with slight left-side dominance by 3.8 +/- 3.3 on the right and 4.4 +/- 3.2 on the left side. The SPM analysis demonstrated significant decrease of relative rCBF in the basal fore-brain area, the left hippocampus, the left amygdala, and the left parahippocampal area. These results suggest that the MRI-guided ROI analysis of rCBF values in the hippocampus and the SPM analysis of SPECT images are quite useful for early diagnosis and follow-up of DAT."}
{"id": "10210919", "title": "Hereditary sensory neuropathy with deafness and dementia: a clinical and neuroimaging study.", "content": "Hereditary sensory neuropathy with deafness and dementia: a clinical and neuroimaging study. We describe three sibling patients with autosomal dominantly inherited sensory neuropathy, sensorineural hearing loss and dementia. The features of cognitive-behavioral deficits in the patients, including executive dysfunction, apathy, indifference and inattention, were consistent with a frontal lobe dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a diffuse brain atrophy. A fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in one patient and a single photon emission computed tomography in another demonstrated a glucose hypometabolism or a hypoperfusion in the medial frontal and thalamic regions. Primary frontal involvement or frontal dysfunction secondary to thalamic lesions may contribute to the nature of dementia in these patients."}
{"id": "10210909", "title": "Frontal type dementia preceding amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a neuropsychological and SPECT study of five clinical cases.", "content": "Frontal type dementia preceding amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a neuropsychological and SPECT study of five clinical cases. Between 1993 and 1995, we observed five sporadic cases of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) which in all cases preceded the appearance of typical amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The FTD rapidly became severe (within 12-18 months) and the delay between the presumed onset of mental change and ALS was short (12-26 months). The frontal dysfunction was characteristic (disinhibited, jocular, impatient, gluttonous, stereotypical gestures). The language impairment (less talkative, persistent errors, fantastic and semantic paraphasia, neologistic errors, echolalia) was constant. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99 Tcm HMPAO (hexamethyl propylamine oxime) was done at the same time as neuropsychological testing in four cases and showed serious diffuse bifrontal defect, sometimes with less serious internal temporal hypofixation. All patients died with bulbar ALS complications. The total course can last from 14-48 months. Most of the reported cases suggested a relationship between dementia-ALS and frontal dysfunction. The mechanism underlying dementia-ALS remains to be solved. Our five cases resemble those reported by Mitsuyama (1993), who suggested that dementia-ALS has the same clinicopathological entity."}
{"id": "10210209", "title": "99mTc-HMPAO regional cerebral blood flow and quantitative electroencephalography in Alzheimer's disease: a correlative study.", "content": "99mTc-HMPAO regional cerebral blood flow and quantitative electroencephalography in Alzheimer's disease: a correlative study. In this study the neuropsychological status of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) was correlated with quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) both in the cortex and in deep gray matter structures. Forty-three outpatients (mean age 72.4 +/- 7.5 y) with probable AD underwent 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime SPECT with a brain-dedicated gamma camera and qEEG (relative values) within 1 mo. Preliminary factorial analysis with promax rotation identified four qEEG bands (2-5.5, 6-7.5, 8-11.5 and 12-22.5 Hz, with no distinction as to topography) and six SPECT regions (the two thalami together, the two parietal cortices together, the right temporal cortex, the right hippocampus, the left hippocampus and the remaining cortical areas together) as the variables with highest statistical power. All these variables and the Mini-Mental Status Examination score (MMSE, a sensitive marker of neuropsychological deficit) were processed by a final factorial analysis and multivariate analysis of variance. Both the 2-5.5 Hz and the 8-11.5 Hz powers were correlated with the perfusion level in the parietal regions of interest (ROls) (P = 0.0009), whereas the 2-5.5 Hz power was correlated with the right hippocampal perfusion level (P = 0.007). The MMSE score was significantly correlated with the perfusion level, both in the right (P = 0.006) and in the left (P = 0.004) hippocampal ROls and in the parietal ROls (P = 0.01); moreover, it was correlated with both the 2-5.5 Hz (P = 0.0005) and the 8-11.5 Hz (P = 0.004) power. rCBF (bilateral parietal perfusion) and qEEG (especially the slowest frequencies, i.e., 2-5.5 Hz) are confirmed to be good descriptors of AD severity. It is especially noteworthy that bilateral hippocampal CBF was the perfusional index best correlated with the MMSE as well as being significantly correlated to qEEG. Hippocampal SPECT imaging appears to be a promising index to improve characterization of AD in respect to other forms of primary degenerative dementia and may be proposed as a marker for evaluating the effects of pharmacotherapy of AD at the neuronal level."}
{"id": "10206528", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO brain perfusion imaging in young Down's syndrome patients.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO brain perfusion imaging in young Down's syndrome patients. Down's syndrome (DS) is characterized by moderate mental retardation and a variety of abnormalities involving multiple organ systems. There is a high incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) type dementia beyond the age of 35. In this study, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain perfusion imaging of young Down's syndrome patients was performed to define the perfusion pattern. Tc-99m HMPAO brain perfusion SPECT was performed on 17 young DS patients, aged 3-24 years (mean: 10.9+/-5.9 years). None of the patients had dementia symptoms. Brain perfusion scans were acquired 15 min after i.v. injection of 12 MBq/kg of Tc-99m HMPAO using a single head rotating gamma camera. Images were analyzed visually and semiquantitatively by defining side-to-side asymmetry index. Nine DS cases showed normal brain perfusion. Eight of the 17 cases revealed mostly unilateral parieto-temporal, parieto-occipital and frontal hypoperfusions. The side-to-side asymmetry indices for these visually interpreted regional brain perfusion abnormalities ranged from 6 to 15%. These findings revealing mostly unilateral parieto-temporal and frontal hypoperfusions may not be considered as predictive patterns of dementia related Alzheimer type perfusion deficits in DS. However, such findings may connect to other functional imaging studies related to the higher cortical dysfunction in mental retardation."}
{"id": "10201284", "title": "An autopsy case of myotonic dystrophy with mental disorders and various neuropathologic features.", "content": "An autopsy case of myotonic dystrophy with mental disorders and various neuropathologic features. An autopsy case of myotonic dystrophy (MD) is reported. The patient was a 58-year-old male. He presented with muscular weakness and muscular atrophy at the age of 33 and was diagnosed as having MD from myotonic symptoms (i.e. percussion and grip myotonia) at 49 years old. Mental disorders including a delusional hallucinatory state, mental slowness, indifference, and lack of spontaneity as well as visual cognitive impairments were noted at the age of 55. He showed Parkinsonism and died of septic shock. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated diffuse cortical atrophy with a marked frontal atrophy and high-intensity signals in the white matter. Single photon emission computed tomography demonstrated hypoperfusion in the frontal cortex. Neuropathologic observation revealed neuronal loss in the superficial layer of the frontal and parietal cortices and extensive neuronal loss in the occipital cortex, intracytoplasmic inclusion body in the nerve cell of the medial thalamic nuclei, neuronal loss and presence of Lewy bodies in the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus corresponding to the pathologic features of Parkinson's disease, as well as abnormalities of myelin in the white matter. The present case suggests that in MD brain, various neuropathologic changes may occur and they contribute to the mental disorders."}
{"id": "10093779", "title": "[Frontal lobe dementia. Clinical-pathologic case reports].", "content": "[Frontal lobe dementia. Clinical-pathologic case reports]. Frontal lobe dementia (FLD) is characterised clinically by personality changes and a progressive speech disorder finally leading to mutism. In the course of the disease also other neurological syndromes may occur such as parkinsonism, a partial Kl\u00fcver-Bucy-syndrome or a degeneration of motoneurons (FLD + MND). The latter leads to death within about three years. The clinical diagnosis of FLD is supported by functional (SPECT) and morphological (CT, MRI) investigations. From 1988 to 1997, 9 cases of FLD (6 female, 3 male) were clinically diagnosed at our department of Gerontology, LNK Linz. In two of these cases the clinical diagnosis was confirmed histopathologically. Characteristically, all except one patients showed a presenile beginning of the disease. The clinical course was slowly progressive with a mean duration of about 10 years. Special attention was given to additional signs and symptoms of motor neuron disease, parkinsonism and hyperorality. Six patients suffered from FLD + MND; parkinsonism (rigid-akinetic type) and a partial Kl\u00fcver-Bucy-syndrome were diagnosed in 5 cases each. In histopathological investigations the incidence of FLD seems to increase. This type of dementia should be considered as an important diagnosis differential of presenile dementia-syndromes."}
{"id": "10079318", "title": "Measurement of temporal regional cerebral perfusion with single-photon emission tomography predicts rate of decline in language function and survival in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Measurement of temporal regional cerebral perfusion with single-photon emission tomography predicts rate of decline in language function and survival in early Alzheimer's disease. We determined the relationship between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured with single-photon emission tomography (SPET) and decline in cognitive function and survival in Alzheimer's disease. In a prospective follow-up study, 69 consecutively referred patients with early probable Alzheimer's disease (NINCDS/ADRDA criteria) underwent SPET performed at the time of initial diagnosis using technetium-99m-labelled hexamethylpropylene amine oxime. Neuropsychological function was assessed at baseline and after 6 months and survival data were available on all patients, extending to 5.5 years of follow-up. Lower left temporal (P<0.01) and lower left parietal (P<0.01) rCBF were statistically significantly related to decline in language function after 6 months. The association between left temporal rCBF and survival was also statistically significant (P<0.05) using Cox proportional hazards regression analysis. Performing analysis with quartiles of the distribution, we found a threshold effect for low left temporal rCBF (rCBF<73.7%, P<0. 01) and high risk of mortality. In this lowest quartile, median survival time was 2.7 years (follow-up to 5.2 years), compared with 4.4 years in the other quartiles (follow-up to 5.5 years). Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed statistically significant (P<0. 05, log rank test) survival curves for the lowest versus other quartiles of left temporal rCBF. All results were unaffected by adjustment for age, sex, dementia severity, duration of symptoms, education and ratings of local cortical atrophy. We conclude that left temporal rCBF predicts decline in language function and survival in patients with early probable Alzheimer's disease, with a threshold effect of low rCBF and high risk of mortality."}
{"id": "10079314", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow single-photon emission tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO and the acetazolamide test in the evaluation of vascular and Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow single-photon emission tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO and the acetazolamide test in the evaluation of vascular and Alzheimer's dementia. The diagnostic potential of technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) following systemic administration of the cerebral vasodilator acetazolamide (acetazolamide test) was evaluated by regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) single-photon emission tomography (SPET) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or vascular dementia (VD). An initial, high-resolution SPET study was performed with 99mTc-HMPAO, and after 2 days the patients were re-evaluated with 99mTc-HMPAO following systemic administration of acetazolamide. Reconstructed SPET slices were evaluated visually and semiquantitatively by a semi-automatic rCBF map method. When 99mTc-HMPAO alone was used, bilateral hypoperfusion was found in the temporal and/or parietal regions in 33% (6/18) of the VD patients and in 70% (23/33) of the AD patients. The corresponding data obtained by quantitative evaluation were 41% (7/17) and 71% (15/21), respectively. The vascular reserve capacity, as determined with the acetazolamide test, was preserved visually in 22% (4/18) and quantitatively in 29% (5/17) of the VD patients, but in 73% (24/33) and 76% (16/21) of the AD patients. The differences in the perfusion patterns between the VD and AD patients were statistically significant (P<0.01, Fischer's exact test). Of the VD patients with hypoperfusion (bilateral temporal and/or parietal), 4/6 (67%, visual evaluation) and 4/7 (57%, quantitative evaluation) had a decreased vascular reserve capacity as determined with the acetazolamide test. In the AD group of patients the corresponding results were 3/23 (13%) and 4/15 (27%). It is concluded that the acetazolamide test is promising in rCBF SPET to differentiate VD from AD."}
{"id": "10071109", "title": "Progressive aphasia with rapidly progressive dementia in a 49 year old woman.", "content": "Progressive aphasia with rapidly progressive dementia in a 49 year old woman."}
{"id": "10071106", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in the evaluation of Alzheimer's disease: correlation between neuropsychiatric evaluation and CBF images.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT in the evaluation of Alzheimer's disease: correlation between neuropsychiatric evaluation and CBF images. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of various covariants on the distribution pattern of Tc-99m HMPAO in patients with Alzheimer's disease by correlation analysis. Twenty patients with Alzheimer's disease and 15 age matched normal subjects participated. Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT and x ray computed tomography (CT) were acquired for each subject. SPECT images were transformed to a standard size and shape by automated image registration (AIR) and were used for group comparison by means of SPM96. Voxel based covariance analysis was performed on standardised images taking the age of patients, severity of disease (clinical dementia rating scale, mini mental state examination, physical self maintenance scale), and atrophy indices as variables. There was significantly decreased regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the frontal, parietal, and temporal regions in the patient group (p<0.001), more marked in those patients having severe dementia. Covariance analysis disclosed that aging and severity of disease have a pronounced effect on rCBF, especially that of the left parietal region."}
{"id": "10068803", "title": "Lack of prognostic significance of SPECT abnormalities in non-demented elderly subjects with memory loss.", "content": "Lack of prognostic significance of SPECT abnormalities in non-demented elderly subjects with memory loss. To determine if hypoperfusion abnormalities on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are associated with poorer cognitive function at baseline or increased risk of decline in cognitive function and progression to dementia in memory-impaired but non-demented elderly subjects meeting the criteria for aging associated cognitive decline (AACD). Cross sectional study of 36 AACD subjects comparing hexamethyl propylene-amine oxime (HMPAO) SPECT results rated by visual inspection with base line cognitive functioning. Prospective study of these AACD subjects with clinical and neuropsychological follow-up over 35 months. The memory clinic and nuclear medicine unit of a university teaching hospital. Thirty-six subjects meeting the criteria for AACD recruited from patients seen on a physician referral basis. 1) Baseline cognitive function as measured by the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Boston naming, Logical Memory I subtest of the WAIS-R, and verbal fluency, correlated with SPECT status. 2) Decline in cognitive function as measured by clinical exam and the MMSE, with progression to dementia on follow-up being correlated with SPECT status at baseline. 18 of the 36 subjects progressed to dementia (probable Alzheimer's Disease) over follow-up. No correlation was found between the presence or absence of SPECT abnormality and MMSE or other cognitive measures. There was no correlation between the presence or absence of SPECT abnormality at initial examination, and cognitive decline according to the MMSE, or with the occurrence of clinical dementia on follow-up. We conclude that SPECT abnormalities assessed by visual inspection do not correlate with severity of impairment in AACD individuals, and are not useful in predicting progression to dementia in AACD subjects."}
{"id": "10066852", "title": "Neuropsychological impairment correlates with hypoperfusion and hypometabolism but not with severity of white matter lesions on MRI in patients with cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "Neuropsychological impairment correlates with hypoperfusion and hypometabolism but not with severity of white matter lesions on MRI in patients with cerebral microangiopathy. Cerebral microangiopathy, indicated on MRI by lacunar infarctions (LI) and deep white matter lesions (DWML), is said to lead to vascular dementia. Fifty-seven patients with proven cerebral microangiopathy were assessed for changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and glucose metabolism (rMRGlu) and compared with 19 age-matched controls. The findings were correlated with results of extensive neuropsychological testing, as well as with MRI findings. A special head holder ensured reproducibility of positioning during rCBF (single-photon emission CT [SPECT]), rMRGlu (positron emission tomography [PET]), and MR imaging. White matter and cortex were quantified with regions of interest defined on MRI and superimposed to corresponding PET/SPECT slices. LI and DWML were graded by number and extent. Even with severe DWML and multiple LI, rCBF and rMRGlu values were not reduced. ANOVAs identified brain atrophy and neuropsychological deficits as the main determinants for reduced rCBF and rMRGlu values in both cortex and white matter. Neuropsychological deficits correlated well with decreased rCBF and rMRGlu, whereas MRI patterns such as LI and DWML did not. Factor analysis revealed no correlation of LI and DWML with rCBF, rMRGlu, atrophy, and neuropsychological deficits, showing instead positive correlations between rCBF, rMRGlu, and neuropsychological performance and negative correlations of the latter 3 with brain atrophy. From these data, we conclude that LI and DWML are epiphenomena that may morphologically characterize cerebral microangiopathy but do not in themselves indicate cognitive impairment. Dementia or neuropsychological deficits, by contrast, are reflected exclusively by functional imaging parameters (rCBF, rMRGlu) and cerebral atrophy."}
{"id": "10050895", "title": "Disrupted temporal lobe connections in semantic dementia.", "content": "Disrupted temporal lobe connections in semantic dementia. Semantic dementia refers to the variant of frontotemporal dementia in which there is progressive semantic deterioration and anomia in the face of relative preservation of other language and cognitive functions. Structural imaging and SPECT studies of such patients have suggested that the site of damage, and by inference the region critical to semantic processing, is the anterolateral temporal lobe, especially on the left. Recent functional imaging studies of normal participants have revealed a network of areas involved in semantic tasks. The present study used PET to examine the consequences of focal damage to the anterolateral temporal cortex for the operation of this semantic network. We measured PET activation associated with a semantic decision task relative to a visual decision task in four patients with semantic dementia compared with six age-matched normal controls. Normals activated a network of regions consistent with previous studies. The patients activated some areas consistently with the normals, including some regions of significant atrophy, but showed substantially reduced activity particularly in the left posterior inferior temporal gyrus (iTG) (Brodmann area 37/19). Voxel-based morphometry, used to identify the regions of structural deficit, revealed significant anterolateral temporal atrophy (especially on the left), but no significant structural damage to the posterior inferior temporal lobe. Other evidence suggests that the left posterior iTG is critically involved in lexical-phonological retrieval: the lack of activation here is consistent with the observation that these patients are all anomic. We conclude that changes in activity in regions distant from the patients' structural damage support the argument that their prominent anomia is due to disrupted temporal lobe connections."}
{"id": "10026384", "title": "Relationship between clinical and radiological diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease and the extent of neuropathology as reflected by 'stages': a prospective study.", "content": "Relationship between clinical and radiological diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease and the extent of neuropathology as reflected by 'stages': a prospective study. The distribution of pathology related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not uniform throughout the brain. Sites which have a predilection for the development of Alzheimer-type pathology are the limbic regions and neocortical association areas. The changes in these areas of the brain develop gradually, following a well-determined sequence that allows a pathological staging of the disease process. According to the staging hypothesis, the first pathological alterations develop in the transentorhinal and entorhinal regions. The neurofibrillary pathology then spreads into the hippocampus, but not until the final stages does it affect the neocortex. In this study we analyse the relationship between the pathological stages of AD, according ot the staging hypothesis, and the clinical diagnosis in a prospectively assessed patient group. Prediction of any given pathological stage from the clinical diagnosis was found to be poor. This may be partly due to the fact that additional pathologies can alter the clinical picture and severity of dementia in patients who are only in the initial stages of AD. Nevertheless, the NINCDS-ADRDA clinical criteria had a high sensitivity for detection of AD-related pathology: the 'probable AD' category included 22/38 (57.9%) of those in the late isocortical stage, while the 'possible AD' category included 19/23 (82.6%) of those in the limbic stage. Using proposed neuro-imaging protocols for improved identification of patients with AD-related pathology, we largely identified subjects in whom the extent of pathology had spread to the neocortex."}
{"id": "10025830", "title": "Parametric mapping of cerebral blood flow deficits in Alzheimer's disease: a SPECT study using HMPAO and image standardization technique.", "content": "Parametric mapping of cerebral blood flow deficits in Alzheimer's disease: a SPECT study using HMPAO and image standardization technique. This study assessed the accuracy and reliability of Automated Image Registration (AIR) for standardization of brain SPECT images of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Standardized cerebral blood flow (CBF) images of patients with AD and control subjects were then used for group comparison and covariance analyses. Thirteen patients with AD at an early stage (age 69.8+/-7.1 y, Clinical Dementia Rating Score 0.5-1.0, Mini-Mental State Examination score 19-23) and 20 age-matched normal subjects (age 69.5+/-8.3 y) participated in this study. 99mTc-hexamethyl propylenamine oxime (HMPAO) brain SPECT and CT scans were acquired for each subject. SPECT images were transformed to a standard size and shape with the help of AIR. Accuracy of AIR for spatial normalization was evaluated by an index calculated on SPECT images. Anatomical variability of standardized target images was evaluated by measurements on corresponding CT scans, spatially normalized using transformations established by the SPECT images. Realigned brain SPECT images of patients and controls were used for group comparison with the help of statistical parameter mapping. Significant differences were displayed on the respective voxel to generate three-dimensional Z maps. CT scans of individual subjects were evaluated by a computer program for brain atrophy. Voxel-based covariance analysis was performed on standardized images with ages and atrophy indices as independent variables. Inaccuracy assessed by functional data was 2.3%. The maximum anatomical variability was 4.9 mm after standardization. Z maps showed significantly decreased regional CBF (rCBF) in the frontal, parietal and temporal regions in the patient group (P < 0.001). Covariance analysis revealed that the effects of aging on rCBF were more pronounced compared with atrophy, especially in intact cortical areas at an early stage of AD. Decrease in rCBF was partly due to senility and atrophy, however these two factors cannot explain all the deficits. AIR can transform SPECT images of AD patients with acceptable accuracy without any need for corresponding structural images. The frontal regions of the brain, in addition to parietal and temporal lobes, may show reduced CBF in patients with AD even at an early stage of dementia. The reduced rCBF in the cortical regions cannot be explained entirely by advanced atrophy and fast aging process."}
{"id": "9987709", "title": "Early diagnosis of dementia: neuroimaging.", "content": "Early diagnosis of dementia: neuroimaging. The use of neuroimaging is reviewed in the diagnosis of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease (AD). Computed tomography (CT) may be used to exclude other causes of dementia than AD. The finding of cortical or subcortical atrophy on CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) itself does not indicate AD. Hippocampal atrophy on CT/MRI provides a useful early marker, although further longitudinal and neuropathological study is required. CT- and MRI-based measurements of hippocampal atrophy show promise in providing useful diagnostic information for discriminating patients with probable AD from normal elderly individuals. Using a standardized imaging protocol, including some assessment of hippocampal atrophy, can save costs since patients with suspected AD must undergo a cross-sectional imaging study to exclude other (treatable) causes of dementia. Combining an assessment of hippocampal atrophy with cerebral blood flow measurements by single photon emission computed tomography is not warranted either from a clinical or from an economic point of view."}
{"id": "10785837", "title": "Imaging of nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson syndromes.", "content": "Imaging of nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson syndromes. Neuroimaging modalities in Parkinson's Disease (PD) are primarily used for the differential diagnosis of Parkinson syndromes and to understand pathophysiological mechanisms in PD. Neuroimaging of nonmotor dysfunctions in PD mostly consist of functional studies in neuropsychologically impaired PD patients using PET or SPECT techniques. Various studies controversially discuss the probable frontal versus temporal hypometabolism in demented PD patients. Functional studies of PD patients with depression are limited to case reports showing an involvement of left frontal regions. To investigate the pathophysiology of hallucinations with functional imaging may be a promising field of future research."}
{"id": "10463218", "title": "[Diagnostic value of regional cerebral blood flow in SPECT pattern in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of regional cerebral blood flow in SPECT pattern in Alzheimer's disease]. Regional cerebral blood flow in SPECT pattern was estimated in 20 cases of Alzheimer disease. In all patients diffuse hypoperfusion was found evidencing a great diagnostic value of SPECT. A special significance has the study of regional cerebral blood flow in the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer disease, frontal lobe dementia and pseudodementia in major depression."}
{"id": "10203975", "title": "[Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome with a Pro102Leu mutation in the prion protein gene and atypical MRI findings, hyperthermia, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis].", "content": "[Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome with a Pro102Leu mutation in the prion protein gene and atypical MRI findings, hyperthermia, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis]. A 64-year-old Japanese woman with Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS) is reported. She was admitted to our hospital for progressive amnesia, twitching of the right upper limb, and difficulty in speaking and walking for 5 months. Physical examination revealed a fever, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis without any evidence of inflammation or infection. Neurological examinations demonstrated dementia, frontal lobe signs, and spontaneous myoclonus. She developed akinetic mutism 4 months later. The levels of neuron-specific enolase and 14-3-3 protein were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid, and serial EEG showed periodic synchronous discharges. DNA analysis of the prion protein gene revealed a Pro102Leu mutation and therefore she was diagnosed as GSS102. Head MRI showed abnormal high signal intensity by T2 weighted image in bilateral caudate nuclei, putamen, frontal lobes, and white matter around the posterior horn of lateral ventricles at admission, and extension to global cerebral cortex and diffuse deep white matter with marked atrophy of bilateral frontal and cerebellar cortices 4 months later. In 123I-IMP SPECT study, uptake of RI decreased slightly only in left frontal region at admission, but decreased markedly in bilateral frontal region 4 months later. Analysis of autonomic function (analysis of noradrenarine in plasma and urine, coefficient of variation of R-R intervals before and after giving atenolol, Aschner's eyeball pressure test, intracutaneous atropine and adrenaline injection test) revealed sympathetic hyperactivity but normal parasympathetic activity. This is a very rare case of GSS102 with atypical MRI findings and clinical features like Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease rather than GSS102, presenting hyperthermia, tachycardia, and hyperhidrosis caused presumably by sympathetic hyperactivity as well as fatal familial insomnia. Therefore it is suggested that some factors besides the codon mutation in the prion protein gene may influence clinical symptoms in prion disease."}
{"id": "10203971", "title": "[Slowly progressive dressing and constructional apraxia: symptomatological study, especially for dressing apraxia].", "content": "[Slowly progressive dressing and constructional apraxia: symptomatological study, especially for dressing apraxia]. In 1982, Mesulam drew attention to a clinical picture characterized by slowly progressive aphasia without dementia, and since then, there have been many such reports. Recently, there have been 30 reports of slowly progressive apraxia. However, the nature of this apraxia is not uniform. We now report a patient with slowly progressive dressing and constructional apraxia. The patient is a 60-year-old right-handed woman with a 2-year history of a slowly progressive praxic disturbance. On admission, she was alert and aware of this difficulty. A neurological examination disclosed mild rigidity and myoclonus in her left hand. A neuropsychological assessment disclosed severe dressing apraxia, which was unlikely to be caused by dementia and moderate constructional apraxia. Her dressing apraxia was manifested in upper limbs, neck, trunk and lower limbs. However, she could express verbally the action of dressing. She also showed mild limb-kinetic apraxia, but neither ideational apraxia nor ideomotor apraxia was present. Aphasia and agnosia were also absent. On an MRI, the bilateral cerebral hemispheres were atrophic (right > left). A 99m-Tc ECD SPECT revealed decreased uptake in the right cerebral hemisphere and left frontal lobe, and an EEG showed slow waves over the right cerebral hemisphere. There have been 30 reports of slowly progressive apraxia. Most of these cases presented with slowly progressive clumsiness in one or both hands as an initial symptom, followed by constructional, ideomotor or dressing apraxia. Our patient differed from these cases in that dressing and constructional apraxia progressed slowly without any other apraxia except only mild limb-kinetic apraxia. There was a similarity between dressing apraxia of our patient and that of Marie's and Brain's original cases."}
{"id": "9916400", "title": "[Stepwise analysis of cerebral blood flow SPECT imaging on standard brain atlas in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type].", "content": "[Stepwise analysis of cerebral blood flow SPECT imaging on standard brain atlas in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type]. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) has been developed by Friston et al. to analyze focal changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) induced by brain activation. This automated and objective approach has the potential of being applied to single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) image data sets. This study evaluated an automated analysis of N-isopropyl-p[123I]iodoamphetamine SPECT (123I-IMP) imaging in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) using statistical parametric mapping '95 (SPM'95). Eighteen patients with clinically diagnosed mild to severe DAT who were classified into two groups and ten normal control subjects were studied. The SPECT device used was a triple-headed rotation gamma camera. All images were transformed into the standard anatomical space of the stereotaxic brain atlas of Talairach and Tournoux, and then smoothed. Statistical analyses were made between severe DAT, mild DAT and normal control groups. SPM analysis of 123I-IMP SPECT images revealed that the parietotemporal association areas and posterior cingulate gyri of both cerebral hemispheres were significantly decreased in CBF in mild DAT group compared to normal controls. In comparison of DAT groups, the right hippocampal area and basal forebrain were significantly decreased in CBF in severe DAT group. In conclusion, these results obtained by SPM analysis of SPECT images suggested that the right hippocampal area and basal forebrain followed the parietotemporal association areas and posterior cingulate gyri in the reduction of the rCBF in patients with DAT."}
{"id": "9895152", "title": "Functional and structural brain imagings in dementia.", "content": "Functional and structural brain imagings in dementia. Dementia is a major psychiatric problem in elderly people. Recent developments in brain imaging have made practical contributions to the diagnosis of dementia, which is caused by spread of various kinds of lesions in the brain. It is important to make accurate diagnoses of dementia in living patients, in order to decide upon treatment and to predict life expectancy. Magnetic resonance imaging can reveal vascular lesions more sensitively than can X-ray computed tomography. Imaging methods of brain structures, however, can show only atrophies in dementing disorders caused by degeneration, like Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, functional imaging methods like single-photon emission tomography and positron emission tomography, measuring regional cerebral blood flow and/or metabolism, have capabilities to detect hypofunctional brain areas, before structural changes appear in the degenerative dementias. A specific finding for Alzheimer's disease in emission tomographic examinations is relative hypofunction of the posterior cerebral association cortices on both or one side in dementia without evidence of any cause for the dementia. This finding is expected to be positive evidence for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9876968", "title": "Tau protein in cerebrospinal fluid is significantly increased at the earliest clinical stage of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Tau protein in cerebrospinal fluid is significantly increased at the earliest clinical stage of Alzheimer disease. The concentration of tau protein in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was determined in 40 patients with clinically diagnosed probable Alzheimer disease (AD) and in 36 cognitively healthy controls. A significant increase of CSF tau was found in the AD patients, even in 19 subjects with very mild dementia as defined by a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 25 and above. Using a cutoff value of 260 pg/mL the sensitivity of elevated tau was 0.89, the specificity was 0.97, and the proportion of correctly allocated cases was 95%. In the AD groups there were no significant associations between CSF tau level and age, age at onset, duration of illness, apolipoprotein E genotype, severity of cognitive impairment, or deficit in regional cerebral blood flow as measured using 99Tm-ethyl cystein dimer single photon emission computed tomography. The findings demonstrate that CSF tau is significantly increased at the earliest clinical stage of AD and shows only minimal overlap with age-matched cognitively healthy controls. This finding suggests that CSF tau could be a biological marker of AD even before dementia has developed."}
{"id": "9869326", "title": "Clinical neurochemistry: developments in dementia research based on brain bank material.", "content": "Clinical neurochemistry: developments in dementia research based on brain bank material. Brain tissue obtained at autopsy continues to provide unique opportunities in current dementia research. Not only is tissue analysis still essential for diagnosis, but investigation of neurochemical pathology, at a level of resolution beyond current in vivo imaging, continues to provide new insights into the involvement of neurotransmitter signalling systems. These are relevant to therapy which, with respect to symptoms such as cognitive impairment, psychosis and depression, is currently targeted to specific transmitter (cholinergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic) systems. This paper focuses on dopaminergic, cholinergic and histaminergic parameters in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In the normal striatum the dopamine transporter and D2 receptor exhibit distinct rostral-caudal distributions and D2 binding is affected by genetic polymorphism at the Taq 1A locus. The transporter is reduced in both DLB and PD but not AD, correlating with severity of extrapyramidal dysfunction, and receptor abnormalities are apparent in DLB patients responding adversely to neuroleptics. Striatal nicotine receptors are lost in all 3 disorders, further reduced as a result of neuroleptic medication, and elevated as a result of tobacco use. In the thalamus there are selective reductions in presynaptic cholinergic activity in DLB in the reticular nucleus which relate to symptoms of hallucinations and fluctuating consciousness prevalent in this disorder. In the hippocampus coupling of muscarinic M1 receptors, relevant to response to cholinergic therapy, is impaired in areas most affected by beta-amyloid plaques and intact in less affected areas. Analysis of histamine H2 receptors indicates that, despite presynaptic histamine abnormalities in AD, receptor numbers are normal. Such clinically and therapeutically relevant observations on human brain neurochemistry provide a basis for improving therapeutic strategies and prospects of diagnostic in vivo chemical imaging."}
{"id": "9858308", "title": "Decreased bilateral frontal lobe perfusion in dementia of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.", "content": "Decreased bilateral frontal lobe perfusion in dementia of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis."}
{"id": "9856190", "title": "[Frontotemporal dementia in a young woman with apparent schizophrenia].", "content": "[Frontotemporal dementia in a young woman with apparent schizophrenia]. In a woman aged 35 who for the last 5 years had been suffering from conduct disorders, especially kleptomania, compulsive cleaning behaviour and affective neglect of her children, psychodiagnostic examination initially suggested a delusional disorder. In view of the gradual aggravation of bizarre behaviour, the diagnosis 'schizophrenic psychosis of the hebephrenic type' was made; supplementary examination revealed no abnormalities. Finally, in view of the ununderstood and progressive behavioural changes, the diagnosis was reconsidered; on the basis of clinical findings, SPECT examination and results of repeated CT of the brain, the diagnosis of 'frontotemporal dementia, type Pick' was made."}
{"id": "9850913", "title": "The prognosis of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly.", "content": "The prognosis of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly. To determine whether or not subtypes of intellectual functioning are suitable to predict further cognitive decline in individuals with mild cognitive impairment. Naturalistic longitudinal study (mean interval 2.7 years). 41 subjects with mild cognitive impairment who attended a memory clinic. SIDAM, CT, SPECT, and ApoE genotype. At follow-up, 8 out of 41 patients (19.5%) with MCI had progressed to dementia, 8 patients (19.5%) had improved to normal levels of cognitive functioning, 25 patients (61%) had remained stable within the MCI group. At baseline the two prognostic groups differed significantly with regard to age, memory functions, orientation, and the degree of atrophy of the left medial temporal lobe on CT scan. The majority of MCI patients in this study remained cognitively stable within the observation period. Patients with older age, poorer test performance on memory tasks and orientation deficits are at higher risk of progressive decline to dementia. CT measures of medial temporal lobe atrophy may be a sensitive parameter of group discrimination."}
{"id": "9840717", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography image of benzodiazepine receptors in a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography image of benzodiazepine receptors in a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. A 50-year-old woman presented with progressive visual disturbance, ataxia, and dementia. The cerebral cortex became atrophic, as the disease progressed, and electroencephalography showed periodic synchronous discharges. The patient's prion gene revealed a point mutation (232Met to Arg), and a diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was made. Iomazenil single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed to assess neuronal degeneration. Accumulation of the tracer in the late images was severely decreased diffusely spread throughout the cerebral cortex. Our experience with this case suggests that iomazenil SPECT is useful for detecting neuronal degeneration in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease."}
{"id": "9834553", "title": "[Dementias and memory impairment of degenerative origin].", "content": "[Dementias and memory impairment of degenerative origin]. In dementias and memory impairments of neurodegenerative origin, imaging of brain metabolism and perfusion by means of positron or single-photon emission tomography or functional MRI has utility in the following domains: 1) pathophysiology, by revealing the topography and severity of synaptic damage even at the earliest stages of the disease, at a time when structural imaging is of little or no help; 2) diagnosis, by showing profiles of abnormalities characteristic to each disorder, even though such profiles are neither specific to, nor constantly present in each disorder; 3) pharmacology, by providing a surrogate marker to evaluate objectively the effect of the drug being tested; and 4) neuropsychology, by mapping both the brain structures that underlie each subtype of memory impairment, and the reorganisation of large-scale networks that subserve task performance despite established synaptic lesions."}
{"id": "9804125", "title": "Alzheimer's disease with asymmetric parietal lobe atrophy: a case report.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease with asymmetric parietal lobe atrophy: a case report. A 52-year-old, right-handed female presented with visuospatial dysfunction including left hemineglect, incomplete Balint's syndrome, and environmental agnosia, together with left-sided motor symptoms such as unskillful movement, dystonic postures, and myoclonus in the left hand, without significant dementia. Symptoms progressed to akinetic mutism prior to her death 10 years after onset of illness. Imaging studies such as MRI, SPECT, and PET studies showed severe, predominantly right-sided involvement of parietal and parieto-occipital areas. The motor signs might originate from the right parietal lesions such as area five or somatosensory area. Neuropathologic studies including immunocytochemistry showed tau-positive neurofibrillary tangles and abundant neuritic plaques with amyloid deposits, confirming the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. An analysis of serum apolipoprotein E revealed epsilon3/epsilon3 homozygosity. This case represents a variant of Alzheimer's disease conspicuous for progressive motor signs and visuospatial dysfunction with a striking laterality, reflecting asymmetric parietal involvement. Alzheimer's disease with asymmetric parietal atrophy is difficult to be clinically distinguished from corticobasal degeneration characterized by progressive unilateral motor signs and focal cortical signs."}
{"id": "9802497", "title": "Dynamic susceptibility contrast MR imaging of regional cerebral blood volume in Alzheimer disease: a promising alternative to nuclear medicine.", "content": "Dynamic susceptibility contrast MR imaging of regional cerebral blood volume in Alzheimer disease: a promising alternative to nuclear medicine. The goal of our study was to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity for Alzheimer disease of semiquantitative dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) MR imaging as compared with results of qualitative single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the same patients and with previously published semiquantitative SPECT results. Fifty subjects were studied: 19 patients with probable Alzheimer disease with moderate cognitive impairment, eight mildly impaired patients with possible or probable Alzheimer disease, 18 group-matched elderly healthy comparison subjects, and five elderly comparison patients with psychiatric diagnoses. Relative values of temporoparietal regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) were measured as a percentage of cerebellar rCBV, and group classification was assessed with logistic regression. The DSC MR imaging results were compared with SPECT scans in these same subjects and with previously published semiquantitative SPECT data. Temporoparietal rCBV ratios were reduced 20% bilaterally in the patients with Alzheimer disease. Using left and right temporoparietal rCBV as index measures, sensitivity was 95% in moderately affected patients with Alzheimer disease and 88% in patients with mild cases. Specificity was 96% in healthy comparison subjects and in psychiatric comparison subjects. Sensitivity with DSC MR imaging was considerably better than with visual clinical readings of SPECT scans (74% in moderate and 50% in mild Alzheimer disease cases), and was similar to previous published SPECT temporoparietal measurements (90%). Specificity with SPECT was 100% visually and 87% based on previous temporoparietal measurements. DSC MR imaging of rCBV is promising as a safe, potentially lower-cost alternative to nuclear medicine imaging for the evaluation of patients with dementia."}
{"id": "9798081", "title": "Nigrostriatal dopaminergic activities in dementia with Lewy bodies in relation to neuroleptic sensitivity: comparisons with Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Nigrostriatal dopaminergic activities in dementia with Lewy bodies in relation to neuroleptic sensitivity: comparisons with Parkinson's disease. In dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) mild extrapyramidal symptoms are associated with moderate reductions in substantia nigra neuron density and concentration of striatal dopamine. Many DLB patients treated with typical neuroleptics suffer severe adverse reactions, which result in decreased survival. In a series of DLB cases, with and without neuroleptic sensitivity, substantia nigra neuron densities, striatal dopamine and homovanillic acid concentrations, and autoradiographic [3H]mazindol and [3H]raclopride binding (to the dopamine transporter and D2 receptor, respectively) were analyzed and compared to control and idiopathic Parkinson's disease cases. D2 receptors were up-regulated in neuroleptictolerant DLB and Parkinson's disease compared to DLB without neuroleptic exposure and controls. D2 receptors were not up-regulated in DLB cases with severe neuroleptic reactions. Dopamine uptake sites were reduced concomitantly with substantia nigra neuron density in Parkinson's disease compared to controls, but there was no significant correlation between substantia nigra neuron density and [3H]mazindol binding in DLB groups. There was no significant difference in substantia nigra neuron density, [3H]mazindol binding, and dopamine or homovanillic acid concentration between neuroleptic-tolerant and -sensitive groups. Failure to up-regulate D2 receptors in response to neuroleptic blockade or reduced dopaminergic innervation may be the critical factor responsible for neuroleptic sensitivity."}
{"id": "9796365", "title": "Neurochemical imaging of Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative dementias.", "content": "Neurochemical imaging of Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative dementias. A wide variety of neurochemical and functional imaging approaches have been applied to the study of progressive dementias, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders. Despite considerable progress in the past decade, the cause(s) of most cases of AD remain undetermined and preventive or protective therapies are lacking. Specifically-designed imaging procedures have permitted the testing of pathophysiological hypotheses of the etiology and progression of AD, and have yielded important insights in several areas including the potential roles of cerebral cortical cholinergic lesions, cellular inflammation, and losses of cortical synapses. From the perspective of clinical diagnosis, PET glucose metabolism imaging with use of [18F]2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is the most sensitive and specific imaging modality yet identified. The overall performance of PET FDG is favorable for routine clinical evaluation of suspected AD, and will likely gain increasing utilization in the near future. Assessments of glucose metabolism and other, specific aspects of neurochemistry in AD will provide direct measures of therapeutic drug actions and may permit distinction of symptomatic versus disease-modifying therapies as they are developed and introduced in clinical trials."}
{"id": "9785148", "title": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and Apo E4 in medial temporal lobe dementias. Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging.", "content": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and Apo E4 in medial temporal lobe dementias. Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging. In a prospective study of more than 200 cases of dementia and 119 controls, annual technetium-99m-hexamethyl-propylene amineoxime (99mTC-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and annual medial temporal lobe (MTL) oriented X-ray computed tomography (CT) have been used to evaluate the diagnostic potential of functional and structural neuroimaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Some subjects have had up to 7 annual evaluations. So far, of 151 who have died, 143 (95%) have come to necropsy. Histology is known for 118, of whom 80 had Alzheimer's disease (AD), 24 had other \"non-AD\" dementias, and 14 controls with no cognitive deficit in life also had no significant central nervous system pathology. To compare the findings in the dementias with the profile of structural and functional imaging in the cognitively normal elderly, scan data from 105 living, elderly controls without cognitive deficit have also been included in the analysis. All clinical diagnoses were according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd ed., rev.; DSM-III-R) criteria, and all histopathological diagnoses according to the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) criteria. Early data from this cohort have suggested that the combination of both MTL atrophy seen on CT with parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT may predict the pathology of AD. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of the NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria could be assessed in this cohort against the gold standard of histopathology. The diagnostic potential of CT evidence of MTL atrophy alone, SPECT evidence of parietotemporal hypoperfusion alone, and the combination of both of these scan changes in the same individual could then be compared against the diagnostic accuracy of clinical operational criteria in the pathologically confirmed cases. Furthermore, all of these modalities could be compared with the diagnostic accuracy of apolipoprotein E4 (Apo E4) genotyping to predict AD in the histopathologically confirmed cohort. In this population, NINCDS \"probable-AD\" was 100% specific, 49% sensitive, and 66% accurate; \"possible-AD\" was only 61% specific, but 93% sensitive and 77% accurate; and the combination of both \"probable-AD\" and \"possible-AD\" was 61% specific, 96% sensitive, and 85% accurate. DSM-III-R criteria were 51% sensitive, 97% specific, and 66% accurate. In the same cases and including the 105 living, elderly controls, the diagnostic accuracy of the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging (OPTIMA) scanning criteria showed CT alone to be 85% sensitive, 78% specific, and 80% accurate; SPECT alone had 89% sensitivity, 80% specificity, and 83% accuracy; and the combination of the two was 80% sensitive, 93% specific, and 88% accurate. The Apo E4 genotype was 74% sensitive but yielded 40% false positives in the histologically confirmed series. The diagnostic accuracy afforded by this method of CT and SPECT used alone is better than that of any established clinical criteria and reveals that the combination of MTL atrophy and parietotemporal hypoperfusion is common in AD, much less common in other dementias, and rare in normal controls. In the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria \"possible-AD\" cases, the combination of CT and SPECT findings alone were better in all diagnostic indices than the presence of Apo E4 alone in predicting AD. The frequent occurrence of MTL atrophy in AD and also in other \"non-AD\" dementias later in the course of the disease suggests the concept of medial temporal lobe dementia. This could explain some of the overlap of clinical profiles in the dementias, particularly as the dementia progresses, making clinical differential diagnosis difficult. In this context, the use of SPECT can significantl"}
{"id": "9781516", "title": "Emergence of artistic talent in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Emergence of artistic talent in frontotemporal dementia. To describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and imaging features of five patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) who acquired new artistic skills in the setting of dementia. Creativity in the setting of dementia has recently been reported. We describe five patients who became visual artists in the setting of FTD. Sixty-nine FTD patients were interviewed regarding visual abilities. Five became artists in the early stages of FTD. Their history, artistic process, neuropsychology, and anatomy are described. On SPECT or pathology, four of the five patients had the temporal variant of FTD in which anterior temporal lobes are involved but the dorsolateral frontal cortex is spared. Visual skills were spared but language and social skills were devastated. Loss of function in the anterior temporal lobes may lead to the \"facilitation\" of artistic skills. Patients with the temporal lobe variant of FTD offer a window into creativity."}
{"id": "9777480", "title": "Quantitative evidence for neuroanatomic and neuropsychological markers in dementia of the Alzheimer's type.", "content": "Quantitative evidence for neuroanatomic and neuropsychological markers in dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Meta-analytic methods were used to determine the sensitivity of neuropsychological, structural, and physiological measures to temporal-hippocampal system function in dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Effect sizes are reported for the California Verbal Learning Test, the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised, structural (i.e., magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), and functional (i.e., positron emission tomography [PET], single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]) neuroimaging methods. Overall, effect sizes from MRI studies are larger than those obtained from SPECT and PET, respectively, but not as large as those obtained from the neuropsychological measures. On the basis of this finding, the neuropsychological and gross pathologic similarities between Alzheimer's disease, other dementing conditions, and mixed dementias, warrants the coupling of neuropsychological evaluation for its sensitivity with neuroimaging visualization for its specificity in improving diagnostic and differential accuracy."}
{"id": "9774820", "title": "[Differential cognitive profiles of fronto-temporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Differential cognitive profiles of fronto-temporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease]. When the clinical picture consists of prominent cognitive impairments (e.g. amnesia) with relatively mild behavioral symptoms, it can be very difficult to distinguish frontal lobe dementia (FLD) from Alzheimer disease (AD). However, these conditions may have distinct cognitive profiles that could be detected by means of neuropsychological testing. The objective was to examine the early differential cognitive feature between FLD and AD. Twelve patients with FLD, 20 patients with AD, and 20 normal subjects matched for age and educational level were evaluated with the Folstein Mini Mental State Examination, the Signoret Memory Battery, the Boston Naming Test, Verbal Fluency (FAS), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, and the Trail Making Test. The FLD patients met the Lund and Manchester criteria, and the AD patients met the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINDS-ADRDA) criteria for clinically probable AD. FLD and AD patients were matched for the severity of dementia using the Global Deterioration Scale (3.8 +/- 0.3 versus 3.9 +/- 0.5 respectively). Mean Z scores were calculated in order to facilitate the comparison between the neuropsychological profiles obtained. FLD patients scored significantly better than AD patients in memory test, calculation, visuospatial abilities, and the naming test. AD patients performed better on executive tasks. These findings suggest that neuropsychological examination may be useful in differential diagnosis between FLD and AD"}
{"id": "9752059", "title": "[Revised consensus 'Diagnosis of the dementia syndrome'].", "content": "[Revised consensus 'Diagnosis of the dementia syndrome']. Dementia is a clinical syndrome and is diagnosed on clinical grounds. Various types can be distinguished: the Alzheimer-type, frontal lobe dementia and subcortical dementia syndromes. Neuropsychological examination can contribute to the clinical diagnosis. Differentiation from delirium and depression, which may co-exist with dementia, is necessary. Once a dementia syndrome has been diagnosed its cause has to be ascertained. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause and can often be diagnosed clinically. The clinical suspicion of vascular dementia has to be confirmed by imaging methods. Drug intoxication may cause or contribute to dementia. Blood tests should be performed routinely, but EEG, CT or MRI, SPECT and genetic tests can be carried out on clinical indication. Subsequently the need for care of the patient has to be established, as well as the ability of the carers to meet it. Regular follow-up is necessary. A definite diagnosis can only be made post-mortem when neuropathological examination has been performed. The organisation of diagnosis in the dementia syndrome should preferably take place in specialised multidisciplinary teams."}
{"id": "9749569", "title": "The early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Current accepted clinical criteria for the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) provide high sensitivity for detecting parkinsonism but generally show poor specificity for identifying brainstem Lewy body disease. Biochemical markers that can be used to reliably diagnose clinical and preclinical PD have thus far been sought unsuccessfully. It is now known that some PD kindreds have a mutation of the alpha-synuclein gene, but this cannot be used as a genetic marker for most familial and sporadic cases. Functional imaging provides a means of discriminating typical from atypical PD, revealing characteristic patterns of loss of dopaminergic function. In addition, PET and SPECT show preserved levels of striatal metabolism and dopamine receptor binding in PD, whereas levels are reduced in the atypical variants. [18F]Dopa PET can also detect preclinical PD. In one series there was a reported 40% prevalence of preclinical dopaminergic dysfunction in asymptomatic adult relatives of familial PD patients. Finally, PET and SPECT can both be used to follow PD progression objectively. Such studies suggest an annual 4 to 12% loss of dopamine terminal function in early PD and a preclinical disease window of only a few years. In the future, functional imaging is likely to play an increasingly important role in assessing the efficacy of putative neuroprotective agents."}
{"id": "9745353", "title": "[A study of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the presenium and senium].", "content": "[A study of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the presenium and senium]. Recently, with the increase in elderly population, we have had more opportunities to administer neuroleptics to elderly patients for hallucinatory delusional state, delirium, psychomotor excitement, wandering etc. However, little is known about the characteristics of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) in elderly patients, which is the most serious side effect of neuroleptics. In this paper, we present the clinical course of five NMS patients in the presenium and senium. Case 1 was 72-year-old male who was diagnosed as having dementia of Alzheimer's type (with late onset). He showed nocturnal wandering, insomnia, and irritability. Tiapride 60 mg per day had been administered previously. Just after the addition of oxypertine 10 mg per day, NMS occurred, and he died of pneumonia a week later. Case 2 was 75-year-old male who was diagnosed as having vascular dementia. He showed insomnia, hyperactivity and wandering. He had been given levomepromazine (LPZ) 10 mg per day over a long period of time. At first, he had daily episodic fever, however, serum CPK levels did not increase at that time. A month later, all the symptoms of NMS appeared and then the patient's condition suddenly deteriorated and he died three days later. Case 3 was a 64-year-old male who was diagnosed as having dementia of Alzheimer's type (with early onset). He showed insomnia, irritability and violence. Tiapride 50-125 mg per day was administered along with oxypertine 50-115 mg per day. Almost two months later, NMS occurred. He had daily episodic fever at first, extrapyramidal symptoms and autonomic instabilities gradually increased. Soon after symptoms of NMS were completed. In this case, NMS seemed to be induced by bacterial pneumonia after long term administration of LPZ 5 mg per day. Case 4 was a 75-year-old female who was diagnosed as having dementia of Alzheimer's type (with late onset). She showed hallucinatory delusional state. Although she had autonomic instabilities just after adminstration of haloperidol 1-2 mg per day, NMS itself occurred after discontinuing the neuroleptic. Case 5 was a 61-year-old female who was diagnosed as having schizophrenia at the age of forty. She was given various neuroleptics over a period of time. The neuroimaging in SPECT showed her cerebral cortex was generally hypoactive. She had a tendency to have autonomic instabilities after the administration of relatively high potential neuroleptics. Risperidone 3-6 mg per day was administered, and almost a month later, autonomic instabilities increased and she was diagnosed as having NMS. All the patients would be able to have brain dysfunction, which suggested that such patients may be liable to NMS. In our patients, NMS occurred after the additional administration of oxypertine 10 mg per day or after long time administration of LPZ 5 mg per day. It was suggested that NMS could occur after the administration of low dose and relatively low potential neuroleptics in elderly patients. Our 3 of 5 patients showed the delayed type of NMS, which might be relatively more frequent in senior and presenior patients than in younger patients. In case 3, NMS was induced by the somatic disease (bacterial pneumonia), however in other cases, NMS was not always induced by somatic disease. Our 4 of 5 patients experienced some of the symptoms of NMS--episodic fever, extrapyramidal symptoms and autonomic instabilities--before the onset of NMS. Such symptoms may be \"pre-steps\" to NMS. Once NMS occurred, the patient's systemic condition tended to deteriorate acutely. Due to the fact that our 2 of 5 patients died, it was suggested that the prognosis of the NMS patients in presenium and senium tends to be much worse. It is important to find the \"pre-steps\" to NMS and treat them as soon as possible for better prognosis."}
{"id": "9742880", "title": "[Giant cell arteritis with bilateral obstruction of the internal carotid artery--report of an autopsy case].", "content": "[Giant cell arteritis with bilateral obstruction of the internal carotid artery--report of an autopsy case]. Internal carotid artery involvement and dementia occur infrequently in patients with giant cell (temporal) arteritis. A 75-year-old woman admitted with progressive cognitive decline, drowsiness and headache was diagnosed as having giant cell arteritis by temporal artery biopsy (TAB). High dose corticosteroid improved inflammatory reaction but did not improve his cognitive function. Cerebral angiograms showed obstruction of both internal carotid arteries at the siphon. Brain MRI showed only small cerebral infarcts in the basal ganglia and corona radiata bilaterally. However, brain SPECT disclosed reduced cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobe bilaterally. A postmortem examination revealed bilateral parietal infarcts and isolated giant cell arteritis involving the both internal carotid arteries at the siphon. We speculated that perfusion insufficiency and multiple cerebral infarction due to bilateral internal carotid artery occlusion had caused this neurologic deterioration."}
{"id": "9735982", "title": "Follow-up of improvement in regional cerebral blood flow and mental status in Alzheimer's disease: a case report.", "content": "Follow-up of improvement in regional cerebral blood flow and mental status in Alzheimer's disease: a case report. Cerebral SPECT imaging has the potential to make important contributions in the follow-up care of patients with Alzheimer's disease. An unusual case of a patient who showed a follow-up cerebral blood flow pattern different from that routinely seen in Alzheimer's disease patients is reported here. Qualitative and voxel-based objective evaluation of follow-up scans revealed improvement in parietotemporal deficits that had been observed on a baseline study. This change was observed without significant further deterioration in ratings by dementia batteries. This case shows that a baseline regional cerebral blood flow study might be necessary for reference and comparison in the proper follow-up care of Alzheimer's disease patients."}
{"id": "9731543", "title": "Neuroimaging for diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Neuroimaging for diagnosis of dementia. Although many clinicians consider neuroimaging studies as optional for the differential diagnosis of dementia, clinical experience suggests that they can improve diagnostic accuracy. Data are limited, however, on sensitivity, specificity, and cost-effectiveness of various neuroimaging techniques. The author reviews advantages and disadvantages of neuroimaging techniques for the differential diagnosis of dementia and describes strategies used for early detection of Alzheimer's disease, including combining positron emission tomography scanning with genetic risk assessment. Such approaches could provide a means for in vivo therapeutic monitoring of brain function during experimental antidementia treatment trials."}
{"id": "9728730", "title": "Early-onset Alzheimer's disease due to mutations of the presenilin-1 gene on chromosome 14: a 7-year follow-up of a patient with a mutation at codon 139.", "content": "Early-onset Alzheimer's disease due to mutations of the presenilin-1 gene on chromosome 14: a 7-year follow-up of a patient with a mutation at codon 139. Mutations in the presenilin-1 gene (PS-1 gene) on chromosome 14 have recently been identified as a cause of familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD). To our knowledge, only two German EOAD patients with mutations in the PS-1 gene have been identified thus far. Herein we report the case of a German EOAD patient with a family history of dementia and a missense mutation at codon 139 (M139V) of the PS-1 gene. The patient came to our clinic for the first time when he was 44 years old. During the following 7 years, his Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score dropped from 24 to 0. Myocloni were an early neurological symptom that was already present during the first consultation. We could demonstrate that myoclonic activity was of cortical origin using a back-averaging method. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed only slight changes in the early stage of the disease. Follow-up MRI studies showed progression of bitemporal ventricular enlargement and progressive frontal and temporal cortical atrophy. Although the majority of EOAD patients belong to the sporadic (non-genetic) type of AD, early-onset dementia, early myocloni and a familial history of AD should direct attention to the possibility of a genetic form of AD."}
{"id": "9724384", "title": "Cerebral blood flow measurement in patients with impaired consciousness: usefulness of 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission tomography in clinical practice.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow measurement in patients with impaired consciousness: usefulness of 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission tomography in clinical practice. The relationship between impairment of consciousness and quantitative cerebral blood flow (CBF) was investigated. The mean CBF of the whole brain was measured by the Patlak-plot method using technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime single-photon emission tomography (99mTc-HMPAO SPET) in patients with the following diseases: cerebral infarction, intraparenchymal haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, brain tumour and cerebral contusion. The clinical symptoms were evaluated according to the severity of impaired consciousness, aphasia and dementia. Four hundred and eighty-five CBF measurements were performed. Patients with alert consciousness showed an age-related decline in mean CBF. Patients with aphasia showed a significant reduction in mean CBF compared with those without aphasia. Impaired consciousness was proportional to reduction in mean CBF regardless of types of pathology, and the size of lesion did not influence the mean CBF. Patients with dementia showed a significant reduction in mean CBF proportional to the severity of dementia. The quantitative measurement of CBF using 99mTc-HMPAO SPET is reliable in clinical evaluations."}
{"id": "9711365", "title": "The role of SPECT scanning in a neuropsychiatry unit.", "content": "The role of SPECT scanning in a neuropsychiatry unit. Single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) studies allow the assessment of cerebral blood flow and have been increasingly used as a clinical tool in neurology and neuropsychiatry. This paper examines the contribution of SPECT to the clinical management of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders, in particular patients with atypical or early onset dementia. All patients admitted to an eight-bed neuropsychiatry unit in a general hospital setting who had undergone SPECT scanning over a 15-month period were reviewed. Information was collected on clinical diagnosis, neuropsychological testing, structural neuroimaging and SPECT. SPECT abnormalities were present in 88% of patients. The pattern of SPECT abnormality was concordant with structural neuroimaging in 65% of patients and concordant with neuropsychological testing in 82% of patients. The sensitivity and specificity of SPECT was 89%/79% for Alzheimer's disease and 56%/79% for frontotemporal dementias. SPECT results must be interpreted in the context of other clinical and diagnostic assessments. In no single case was the clinical diagnosis made solely on the basis of a SPECT result. SPECT was of maximum clinical use in the diagnosis of frontotemporal dementias and in confirming the diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia. SPECT was valuable in Lewy body dementia, vascular dementia and head injury. Its clinical utility in other psychiatric disorders remains unclear."}
{"id": "9700660", "title": "Combination of the different biological markers for increasing specificity of in vivo Alzheimer's testing.", "content": "Combination of the different biological markers for increasing specificity of in vivo Alzheimer's testing. In view of existing drugs (acetylcholine esterase inhibitors) and emerging therapeutic compounds (e.g. neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory compounds), CSF markers would be of great use to improve the clinical diagnostic accuracy of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Correct identification of AD would be especially important early in the course of the disease, when the clinical diagnosis is difficult, and drugs have the greatest potential of being effective. Biochemical markers for AD include ApoE genotyping, where the ApoE epsilon 4 allele has proven to have a high predictive value for AD. Biochemical markers for AD also include several potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers: beta-amyloid(1-42), possibly reflecting amyloid deposition and formation of senile plaques; PHFtau protein a marker for the phosphorylation state of tau, and formation of neurofibrillary tangles; (total)tau protein, a normal axonal protein, as a marker for ongoing neuronal and axonal degeneration; synaptic vesicle proteins, e.g. synaptotagmin, a synaptic vesicle protein which is found in the CSF, as markers for synaptic activity or degeneration; neuromodulin or growth-associated protein GAP-43, as a marker for synaptic degeneration, and the CSF/serum albumin ratio, as a marker for blood-brain barrier damage, used to exclude patients with concomitant cerebrovascular pathology. However, although CSF markers may identify different pathogenic processes in AD, there is no such process that is specific for AD, and thus little hope of ever finding a single CSF biochemical marker that gives an absolute discrimination between AD and other dementia disorders. Instead, combination of several CSF biochemical markers, each reflecting a pathogenic process, may increase both the sensitivity and specificity. Further, the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of AD may increase if the diagnosis is based on the summarised information gained from the clinical examination, brain-imaging techniques (SPECT, CT/MRT scans), and biochemical markers. Using this approach, CSF markers have a large potential to help to differentiate AD from the most problematic differential diagnoses, especially age-associated memory impairment, depressive pseudo-dementia, Parkinson's disease, and frontal lobe dementia."}
{"id": "9693235", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia with glial cytoplasmic inclusions.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia with glial cytoplasmic inclusions. We report a 80-year-old woman who suffered from primary progressive aphasia for 3 years. Cranial CT and MRI studies showed moderate cerebral atrophy, more marked in the left frontal and temporal lobes, and SPECT brain scans revealed marked hypometabolism in the left frontal and temporal lobes. Neuropathologic examination of a temporal lobe biopsy demonstrated Gallyas-positive intracytoplasmic inclusions looking like fibrillary tangles and of Gallyas-positive cell processes, probably from glial cells. Glial intracytoplasmic inclusions were immunolabelled with antibodies to ubiquitin and with phosphorylion-dependent antitau antibodies, indicating the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau in the inclusions. There was only mild pathology of cortical neurons consisting in rare perikarya diffusely stained with antitau antibodies. There were no senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, 'achromatic' neurons, ballooned cells, Pick or Lewy bodies, nor microvacuoles or spongiform changes of the neuropil. The glial intracytoplasmic inclusions found in this case were similar to those found in multiple system atrophy, and differ from the cortical changes hitherto reported in primary progressive aphasia."}
{"id": "9682940", "title": "Latent cerebral artery stenoses on magnetic resonance angiography in a patient diagnosed as probable Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Latent cerebral artery stenoses on magnetic resonance angiography in a patient diagnosed as probable Alzheimer disease. A 65-year-old woman with hypertension developed slowly progressive memory disturbance and disorientation. She was diagnosed as having Alzheimer-type dementia according to clinical criteria. Later her cognitive deterioration was noted to fluctuate in parallel to her blood pressure. Magnetic resonance angiography and single photon emission computed tomography showed bilateral middle cerebral artery stenoses and middle cerebral artery watershed dominant hypoperfusion. It is postulated that the patient's cognitive disturbance may have originated from vascular lesions."}
{"id": "9673712", "title": "Use of automated image registration to generate mean brain SPECT image of Alzheimer's patients.", "content": "Use of automated image registration to generate mean brain SPECT image of Alzheimer's patients. The purpose of this study was to compute and compare the group mean HMPAO brain SPECT images of patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) and age matched control subjects after transformation of the individual images to a standard size and shape. Ten patients with Alzheimer's disease (age 71.6 +/- 5.0 yr) and ten age matched normal subjects (age 71.0 +/- 6.1 yr) participated in this study. Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT and X-ray CT scans were acquired for each subject. SPECT images were normalized to an average activity of 100 counts/pixel. Individual brain images were transformed to a standard size and shape with the help of Automated Image Registration (AIR). Realigned brain SPECT images of both groups were used to generate mean and standard deviation images by arithmetic operations on voxel based numerical values. Mean images of both groups were compared by applying the unpaired t-test on a voxel by voxel basis to generate three dimensional T-maps. X-ray CT images of individual subjects were evaluated by means of a computer program for brain atrophy. A significant decrease in relative radioisotope (RI) uptake was present in the bilateral superior and inferior parietal lobules (p < 0.05), bilateral inferior temporal gyri, and the bilateral superior and middle frontal gyri (p < 0.001). The mean brain atrophy indices for patients and normal subjects were 0.853 +/- 0.042 and 0.933 +/- 0.017 respectively, the difference being statistically significant (p < 0.001). The use of a brain image standardization procedure increases the accuracy of voxel based group comparisons. Thus, intersubject averaging enhances the capacity for detection of abnormalities in functional brain images by minimizing the influence of individual variation."}
{"id": "9660012", "title": "Correlation between contingent negative variation and regional cerebral blood flow.", "content": "Correlation between contingent negative variation and regional cerebral blood flow. The relationship between contingent negative variation (CNV) and regional cerebral blood flow was investigated, using the stable xenon computed tomography method. Seventeen cases of chronic multiple cerebral infarction in the perforating artery areas (vascular dementia, mean age 67.0), 6 cases of Alzheimer's disease (mean age 69.5) and 8 healthy controls (mean age 62.5) were studied. Regional cerebral blood flows in the frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortex, frontal, temporal and occipital white matter, caudate nucleus, putamen and thalamus were measured. The amplitude of early CNV was significantly smaller in the vascular dementia group than in the healthy control group. The blood flows in the parietal cortex and thalamus were significantly lower in the vascular dementia group than in the healthy control group. There was a significant positive correlation between the amplitude of early CNV and frontal cortex blood flow. No significant correlations were present between the CNV and the other regional cerebral blood flows nor in healthy controls. The amplitude of CNV has been reported to be decreased in dementia. From the present study, the amplitude of early CNV was considered to be influenced by the blood flow in the frontal cortex."}
{"id": "9658479", "title": "[Progressive aphasia without dementia].", "content": "[Progressive aphasia without dementia]. Slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia is considered as a degenerative disorder that can be differentiated of others well-known neurodegenerative disorders. We present a case report of a patient with slowly progressive aphasia, characterized by a progressive anomia and without generalized dementia. The patient was evaluated in the last four years: a neuropsychological assessment, a neurological exploration and structural (MRI) and functional (SPECT) neuroimaging were performed. This case is interesting on account of a selective implication of the left temporal hemisphere is showed in the pathogenesis of this disorder."}
{"id": "9656252", "title": "[Caregiver burden in dementia: evaluation with a Japanese version of the Zarit caregiver burden interview].", "content": "[Caregiver burden in dementia: evaluation with a Japanese version of the Zarit caregiver burden interview]. Dementia patients need assistance or supervision in their daily activities. This often places a major burden on their caregivers. The caregiver burden is reportedly a critical determinant for negative caregiving outcomes. However, in Japan, no study evaluating the burden experienced by caregivers for patients with established dementia diagnosis with a standardized instrument has been carried out. The Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI) is a standardized, validated, reliable tool for assessment of the burden of caregivers for dementia patients, and has been used in many studies in North America. In this study, we arranged a Japanese version of the ZBI and applied it to caregivers who were caring dementia patients. After examining the reliability and validity of this version, we then studied a relationship between patients' impairments and caregivers' burden. Subjects were 117 dementia patients. Diagnosis of dementia was made through extensive examinations including MRI and PET/SPECT of the brain and based on appropriate clinical diagnostic criteria of each disorder, which included Alzheimer's disease (n = 76), frontotemporal dementia (n = 10), vascular dementia (n = 11), progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 3), corticobasal degeneration (n = 5), dementia with Lewy bodies (n = 11), and normal pressure hydrocephalus (n = 1). The patients included 80 women and 37 men; the mean age was 72.3 +/- 7.7 (SD) years. Trained nurses interviewed a principal caregiver of each patient by using the ZBI. The caregivers included the patients' spouses (n = 62), offsprings (n = 17), offspring's spouses (n = 37), and sibling (n = 1). Cognitive, functional, and neuropsychiatric impairments and severity of dementia were assessed with standardized instruments of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Hyogo Activities of Daily Living Scale (HADLS), Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), and Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), respectively. The mean total ZBI score was 28.6 +/- 15.3 (SD), the Personal strain (PS) score was 17.4 +/- 8.9, and Role strain (RS) score was 6.5 +/- 5.7. All three scores had high Cronbach's alpha coefficients (Total: 0.88, PS: 0.78, RS: 0.80) and had high Pearson's correlation coefficients with a single global rating of burden (Total: 0.69, PS: 0.65, RS: 0.60). All ZBI scores were significantly correlated with MMSE, CDR, HADLS, and NPI scores. A stepwise regression analysis revealed only the HADLS score and NPI score as significant predictors of ZBI scores. This Japanese version of the ZBI has a sufficient reliability and validity comparable to those reported for the original version. Our results suggested that the patients' functional and neuropsychiatric impairments were main patient's factors to increase the caregiver's burden."}
{"id": "9638957", "title": "Clinical studies of cerebral and urinary tract function in elderly people with urinary incontinence.", "content": "Clinical studies of cerebral and urinary tract function in elderly people with urinary incontinence. Brain and urinary tract function have been studied in a group of 128 geriatric patients with established urinary incontinence. Median age was 79 years. About half suffered from dementia. A group of 27 continent patients of similar age and cognitive status was used in some comparisons. It was expected that impaired voluntary control of voiding (urge incontinence) would be associated with particular aspects of cognitive impairment and dysfunction of specific regions of the brain. Comprehensive investigations, including 24 h monitoring of incontinence, videourodynamic testing, cognitive testing and SPECT brain scanning, demonstrated that genuine urge incontinence could be proven in half of the patients and was frequently accompanied by reduced sensation of bladder filling, especially in males. Genuine urge incontinence with reduced bladder filling sensation led to greater urine loss than other types of incontinence. Overall, cognitive function was slightly more impaired in patients with genuine urge incontinence, but the strongest and most specific association was with impaired temporal orientation. Genuine urge incontinence with reduced bladder filling sensation was associated with global underperfusion of the cerebral cortex and more specifically, with underperfusion of the frontal areas of the brain, especially on the right. These results are consistent with PET scan observations of Blok et al. (Brain 1997;20:112-121), which show that areas in the right anterior cingulate gyrus and right inferior frontal gyrus are involved in voluntary voiding of normal males."}
{"id": "9633716", "title": "SPECT study of a German CADASIL family: a phenotype with migraine and progressive dementia only.", "content": "SPECT study of a German CADASIL family: a phenotype with migraine and progressive dementia only. We describe the clinical, molecular, genetic, MRI, and SPECT features of a German family with autosomal dominant migraine and dementia, mapping to the cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) locus. We studied the correlation of cerebral blood flow, MRI, and cognitive function. CADASIL is a small-vessel disease of the brain mapped to chromosome 19p13.1. Mutations of the Notch3 gene cause this disorder. Most phenotypes are characterized by transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) and lacunar strokes leading to dementia. Migraine is frequent. A single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) study of this disorder has not yet been published. We studied 13 individuals clinically and performed neuroimaging studies with MRI and SPECT. Genetic analysis strongly supported linkage to the CADASIL locus, and the disease haplotype was found in six individuals. Analysis by single-strand confirmation polymorphism did not identify Notch3 mutations. All affected individuals had MRI white matter hyperintensities and four individuals had additional basal ganglial signal abnormalities. Four affected individuals had migraine, two of whom had slowly progressive dementia. TIAs, stroke, and focal neurologic signs were absent. Cerebral blood flow reduction in SPECT studies of affected individuals matched with MRI signal abnormalities. Cognitive impairment was linked to signal abnormalities and hypoperfusion in the basal ganglia. Demented patients had a pattern of frontal, temporal, and basal ganglial hypoperfusion. We describe a CADASIL phenotype that is characterized by the absence of focal neurologic symptoms and present the first SPECT study of this disorder."}
{"id": "9629553", "title": "[Tau protein. A potential biological indicator for early detection of Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[Tau protein. A potential biological indicator for early detection of Alzheimer disease]. In 40 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in 5 patients with non-AD dementia and in 36 cognitively normal controls the concentration of protein tau was determined in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Of the AD patients, 19 were very mildly demented (MMSE score from 25 to 28). Even in these patients, CSF tau was significantly more elevated than in controls. In the non-AD patients protein tau was less increased. Among the AD patients there was no association between CSF tau and severity of cognitive impairment or deficit in cerebral blood flow, determined by SPECT. Our findings suggest that CSF tau may be elevated even at the predementia stage of AD and be useful as a biological marker for the early recognition of the disease."}
{"id": "9619079", "title": "[A case presenting progressive hand clumsiness and discriminative sensory impairment].", "content": "[A case presenting progressive hand clumsiness and discriminative sensory impairment]. A 58-year-old right-handed woman had presented slowly progressive clumsiness of the right hand over the past 8 years. The clumsiness of the right hand was characterized by difficulty in using scissors and a comb or in imitating finger patterns that resembled to limb kinetic apraxia. Mild rigidity, weakness and synkinetic movement were noted in the right upper extremity. Two-point discrimination, traced-figure identification and stereognosia were impaired on the right hand. However, she was neither demented nor aphasic. Brain MRIs revealed atrophy of the pre- and post-central gyri with marked preponderance on the left postcentral gyrus. 99mTc-ECD-SPECT uptake was decreased in the above brain atrophy areas. Upper limb SEPs were normal, but transcranial magnetic stimulation over the cortical hand motor area failed to evoke potentials from the right thenar muscles. These unique features seem to reflect focal cerebral degenerative process of unknown etiology, which may be classified into an asymmetric cortical degeneration syndrome (Caselli and Jack, 1992)."}
{"id": "9613718", "title": "Where do we stand on neuroprotection? Where do we go from here?", "content": "Where do we stand on neuroprotection? Where do we go from here? Neuroprotective therapies are interventions that produce enduring benefits by favorably influencing underlying etiology or pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Neuroprotection remains an unachieved goal of experimental therapeutics. A variety of pathogenetic mechanisms and propagating factors have been implicated in the emergence and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Antioxidative strategies have been the focus of neuroprotective trials for PD, but interpretation of the outcomes has been controversial. Traditional end points that respond to enhanced dopaminergic activity may not be suitable for distinguishing symptomatic from neuroprotective effects. Inferences supporting neuroprotective effects in clinical trials would be strengthened by attention to unmet therapeutic needs or relevant clinical end points that are not currently amenable to dopaminergic treatments. Progressive postural instability and intellectual impairment (dementia) represent two major unmet therapeutic needs in PD that are worthy outcomes in therapeutic trials. Imaging tools such as [18F]-dopa PET and [123I] B-CIT SPECT may provide valid and reliable biologic markers of nigrostriatal degeneration. Controlled clinical trials focused on unmet therapeutic needs, and involving valid biologic markers is expected to play a central role in development of neuroprotective therapy for PD."}
{"id": "9597661", "title": "A voxel-based analysis of cerebral perfusion in dementia and depression of old age.", "content": "A voxel-based analysis of cerebral perfusion in dementia and depression of old age. Thirty-nine elderly depressed patients as well as 15 demented patients with Alzheimer's disease and 11 healthy volunteers were imaged at rest with a high resolution single-slice 12-detector head scanner (SME-Neuro 900) and the cerebral perfusion marker 99mTc-Exametazime (HM-PAO). Statistical parametric maps were computed to compare early- and late-onset depressed, Alzheimer patients and healthy volunteers and to examine associations between regional perfusion and clinical and MRI variables. Patients with late-onset depression showed reductions in temporal lobe perfusion compared with early-onset depression and controls. Alzheimer patients had the expected reduced perfusion in temporoparietal and prefontal cortex, as well as basal ganglia, compared with healthy controls. Compared with depressed patients, they showed a relative reduction in temporoparietal cortex, only. This difference was more pronounced between Alzheimer patients and early onset, compared to late-onset patients with depression. Periventricular white matter changes on MRI were associated with temporal lobe reductions of tracer uptake in depression. In the Alzheimer group, deep white matter MRI changes were associated with frontal perfusion deficits. Our results support a vulnerability hypothesis, which predicts that patients with late-onset depression will show more brain changes than patients with an early onset of their illness. Statistical parametric mapping in patients with organic psychiatric brain syndromes is feasible and promising as a clinical and research method."}
{"id": "9594549", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow of patients with age-associated memory impairment and the early stage of Alzheimer's disease. A study by SPECT using the ARG method].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow of patients with age-associated memory impairment and the early stage of Alzheimer's disease. A study by SPECT using the ARG method]. In order to further understand the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we have utilized image analysis in diagnosing the early stages of AD in patients with cognitive disorders. CT and MRI, however, have not been feasible since only atrophy is seen and it is difficult to differentiate the changes in AD from age associated changes. In this study we tried to determine whether regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements using single photon emission CT (SPECT) are feasible for the early diagnosis of AD. Regional CBF (rCBF) was measured using SPECT in three subject groups: Age-associated memory impairment (AAMI. n = 9), mild AD (n = 16), and normal aged patients (mean age = 68.3; n = 20). The subjects were then observed for three years. The region of interest (ROI) for the medial temporal lobe was set at OM-30 degrees to cover the maximum area of the hippocampus. The absolute values of rCBF in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes and the cerebellum were significantly lower in the mild AD subjects than in the normal aged subjects. A significant decrease in rCBF was also seen in the medial temporal lobe in both the AD and the AAMI subjects compared to the normal controls. During the three years of follow up, no cases of dementia were seen in the AAMI subjects. However, there were two patients who appeared to have difficulty in adapting to daily life due to amnesia, one with a decrease in rCBF of the medial temporal lobe on the second SPECT, and the other showing a low rCBF the first time. This study suggests that AAMI subjects may comprise both AD and normal subjects. Therefore a more prospective study is needed."}
{"id": "9581218", "title": "Differential diagnosis and early detection of dementia.", "content": "Differential diagnosis and early detection of dementia. Of the many potential causes of dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common and accounts for approximately two-thirds of cases in older populations. Typical clinical features help differentiate various other conditions. Screening laboratory tests are generally sufficient for routine evaluations; brain imaging assessments also assist in the differential diagnosis by identifying structural and functional abnormalities. Because new treatments for AD are more likely to delay disease onset than to reverse neuronal damage, early detection methods have practical treatment implications. Recent studies combine genetic risk with neuroimaging assessments as a method of early disease detection; additional techniques aimed at increasing sensitivity and specificity are under development. Such strategies should eventually assist in the early detection of AD and therapeutic monitoring of brain function during antidementia treatments."}
{"id": "9566003", "title": "[A case manifested overlapping neuropathologic features of both progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD)].", "content": "[A case manifested overlapping neuropathologic features of both progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD)]. A 62-year-old man developed clumsiness, vertical ophthalmoplegia, right-side dominant parkinsonism, pyramidal signs, limb-kinetic apraxia and dementia. His brain MRI and SPECT revealed mild fronto-parietal atrophy and hypoperfusion predominately on the right side. At the age of 65, the patient died of sepsis. The duration of his illness was approximately 3 years. Clinical diagnosis was corticobasal degeneration (CBD). On neuropathological examination, there was no neuronal loss and many neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the cerebral cortices. Basal ganglia and substantia nigra showed moderate to severe neuronal loss. And there were many NFTs and argyrophillic threads (threads) in the subthalamic nucleus and nuclei of the brainstem. These findings were almost compatible to those of PSP. However, the following findings were atypical for PSP, 1) mild atrophy and absence of gliosis in the tegmentum of the brain stem, 2) Mild neuronal loss in the subthalamic nucleus and the dentate nucleus without grumose degeneration. Furthermore, characteristic findings were noted on modified Gallyas-Braak stain. Numerous threads and many astrocytic plaques (AP) were shown in cerebral cortices, which were particular to CBD cases. So this case demonstrated neuropathological findings of both PSP and CBD. Therefore, it was difficult to classify this case as either PSP or CBD, and we diagnosed this case as a neuropathological overlapping case of both PSP and CBD."}
{"id": "9559960", "title": "Cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor measurement in Alzheimer's disease patients on 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate--comparison with cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism.", "content": "Cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor measurement in Alzheimer's disease patients on 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate--comparison with cerebral blood flow and cerebral glucose metabolism. We studied the cerebral muscarinic acetylcholinergic receptor (mACh-R) by means of 11C-N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate (11C-NMPB) and positron emission tomography (PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases, and the findings were compared with the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the glucose metabolism (CMRGlc) to evaluate the relationship between the mACh-R and the CBF or the CMRGlc. The subjects consisted of 18 patients with AD and 18 age and sex matched normal volunteers. The patients were clinically diagnosed according to the criteria of the NINDS-ADRDA as having \"probable AD\" and were thus classified into two groups (mild and moderate AD) according to the severity of dementia determined by DSM-III-R. The CBF was measured by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT, and the CMRGlc was measured by 18FDG PET. The 11C-NMPB uptake was evaluated by the graphical method and the ratio method (ROIs/Cerebellum). A significant mACh-R decrease and more severe CMRGlc decrease in the cortical region was seen in mild and moderate AD. The decrease in the CBF was not as obvious as that in the mACh-R and the CMRGlc. Our study thus suggested that the mACh-R decreased in patients with AD, and that the 18FDG PET was the most sensitive method for detecting the degenerative regions in patients with AD."}
{"id": "9545682", "title": "[Analysis of cerebral blood flow SPECT imaging on standard brain atlas in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type].", "content": "[Analysis of cerebral blood flow SPECT imaging on standard brain atlas in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type]. Statistical parametric map (SPM) has been developed by Friston et al. to analyze focal changes in rCBF induced by brain activation. This automated and objective approach has the potential of being applied to SPECT image data sets. This study evaluated an automated analysis of brain SPECT imaging in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) using SPM95. Seventeen patients with clinically diagnosed moderate to severe DAT and nine normal control subjects were studied. The SPECT device used was a triple-headed rotation gamma camera GCA9300A/HG. All images were transformed into the standard anatomical space of the stereotactic brain atlas of Talairach and Tournoux, and then smoothed. Statistical analysis was made between DAT and normal control groups. SPM analysis of SPECT images revealed that the parieto-temporal areas and posterior cingulate gyrus of both cerebral hemispheres were significantly decreased in DAT patients compared to normal controls. In conclusion, SPM analysis of SPECT images proved to be useful in the evaluation of abnormal perfusion areas of demented patients."}
{"id": "9541298", "title": "The role of 99m-Tc HMPAO SPECT in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease.", "content": "The role of 99m-Tc HMPAO SPECT in the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease. A patient with acute dementia underwent imaging of the brain with technetium-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography. Regional perfusion abnormalities were identified in multiple locations, particularly in the left frontal lobe. This information was used to direct an open brain biopsy, which led to a diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease."}
{"id": "9538911", "title": "Brain correlates of memory processes in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type: a SPECT Activation Study.", "content": "Brain correlates of memory processes in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type: a SPECT Activation Study. Task-induced changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during verbal episodic memory activation were compared in 17 right-handed patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT) and 20 healthy volunteers. Regional cerebral blood flow was assessed using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and an injection of 133Xe (xenon, isotope of mass 133) in 21 regions of interest (ROI) during rest, passive listening to 36 words, and memorizing of a 12-word list repeated three times. In healthy subjects, memory-listening comparison showed activation of a distributed system involving several left-sided ROI, especially the posterior inferior frontal region. In patients with DAT, the same pattern of activation was found for listening-rest comparison, and no significant changes were found in memory-listening comparison. During listening compared with rest, significant activation was observed in left-sided hypoperfused regions. A significant correlation between memory performance and rCBF recorded in patients with DAT during the memory task was found only in the right lateral frontal region, a region that was not hypoperfused significantly in patients. The involvement of this region might relate to either retrieval effort or actual performance of patients with DAT on the memory task."}
{"id": "9527139", "title": "A clinical role for 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in the investigation of dementia?", "content": "A clinical role for 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in the investigation of dementia? To provide the clinician with a guide to the clinical utility of 99mTc-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and to the interpretation of specific test results in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Three hundred and sixty three patients with dementia were studied prospectively for a median three (range 1-6) years and classified into disease groups on the basis of established clinical criteria. The degree to which different patterns of cerebral blood flow (CBF) abnormality found on 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT imaging at the time of initial patient presentation modified clinical diagnoses was determined by calculating the likelihood ratios for pairwise disease group comparisons. The optimal clinical usage of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT was determined by calculating the percentage of significant test results for each pairwise disease group comparison. Bilateral posterior CBF abnormality was found to significantly increase the odds of a patient having Alzheimer's disease as opposed to vascular dementia or frontotemporal dementia. Bilateral anterior CBF abnormality significantly increased the odds of a patient having frontotemporal dementia as opposed to Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, or Lewy body disease. \"Patchy\" CBF changes significantly increased the odds of a patient having vascular dementia as opposed to Alzheimer's disease. Unilateral anterior, unilateral anterior plus unilateral posterior, and generalised CBF abnormality failed to contribute to the differentiation of any of these forms of dementia. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT was found to be most useful in distinguishing Alzheimer's disease from vascular dementia and fronto temporal dementia, and least useful in differentiating between Alzheimer's disease and Lewy body disease, and between vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia, and progressive aphasia. It is suggested that CBF SPECT should be used selectively and as an adjunct to clinical evaluation and CT."}
{"id": "9516072", "title": "Stroke and functional rehabilitation: the Chinese experience.", "content": "Stroke and functional rehabilitation: the Chinese experience. According to an epidemiological study of cerebrovascular disease carried out in China in 1986, the prevalence, incidence, and mortality rates were 159.93/100,000, 115.61/100,000, and 31.33/100,000, respectively. These figures were high compared to available epidemiological data for the rest of the world. This highlights the fact that, as in other countries, functional rehabilitation after stroke is an important medical and social need in China. Clinical experience shows that within a few hours to a few months after a stroke, a large proportion of patients spontaneously experience partial, or on occasion, complete recovery from neurologic symptoms. However, functional rehabilitation in medical care units is required because it assists in and accelerates the recovery of impaired function. Almitrine-raubasine has been used to improve functional rehabilitation after stroke for some time in China. By enriching the oxygen content of arterial blood, it brings more oxygen to the cerebral tissues and therefore promotes cerebral aerobic metabolism during ischemia. In the acute phase of stroke, positron emission tomography showed, in man, that almitrine-raubasine helps normalize the ischemic penumbra area, as shown by an improvement in the coupling between oxygenation and perfusion. Long after stroke, single photon emission computed tomography showed that almitrine-raubasine restores normal cerebral vasodilator response to acetazolamide. With a view to further documenting the clinical efficacy of almitrine-raubasine on the convalescent period of patients with cerebrovascular disease, a double-blind, placebo-controlled study is planned. One hundred patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease in the territory of the carotid artery will be included 4-6 weeks after the acute onset. Two tablets daily of almitrine-raubasine or placebo will be prescribed for 3-6 months. Before treatment, there will be a 2-week washout period for all other drugs, except for antihypertensive and antidiabetic drugs. In addition to complete clinical monthly examinations, neurological functional deficit scores, Barthel index, Hasagawa Dementia scales, and CT scan are scheduled. The study results should confirm those reported in the scientific literature: although untreated patients may show spontaneous improvement, almitrine-raubasine should accelerate patients' functional rehabilitation."}
{"id": "9476939", "title": "Cerebral perfusion scanning in treating AIDS dementia: a pilot study.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion scanning in treating AIDS dementia: a pilot study. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) dementia complex (ADC) is a common effect of the AIDS virus. We studied the regional cerebral blood flow of patients with early ADC and its response to atevirdine mesylate. Ten men with early ADC, who had failed or were intolerant to zidovudine or didanosine therapy, were treated with atevirdine mesylate for 12 wk. Cerebral perfusion SPECT using 99mTc-HMPAO was performed at Week 0 and Week 12. SPECT images were analyzed qualitatively and semiquantitatively. The cerebral perfusion abnormalities in early ADC were usually mild and characteristically involved the cortices and periventricular regions bilaterally and symmetrically. Four patients were able to complete the protocol. Three of these patients responded to atevirdine clinically, two of whom showed improvement in their Week 12 SPECT images. The other responder had an essentially unchanged image. The patient who did not respond to atevirdine showed a definite deterioration in cerebral perfusion. Cerebral perfusion SPECT is useful in detecting and assessing therapeutic responses in ADC. The preliminary results of atevirdine in treating ADC are promising and need further investigation."}
{"id": "9469263", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in white matter is correlated with systolic blood pressure and EEG in senile dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in white matter is correlated with systolic blood pressure and EEG in senile dementia of the Alzheimer type. The presence and functional significance of white matter lesions in the ageing brain and in dementia as well as their relation to blood pressure are often discussed. The aim of this study was to evaluate cerebral blood flow in white matter (WMCBF) and its relation to systemic blood pressure and multichannel EEG. WMCBF was measured in 24 elderly women with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT, median age 85.5, range 68-93) and 20 age-matched controls (median age 86.0, range 79-93) using 99mTc-HMPAO single photon emission CT. A significant low WMCBF could be observed in all analysed regions in SDAT subjects compared to controls, with the greatest decline in the posterior region (parietotemporo-occipital area). Correlations between quantified EEG from the posterior regions and WMCBF were seen. Systolic blood pressure was significantly lower in the SDAT group and was positively correlated with WMCBF in the posterior and anterior brain regions. Whether low systemic blood pressure is the result of crerebral dysfunction is unclear."}
{"id": "9443760", "title": "Importance of bone attenuation in brain SPECT quantification.", "content": "Importance of bone attenuation in brain SPECT quantification. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nonuniform attenuation on relative quantification in brain SPECT and to compare the ability of the Chang and Sorenson uniform attenuation corrections (UACs) to achieve volumetric relative quantification. Three head phantoms (dry human skull, Rando and Radiology Support Devices (RSD) phantoms) were compared with a human head using a gamma camera transmission CT (gammaTCT) SPECT system and x-ray CT. Subsequently, the RSD phantom's brain reservoir was filled with a uniform water solution of 99mTc, and SPECT and gammaTCT data were acquired using fanbeam collimation. The attenuating effects of bone, scalp and head-holder in individual projections were determined by an analytical projection technique using the SPECT and gammaTCT reconstructions. The Chang UAC used brain and head contours that were segmented from the gammaTCT reconstruction to demarcate its attenuation map, whereas the Sorenson UAC fit slice-specific ellipses to the SPECT projection data. For each UAC, volumetric relative quantification was measured with varying attenuation coefficients (mus) of the attenuation map. Gamma camera transmission CT and x-ray CT scans showed that the dry skull and Rando phantoms suffered from a dried trabecular bone compartment. The RSD phantom most closely reproduced the attenuation coefficients of the human gammaTCT and x-ray CT scans. The analytical projections showed that the attenuating effects of bone, scalp and head-holder were nonuniform across the projections and accounted for 18%-37% of the total count loss. Volumetric relative quantification was best achieved with the Chang (zero iterations) attenuation correction using the head contour and mu = 0.075 cm(-1); however, cortical activity was found to be 10% higher than cerebellar activity. For all UACs, the optimal choices of mu were experimentally found to be lower than the recommended 0.12 cm(-1) for brain tissue. This result is theoretically supported here. The magnitude of errors resulting from uniform attenuation corrections can be greater than the magnitudes of regional cerebral blood flow deficits in patients with dementia, as compared with normal controls. This suggests that nonuniform attenuation correction in brain SPECT imaging must be applied to accurately estimate regional cerebral blood flow."}
{"id": "9443754", "title": "Correlation of neuropsychological, morphological and functional (regional cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization) findings in cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "Correlation of neuropsychological, morphological and functional (regional cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization) findings in cerebral microangiopathy. Cerebral microangiopathy, indicated in MRI by lacunar infarctions (LIs) and deep white matter lesions (DWMLs), is said to be accompanied by vascular dementia, which is reportedly caused by LI and DWML. To confirm this assumption, 57 patients with cerebral microangiopathy were assessed for changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and glucose utilization (rMRGlu) in both white matter and cortex, and these findings were correlated to the results of extensive neuropsychological testing (cognitive, mnestic and attentiveness tests), as well as to MRI findings. A special head holder ensured reproducibility of positioning during measurement of rCBF (99mTc-HMPAO SPECT) and rMRGlu (18F-FDG PET) and MRI. White matter and cortex were quantified with regions of interest defined on MRI and superimposed to corresponding PET/SPECT slices. The rMRGlu was calculated according to Sokoloff, and rCBF was determined from normalization to the cerebellum. LI and DWML were graded by number and extent. Brain atrophy was classified as no to slight inner and/or outer atrophy (Group A) or moderate-to-severe inner and outer atrophy (Group B). Even in severe DWMLs and in multiple LIs, rCBFs and rMRGlu values were not reduced. Analysis of variance identified atrophy and neuropsychological deficits as the main determinants for reduced rCBF and rMRGlu values (p < 0.05). However, 60% of patients (19 of 31) with neuropsychological deficits in attentiveness tests and 61% of patients (23 of 38) with mnestic deficits belonged to Group A and revealed decreased rCBF and rMRGlu values. Neuropsychological deficits correlated well with decreased rCBF and rMRGlu, whereas MRI patterns, such as LI and DWML, did not. We conclude that LI and DWML are epiphenomena that morphologically characterize cerebral microangiopathy. Dementia or neuropsychological deficits, however, are exclusively reflected by functional criteria (rCBF and rMRGlu), as long as cerebral atrophy does not occur."}
{"id": "9577668", "title": "[Corticobasal degeneration].", "content": "[Corticobasal degeneration]. Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) was first reported by Rebeiz et al as corticodentatonigral degeneration with neuronal achromasia in 1967. After Gibb et al described 7 cases including 4 cases from the literature under the term of corticobasal degeneration, CBD has become widely recognized. The disease starts mainly in one's fifties and sixties with the duration of 6 to 7 years. The clinical features include asymmetric parkinsonism, cerebral cortical signs, and others. Typically, patients present with unilateral clumsiness with akinetic-rigid syndrome and limb-kinetic apraxia. Postural instability, gait disturbance and involuntary movements such as dystonia are not uncommon. The parkinsonism is DOPA-resistant. BEsides apraxia, alien limb syndrome, cortical sensory disturbances, frontal lobe-release signs, and dementia are representative cortical signs. Other clinical features include dysarthria, pyramidal tract signs and supranuclear gaze palsy. MRI, SPECT or PET reveals asymmetric atrophy, decrease in blood flow or reduction in metabolism of the frontal parietal region around the central sulcus. Electrophysiological and magnetic stimulation studies demonstrated increase in excitability of the cerebral cortex. Myoclonus in CBD is cortical in origin but without any preceding potential or giant somatosensory evoked potential. Neuropathologically CBD is characterized by involvement of the particular cortices and substantia nigra. Other structures such as the putamen, pallidum, thalamus, subthalamus, cerebellar dentate nucleus and brainstem are affected to various extents. Histological features include achromatic, ballooned neurons as well as tau and Gallyas positive neuronal and glial intracytoplasmic inclusions. Astrocytic plaque is considered to be a form of glial inclusions specific to CBD. Diagnosis of typical cases of CBD appears easy but atypical cases were reported with showed dementia or aphasia as a main feature, or were devoid of the asymmetry of signs and symptoms. CBD, progressive supranuclear palsy and Pick's disease share both clinical and neuropathological features to some extent while they are clearly distinct among typical cases. The etiology and pathomechanism of CBD remain to be elucidated."}
{"id": "9528031", "title": "[Neuroborreliosis in a patient with progressive supranuclear paralysis. An association or the cause?].", "content": "[Neuroborreliosis in a patient with progressive supranuclear paralysis. An association or the cause?]. Many different neurological conditions may be seen in the later stages of Lyme's Disease, such as blindness, epileptic crises, CVA, extrapyramidal disorders, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and dementia may be yet another form of presentation of chronic infection due to Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb). Progressive Supranuclear Paralysis (PSP), a disorder of unknown aetiology, considered to be the commonest cause of Parkinsonism-plus, one of the symptoms of which is dementia, has never been mentioned in this type of differential diagnosis. We present the case of a 78 year old man with sub-acute mental deterioration, Bb positive serology in both plasma and CSF, and with clinical and epidemiological features compatible with Lyme's Disease. Complementary tests were negative. The syndrome corresponded to Lyme's Disease and improved after treatment with ceftriaxona. We consider aspects of the aetiology of PSP which are still not clear. In our patient, the aetiology seemed to be Bb infection, according to the criteria of the original description of the disease and in view of the neuropathological findings which have shown Bb in the substancia nigra of the mid-brain and the existence of an animal model in which Bb shows a particular tendency to colonize infratentorial structures."}
{"id": "9501586", "title": "[Memory disorders in the elderly: complementary examinations--for whom?].", "content": "[Memory disorders in the elderly: complementary examinations--for whom?]. Recognizing the existence of memory disorders in elderly subjects necessarily involves developing a diagnostic strategy to identify the causes. Three types of complementary investigation are available: neurophysiological and neurobiological tests, and anatomical and functional brain imaging studies. Major efforts have been made to identify diagnostic markers on the electroencephalogram. Quantified EEG may have a certain value. However, it provides a plethora of data and there is no consensus on which items are most relevant on the EEG, whether the patient is awake or asleep. Evoked 'cognitive' potentials may also provide useful data, particularly to distinguish between the different types of degenerative dementia. Exaggerated pupil dilation in response to a mydriatric drug has also been put forward as a diagnostic test. The results, however, are controversial. For the time being there is no diagnostic laboratory parameter that can be used routinely, even if studies of the proteins tau and P97 are promising. Molecular genetics-based studies have identified a number of chromosomal abnormalities in certain families. Apart from studies of chromosome 19 and apolipoprotein 3, these markers have no practical utility. Allele sigma 4 is associated with a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E phenotyping can of course be of diagnostic value, but no more so than neuropsychological or neuroimaging methods. On the other hand, it is difficult to derive a predictive test. It also seems difficult to develop a diagnostic strategy without including brain imaging studies. The value of morphological imaging (CT, MRI) in the diagnosis of dementias is clear. Volumetric measurements of certain brain structures might be a useful diagnostic approach for early detection. Functional brain imaging methods (PET and SPECT) appear particularly suited to the diagnosis of degenerative dementias. The presence of functional abnormalities at onset, and, even before the first clinical signs appear, is clearly valuable."}
{"id": "9494332", "title": "[Quantification of cerebral blood flow with 99mTc-ECD SPECT by a single arterial or venous blood sample].", "content": "[Quantification of cerebral blood flow with 99mTc-ECD SPECT by a single arterial or venous blood sample]. The purpose of the study is to develop a simple and less invasive method for quantifying regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using 99mTc-ECD and SPECT. By employing a microsphere model, a new method to measure rCBF was developed, which required a single arterial or venous sample instead of continuous withdrawal of arterial blood. Using a regression line, the integral of input function of arterial blood from 0 to 30 min was inferred by activity of arterial blood sampled at time t; A(t), by activity multiplied by its octanol extraction rate; AN(t), by activity of venous blood at time t; V(t), and by activity multiplied by its octanol extraction rate; VN(t). The optimum sampling time of arterial or venous blood was examined when mean % error for inference became minimum. Consequently, minimum error of AN(6 min) was 5.5%, A(3 min) was 8.9%, VN(6 min) was 5.9%, and V(20 min) was 10.0%. Quantitative measurement of rCBF using the value of VN(6 min) was performed on other 6 subjects with dementia etc. To validate the method, 133Xe inhalation SPECT studies were also performed on the same subjects. We found a good agreement between them (r = 0.851). The presented one-point sampling methods were simple and less invasive for quantifying rCBF."}
{"id": "9448576", "title": "Cognitive deficits in Huntington's disease are predicted by dopaminergic PET markers and brain volumes.", "content": "Cognitive deficits in Huntington's disease are predicted by dopaminergic PET markers and brain volumes. The main aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between dopaminergic markers and brain volumes for striatal and cortical structures, and cognitive performance in patients with Huntington's disease and control subjects. We used PET and MRI data as predictors of performance in tasks assessing executive function, visuospatial ability, episodic memory, verbal fluency, perceptual speed and reasoning. The dopamine neurotransmission parameters (D1 and D2 receptor density and dopamine transporter density) and the volumetric measurements for caudate and putamen accounted for substantial portions of the variance across the majority of cognitive tasks. In addition, frontal volume showed a strong relationship with all cognitive tasks. D1 binding and volume measurements for the temporal cortex and thalamic volume showed associations with a select number of cognitive tasks. The overall data pattern is consistent with the view that Huntington's disease may be characterized as a frontostriatal dementia, in which cognitive deficits may result from pathological changes at multiple sites in the frontostriatal circuitry."}
{"id": "9447445", "title": "Electroencephalography as a diagnostic instrument in Alzheimer's disease: reviews and perspectives.", "content": "Electroencephalography as a diagnostic instrument in Alzheimer's disease: reviews and perspectives. Electroencephalography is the only diagnostic instrument directly reflecting cortical neuronal functioning, and it remains an important clinical tool in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although a normal EEG is found in many patients with mild AD, a pathological EEG is an important finding, because such a result is not in line with differential diagnoses such as depression or pseudodementia within a dissociative disorder. The vast majority of patients with moderate to severe AD have a pathological EEG. A normal EEG in this patient group is more in line with subcortical dementia or frontal lobe degeneration than with AD. Compared to SPECT or routine structural brain imaging (cCT, MRT), EEG has a comparable diagnosis sensitivity and a higher specificity. For monitoring changes of brain function by serial recordings (e.g., during therapy with antidementia drugs), EEG is the best available method."}
{"id": "9447443", "title": "Functional brain imaging with single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Functional brain imaging with single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. High-resolution single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with brain-retained technetium-99m (99mTc)-labeled tracers may be used for 3-dimensional measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). This article summarizes important findings in SPECT studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There are three distinct potential applications of SPECT in diagnosing AD: (a) as a diagnostic adjunct in patients with mild cognitive or behavioral symptoms, suggesting a possible dementia disorder; (b) as a diagnostic adjunct for demented patients in whom the history, physical examination, and laboratory studies are in agreement with a diagnosis of probable AD; and (c) for determining the relative contributions of degenerative and vascular pathology to the clinical picture in demented patients with mixed disease. A clinical diagnosis of probable AD is associated with focal perfusion deficits as measured by SPECT. Characteristically, hypoperfusion is observed in the frontal and temporoparietal association areas, whereas other brain regions are relatively spared. The changes are present in the early phases of AD. The topography of rCBF deficits displays a marked heterogeneity among patients and correlates with cognitive profiles. In patients with mild cognitive complaints, the presence of focal hypoperfusion on SPECT may increase the accuracy of the diagnosis by confirming the presence of brain disease. In patients with probable AD, the presence of temporoparietal rCBF deficits on SPECT increases the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis, in particular when associated with medial temporal lobe atrophy on cranial X-ray computed tomography (CT). The role of SPECT in diagnosing patients with mixed disease remains to be clarified."}
{"id": "9447442", "title": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and APO E4 medial temporal lobe dementias. The Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging.", "content": "Accurate prediction of histologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease and the differential diagnosis of dementia: the use of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria, SPECT, X-ray CT, and APO E4 medial temporal lobe dementias. The Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging. In a prospective study of more than 200 cases of dementia and 119 controls, annual technetium-99m-hexamethyl-propylene amineoxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and annual medial temporal lobe (MTL) oriented X-ray computed tomography (CT) have been used to evaluate the diagnostic potential of functional and structural neuroimaging in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Some subjects have had up to 7 annual evaluations. So far, of 151 who have died, 143 (95%) have come to necropsy. Histology is known for 118, of whom 80 had Alzheimer's disease (AD), 24 had other \"non-AD\" dementias, and 14 controls with no cognitive deficit in life also had no significant central nervous system pathology. To compare the findings in the dementias with the profile of structural and functional imaging in the cognitively normal elderly, scan data from 105 living, elderly controls without cognitive deficit have also been included in the analysis. All clinical diagnoses were according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicable Disease and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd ed., rev.; DSM-III-R) criteria, and all histopathological diagnoses according to the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) criteria. Early data from this cohort have suggested that the combination of both MTL atrophy seen on CT with parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT may predict the pathology of AD. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of the NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R criteria could be assessed in this cohort against the gold standard of histopathology. The diagnostic potential of CT evidence of MTL atrophy alone, SPECT evidence of parietotemporal hypoperfusion alone, and the combination of both of these scan changes in the same individual could then be compared against the diagnostic accuracy of clinical operational criteria in the pathologically confirmed cases. Furthermore, all of these modalities could be compared with the diagnostic accuracy of apolipoprotein E4 (Apo E4) genotyping to predict AD in the histopathologically confirmed cohort. In this population, NINCDS \"probable-AD\" was 100% specific, 49% sensitive, and 66% accurate; \"possible-AD\" was only 61% specific, but 93% sensitive and 77% accurate; and the combination of both \"probable-AD\" and \"possible-AD\" was 61% specific, 96% sensitive, and 85% accurate. DSM-III-R criteria were 51% sensitive, 97% specific, and 66% accurate. In the same cases and including the 105 living, elderly controls, the diagnostic accuracy of the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging (OPTIMA) scanning criteria showed CT alone to be 85% sensitive, 78% specific, and 80% accurate; SPECT alone had 89% sensitivity, 80% specificity, and 83% accuracy; and the combination of the two was 80% sensitive, 93% specific, and 88% accurate. The Apo E4 genotype was 74% sensitive but yielded 40% false positives in the histologically confirmed series. The diagnostic accuracy afforded by this method of CT and SPECT used alone is better than that of any established clinical criteria and reveals that the combination of MTL atrophy and parietotemporal hypoperfusion is common in AD, much less common in other dementias, and rare in normal controls. In the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria \"possible-AD\" cases, the combination of CT and SPECT findings alone were better in all diagnostic indices than the presence of Apo E4 alone in predicting AD. The frequent occurrence of MTL atrophy in AD and also in other \"non-AD\" dementias later in the course of the disease suggests the concept of medial temporal lobe dementia. This could explain some of the overlap of clinical profiles in the dementias, particularly as the dementia progresses, making clinical differential diagnosis difficult. In this context, the use of SPECT can significantly e"}
{"id": "9447435", "title": "Early diagnosis of dementia via a two-step screening and diagnostic procedure.", "content": "Early diagnosis of dementia via a two-step screening and diagnostic procedure. We propose a two-step process for the assessment of dementia using standardized instruments. The family physician performs a screening consisting of taking a medical history, gathering information from relatives and friends of the patient, and administering the combined Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Clock Drawing Test (CDT). Specialists examine patients with suspected dementia to confirm the diagnosis of dementia and, after a thorough differential diagnostic process, provide the family physician with recommendations for treatment. Specialists should perform neurological and psychiatric examinations, imaging (computer-assisted tomography [CT], magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), and laboratory work-up. The Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) core neuropsychological battery is proposed to serve as a minimal data set that is internationally compatible. In addition, we recommend the Nurses' Observation Scale for Geriatric Patients (NOSGER) as a standard tool for functional assessment."}
{"id": "9447427", "title": "Vascular dementia: challenge of clinical diagnosis.", "content": "Vascular dementia: challenge of clinical diagnosis. Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second most common cause of dementia. In addition, cerebrovascular diseases (CVD) coexist with other causes of dementia. Cognitive impairment related to CVD may be preventable and these patients could benefit from therapy, which emphasizes the importance of early detection and accurate diagnosis of VaD. The conventional concept of VaD is that of multi-infarct dementia (MID). However, VaD is not only MID; it relates to different vascular mechanisms and different changes in the brain, and has different clinical manifestations with different causes. Critical conceptual questions include the cognitive syndrome and the vascular causes. It is unclear whether the conventional concept of dementia is appropriate or should be substituted with a milder and broader definition, such as vascular cognitive impairment. Furthermore, there is confusion about the causes, especially the role of lesion characteristics and the noninfarct factors. The current diagnostic criteria for VaD are based on the infarct concept. The NINDS-AIREN criteria include dementia, CVD, and a relationship between these two disorders. The criteria define the CVD and the relationship between dementia and CVD, and list supporting clinical features for the diagnosis of VaD, as well as features that make the diagnosis uncertain. The interrater reliability of these criteria is moderate to substantial (kappa .46 to .72). The expected antemortem accuracy using these criteria approaches 90%. The challenge is to correctly diagnose combined cases with both vascular and Alzheimer-type pathology. Main tools in the diagnosis include a detailed medical history, neurological examination, clinical or neuropsychological mental status examination, and basic laboratory examinations. Brain imaging should always be performed, preferably using magnetic resonance imaging. The diagnosis, especially in early cases, is usually made by a neurologist. The challenge for the primary care physician is to identify the early cases needing further examinations and organizing treatment and follow-up after diagnosis."}
{"id": "9444495", "title": "A comparison of qEEG and HMPAO-SPECT in relation to the clinical severity of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A comparison of qEEG and HMPAO-SPECT in relation to the clinical severity of Alzheimer's disease. Electroencephalographical studies have disclosed correlations between topographical features of Fast Fourier Transformation maps and the severity of Alzheimer's disease (DAT). The object of the present study was to explore the relations of HMPAO-SPECT and quantitative EEG (qEEG) with the severity of dementia. Twenty-three patients were included in the study. Spectral and topographical EEG parameters were compared with global and regional cerebral blood flow, and with psychometric measures of clinical severity. None of the regions of interest of the SPECT scans were significantly correlated with clinical severity. Low values in delta- and theta bands, however, were related to high scores on the Mini-Mental-State examination (P < 0.01), whereas the Syndrome-Kurz test correlated inversely with the power values in the alpha and beta band. The global decrease in cerebral blood flow (CBF) was associated with a shift on the topographical alpha-centroids in the posterior direction (P < 0.01). In previous studies correlations between CBF and clinical severity were weak, indicating a high interindividual variance, or interactions with concomitant vascular lesions. Whereas SPECT is a well-established tool for the diagnosis of dementia, the present study indicates qEEG as a potential marker for the staging of the cognitive decline in DAT."}
{"id": "9421999", "title": "Cerebral angioplasty in vascular dementia.", "content": "Cerebral angioplasty in vascular dementia."}
{"id": "9410988", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia]."}
{"id": "9408100", "title": "Temporal lobe abnormalities in dementia and depression: a study using high resolution single photon emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Temporal lobe abnormalities in dementia and depression: a study using high resolution single photon emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Perfusion SPECT and MRI were used to test the hypothesis that late onset depression is associated with brain abnormalities. Forty depressed patients (DSM-III-R major depressive episode, not demented at two year follow up) were recruited who were either drug free, or on a stable dose of antidepressants for at least three weeks, as well as 22 demented patients (DSM-IIIR and NINCDS/ADRDA criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease). Patients were imaged at rest with a high resolution single slice 12 detector head scanner (SME-Neuro 900) and the cerebral perfusion marker 99mTc-exametazime (HM-PAO). Temporal lobe templates were fitted with brains pitched by 20 degrees-30 degrees. A subgroup of 41 patients (22 depressed) were also scanned using a Siemens Magnetron 1.0 Tesla magnetic resonance imager, using a FLAIR imaging sequence for the assessment of white matter hyperintensities, and a Turbo FLASH sequence for the measurement of medial temporal lobe width. Demented patients showed reduced perfusion, particularly in the left temporoparietal cortex. In these regions of interest, patients with late onset depression tended to have perfusion values intermediate between patients with early onset depression and demented patients. Differences in changes in white matter between demented and early and late onset depressive patients did not reach conventional levels of significance. Temporal lobe width differed between demented and depressed patients, but not between early and late onset depressed patients. Perfusion and temporal lobe width were not associated, but reductions of perfusion were associated with periventricular white matter changes. Mini mental state examination scores were associated with temporal perfusion in demented patients and with changes in deep white matter in depressed patients. Finally, severity of depressive symptoms was associated with decreased perfusion in frontotemporal and basal ganglia regions of interest. A cumulative effect of duration of illness on regional cerebral perfusion could not be confirmed. Late onset depression may show more abnormalities of deep white matter and of left temporoparietal perfusion than early onset depression, but the underlying pathology remains to be established."}
{"id": "9376962", "title": "Functional imaging of the AIDS dementia complex and the metabolic pathology of the HIV-1-infected brain.", "content": "Functional imaging of the AIDS dementia complex and the metabolic pathology of the HIV-1-infected brain. The AIDS-dementia complex remains one of the more common neurologic disorders associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Despite several advances that have been made in elucidating some of its clinical and biological features, pathogenesis is not well understood, and effective treatments are scarce. This article reveals the results of these studies and discusses how these different approaches have already enabled clinicians to study further the effects of HIV infection on brain function and to explore the functional anatomy of this important clinical syndrome."}
{"id": "9372455", "title": "Regulation of glutathione and cell toxicity following exposure to neurotropic substances and human immunodeficiency virus-1 in vitro.", "content": "Regulation of glutathione and cell toxicity following exposure to neurotropic substances and human immunodeficiency virus-1 in vitro. The aim of the present study was to assess the toxic potential of drugs of abuse and other neuropharmacological agents in the pathogenesis of AIDS dementia complex (ADC), the neurological complication of AIDS. Neuroblastoma and glioblastoma cell lines expressing the dopamine transporter, as well as primary macrophages exposed to human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), were used to investigate the possibility of any synergistic effect between the mode of toxicity of such substances and virus exposure. The drugs of abuse used in our experiments were cocaine and morphine, which exert their action, among others, on the dopaminergic system. Effects were compared to treatment with dopamine itself and a typical dopaminergic drug used pharmaceutically, selegiline. In macrophage cultures, glutathione (GSH) was upregulated strongly after treatment with dopamine, morphine or selegiline, and this effect was enhanced when cells were pre-exposed to virus. This upregulation is discussed as a compensatory reaction to an oxidative signal. When hydrogen peroxide plus iron sulfate was used as a strong oxidant in macrophages, GSH concentrations decreased as a result of cell injury. Cell numbers remained constant in all treatment groups. In contrast, in both neuroblastoma and glioblastoma cell lines, the modulation of GSH concentrations by neurotropic substances was accompanied by significant cell loss, which was exacerbated by HIV-1 pretreatment. Selegiline did not change cell numbers when incubated alone. However, when incubated following treatment with HIV-1 cell death was highly significant. Ascorbic acid (AA), included as antioxidant, totally restored cell loss in cultures treated with dopamine. However, no effect was observed in combined treatment of AA and morphine or selegiline. The results demonstrate a synergistic role in cellular toxicity due to neurotropic substances and HIV-1, and suggest that neuropharmacological agents may contribute to the pathogenesis of ADC."}
{"id": "9371912", "title": "Autosomal dominant progressive syndrome of motor-speech loss without dementia.", "content": "Autosomal dominant progressive syndrome of motor-speech loss without dementia. This patient report describes a 68-year-old man with progressive dissolution in motor-speech without concomitant language or cognitive decline, with presumed autosomal dominant inheritance. Motor-speech impairments included marked difficulty in articulating words and in coordinating articulation, phonation, and respiration. Brain imaging results revealed severe focal atrophy of the posterior frontal region extending to the anterior parietal and superior temporal regions bilaterally on structural (MRI) and functional (single photon emission computed tomography) brain imaging studies. The involved neural substrate represented the primary motor cortex, premotor cortex (supplementary motor area), and the postcentral gyrus. Familial history included similar difficulties in his mother, her sister, and his own sister. The isolated involvement of the motor-speech processes alone indicated that this syndrome was distinguishable from progressive aphasia associated with prominent loss of language and from Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "9370087", "title": "A SPECT imaging study of MRI white matter hyperintensity in patients with degenerative dementia.", "content": "A SPECT imaging study of MRI white matter hyperintensity in patients with degenerative dementia. We investigated the correlation between cortical perfusion and white matter hyperintensities on magnetic resonance images (MRI) of patients with dementia. The study included 40 subjects, each of whom had undergone both MRI and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies as part of their diagnostic evaluation for degenerative dementia. Two neuroradiologists rated the MRI films for severity of periventricular white matter changes on a 0-5 point scale and severity of subcortical white matter changes on a 0-4 point scale. Twelve regions of interest from association cortex were sampled for the semiquantitative analysis of SPECT images. No relationship was found between these global MRI ratings and semiquantitative or qualitative SPECT findings. Dementia severity as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Clinical Dementia Rating was significantly correlated with SPECT, whereas age was significantly correlated with MRI ratings, particularly in the periventricular regions. These data support the view that cortical SPECT abnormalities are not associated with global MRI abnormalities in the subcortical and periventricular regions of patients with a clinical picture of degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "9352545", "title": "Classification of mild Alzheimer's disease by artificial neural network analysis of SPET data.", "content": "Classification of mild Alzheimer's disease by artificial neural network analysis of SPET data. An evaluation of the performance of artificial neural networks (ANNs) for the classification of probable Alzheimer's disease (pAD) patients was undertaken using data extracted from four regions of interest constructed on single photon emission tomographic (SPET) cerebral perfusion images. Two studies using feed-forward neural networks (FFNNs) were undertaken. The first was to determine if it would be possible to classify pAD patients and normal subjects in a mixed group, comprising 29 patients diagnosed as having pAD varying in severity from mild, established dementia to moderate dementia and 10 healthy control subjects. The second was to determine if the networks generated in the first study could prospectively classify 15 additional patients with very mild or mild cognitive impairment. The results were compared to those obtained using the same data and discriminant analysis. The relative performances of the two analysis techniques were assessed on the basis of the area under receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves. The FFNN successfully classified all datasets in the first study, achieving an area under the ROC curve of 1.00, whereas discriminant analysis achieved 0.94. When tested on data from the second group, the areas under the ROC curves varied between 0.86 and 1.00 for the FFNN, whereas that for discriminant analysis was 0.99. We conclude that FFNNs can accurately classify pAD patients with mild to moderate dementia using data obtained from SPET cerebral perfusion images."}
{"id": "9345586", "title": "Recent and future evolutions in NeuroSPECT with particular emphasis on the synergistic use and fusion of imaging modalities.", "content": "Recent and future evolutions in NeuroSPECT with particular emphasis on the synergistic use and fusion of imaging modalities. Recent and future evolutions in neuroSPECT apply to radiopharmaceuticals techniques and the synergistic use of different imaging modalities in the work-up of neurological disorders. The introduction of Technetium labelled perfusion tracers, which could pass the intact blood-brain barrier, together with the implementation of the tomographic principle, by making the conventional gamma camera rotating, enabled estimation of regional cerebral blood flow and indirectly of local brain metabolism. In addition at present Thallium-201 and Tc-99m sestaMIBI allow functional detection of viable tumor tissue, without interference from previous surgery or radiotherapy as seen using CT-scan or MRI. In neurology this has led to the recognition of SPECT by the American Academy of Neurology (Therapeutics and technology subcommittee) as an established or promising tool in major neurological disorders such as dementia, stroke and epilepsy, while other domains such as brain oncology are considered investigational. With regard to radiopharmaceuticals, recent evolutions mainly include the development of mostly Iodine-123 labelled receptor ligands, some of which are already commercially available. For instrumentation advances consist e.g. of multidetector systems equipped with fanbeam collimators, attenuation and scatter correction or coincidence detection. Given the present role for nuclear neurology it may be expected that these additional radiopharmaceutical and technical innovations will continue to stimulate the development of SPECT of the brain. The synergistic use of several imaging techniques such as CT, (functional) MRI, source imaging, SPECT and PET represents a multimodal holistic approach to probe cerebral functions for research and clinical purposes. Clinical indications, in which this synergistic use is illustrated include e.g. support of the clinical diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type, presurgical ictal detection of seizure focus, detection of acute ischemia and differential diagnosis between radiation necrosis and brain tumor recurrence. The synergistic use of imaging modalities, optimally applied using image fusion, allows to overcome the intrinsic limitations and to enhance the specific advantages of the different approaches as it leads to increased precision and accuracy, as well for spatial anatomofunctional correlation as for quantification."}
{"id": "9343120", "title": "Association between medial temporal lobe atrophy on CT and parietotemporal uptake decrease on SPECT in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Association between medial temporal lobe atrophy on CT and parietotemporal uptake decrease on SPECT in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is the most frequent cause of degenerative dementia. Despite the available diagnostic criteria, improvement of diagnosic accuracy is still required. The aim of this prospective study was to assess in a large population of patients referred to a memory clinic the diagnostic value of the combination of medial temporal lobe atrophy on temporal oriented CT and decreased temporoparietal uptake on HMPAO single photon emission tomography (SPECT). The study was conducted in 125 patients aged 51-93: 64 with probable Alzheimer's disease (Mean (SD) mini mental state examination (MMSE)=18.34 (6.93)), duration of disease=6.48 (2.93) years, 13 possible Alzheimer's disease (MMSE=21.58 (5.48), duration of disease=6.08 (2.56)), 48 patients with miscellaneous memory disorders (MMSE=21.98 (6.10), duration the disease = 6.85 (3.91)). For the diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease, the sensitivity of this association was 0.56, the specificity 0.93, the positive predictive value 0.95, and the negative predictive value 0.45. The diagnosic accuracy was 0.68. Both medial temporal atrophy and parietotemporal decrease in uptake were present in four of 13 patients with possible Alzheimer's disease and 11 of 48 with miscellaneous memory disorders. The association was absent in 27 of 29 patients with frontotemporal dementia. In mild stages (MMSE>18; n = 32), the sensitivity of the association was 0.34, the specificity 0.93, the positive predictive value 0.85, and the negative predictive value 0.57. The diagnosic accuracy was 0.53. This association, although not sensitive, helps to select patients with high probability of Alzheimer's disease at an early stage which can be of interest for clinical and research purposes."}
{"id": "9342105", "title": "A study of dementia in adults with Down's syndrome using 99Tc(m)-HMPAO SPET.", "content": "A study of dementia in adults with Down's syndrome using 99Tc(m)-HMPAO SPET. Twenty-six people with Down's syndrome (DS) were investigated using 99Tc(m)-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99Tc(m)-HMPAO) and single photon emission tomography (SPET). Dementia was diagnosed using a structured carer interview giving a deterioration score and by studying the case notes. Five subjects were clinically demented, 7 showed mild deterioration and 14 no deterioration. Increased deterioration correlated with advancing age (correlation coefficient 0.5425; P<0.02), but there was no significant difference between older (>40 years) and younger (<40 years) patients. Only one of the subjects with dementia had a regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) abnormality that was of the dementia of Alzheimer type. Three subjects with mild deterioration and three with no deterioration had abnormal SPET scans. There was no association between the SPET abnormality and clinical dementia or with evidence of deterioration."}
{"id": "9341577", "title": "Bilateral temporal lobe volume reduction parallels cognitive impairment in progressive aphasia.", "content": "Bilateral temporal lobe volume reduction parallels cognitive impairment in progressive aphasia. Patients with isolated aphasia in the absence of other cognitive abnormalities have been the focus of several studies during the past decade. It has been called primary progressive aphasia (PPA), and the typical features of this syndrome are marked atrophy of the left temporal lobe according to the radiological examination and a language disorder as the initial symptom. In previous studies of PPA, the selection of the patients was based mainly on linguistic symptoms. Now, when computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging scans are part of the routine investigation of cognitive impairment and suspected dementia, the patients with lobar atrophy will be found at an earlier stage. In the present study, we used a new approach and defined the study group by selecting patients with obvious left temporal lobe atrophy, assessed by MRI, and we referred to them as patients with temporal lobe atrophy (TLA). To identify the features that distinguish TLA from other primary neurodegenerative disorders. Six patients with TLA were compared with patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), patients with frontal lobe dementia (FLD), and healthy control subjects. The investigations included magnetic resonance imaging volumetry, single photon emission computed tomography, and neuropsychologic and linguistic evaluations. In the TLA group, the mean volume of the left temporal lobe was 35% smaller than the right, while in the AD and FLD groups, the atrophy was symmetrical and bilateral. In the TLA group, the absolute volumes of the temporal lobes were significantly smaller on the left side compared with the AD and FLD groups, whereas there was no difference on the right side. The cerebral blood flow pattern in TLA was asymmetric and differed from that in the other study groups. All patients with TLA had a history of progressive Wernicke-type aphasia, ranging from 2 to 6 years. They showed primary verbal memory impairment but had preserved visuospatial functions. The clinical condition of all patients with TLA deteriorated during the study period; severe aphasia developed, and the patients exhibited signs of frontal lobe dysfunction. Serial volumetric measurements in 4 of 6 patients showed an annual 8% to 9% decrease of both left and right temporal lobes. The initial marked asymmetry in cognitive function found in patients with TLA contrasts with the general decline found in patients with AD. The bilateral degenerative process evident in patients with TLA paralleled the clinical deterioration, indicating TLA to be a non-AD lobar atrophy that develops into generalized cognitive dysfunction and dementia."}
{"id": "9329703", "title": "Omental transposition to the brain for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Omental transposition to the brain for Alzheimer's disease. Omental transposition (OT) to revascularize the brain was first performed in animals in the late 1960s, where it was shown that blood vessels originating from the omentum crossed through the omental-cerebral interface prior to developing into large-sized vessels that penetrated directly and deeply into the underlying brain. The additional cerebral blood flow coming from the omentum was of sufficient volume to protect an animal's brain from cerebral infarction even in the presence of middle cerebral artery ligation. It was also learned that the omentum was a rich source for neurotransmitters and omentum-derived nerve growth substance. OT to the brain is now being done for a variety of conditions which include strokes, TIAs, epilepsy, and Parkinson's disease. Of recent interest is the published information that OT may play some role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The placement of the omentum on an AD brain has led to a profound decrease in senile plaque formation. The omentum may ultimately prove to be beneficial in reversing or at least stabilizing the dementia associated with the devastation of AD."}
{"id": "9305498", "title": "Postural and gait disturbance correlated with decreased frontal cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Postural and gait disturbance correlated with decreased frontal cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease. In a group of 45 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and 15 control subjects, we studied the relationship between parameters showing postural and gait disturbance and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured with N-isopropyl-p-[123I]iodoam-phetamine single photon emission computed tomography at different clinical stages. Patients with AD with mild dementia exhibited only increased postural sway associated with a reduced mean value of rCBF in the cortex. At a moderate stage, the reduced mean values of rCBF in the cortex and in the frontal lobe were associated with increased postural sway and stride length variability and with decreased stride length. At a severe stage, reduced rCBF in the basal ganglia and in the frontal lobe additionally were associated with increased postural sway, double support time, and stride length variability, and with decreased walking speed and stride length. In multiple regression analysis, there was a high contribution by rCBF in the frontal lobe to account for postural and gait disturbance in AD. We propose that impaired frontal lobe circulation is an important factor causing postural and gait disturbance as AD progresses."}
{"id": "9301261", "title": "[Single photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Single photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Studies with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have shown temporoparietal (TP) hypoperfusion in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We evaluated the utility of this findings in the diagnosis of AD. SPECT images with 123I-iodoamphetamine were analyzed qualitatively by a rater without knowledge of the subject's clinical status. Sixty-seven of 302 consecutive patients were judged as having TP hypoperfusion by SPECT imaging. This perfusion pattern was observed in 44 of 51 patients with AD, in 5 with mixed dementia, 8 with cerebrovascular disease (including 5 with dementia), 4 with Parkinson's disease (including 2 with dementia), 1 with normal pressure hydrocephalus. 1 with slowly progressive aphasia. 1 with progressive autonomic failure, 2 with age associated memory impairment, and 1 with unclassified dementia. The sensitivity for AD was 86.3% (44 of 51 AD), and the specificity was 91.2% (229 of 251 non-AD). Next, we looked for differences in perfusion images between patients with AD and without AD. Some patients without AD had additional hypoperfusion beyond TP areas: deep gray matter hypoperfusion and diffuse frontal hypoperfusion, which could be used to differentiate them from the patients with AD. Other could not be distinguished from patients with AD by their perfusion pattern. Although patients with other cerebral disorders occasionally have TP hypoperfusion, this finding makes the diagnosis of AD very likely."}
{"id": "9286633", "title": "Progressive hemiparesis in frontal lobe degeneration.", "content": "Progressive hemiparesis in frontal lobe degeneration. Hemiparesis has rarely been observed in frontal lobe degeneration (FLD). We describe the clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging findings of a patient in whom a slowly evolving hemiparesis was the principal symptom of FLD, and of 2 demented patients in whom hemiparesis was an early and prominent symptom. The occurrence of central motor deficits in FLD is reviewed, and a synopsis of the differential diagnosis of hemiparesis in neurodegenerative diseases is given."}
{"id": "9270613", "title": "Autoimmune thyroiditis and a rapidly progressive dementia: global hypoperfusion on SPECT scanning suggests a possible mechanism.", "content": "Autoimmune thyroiditis and a rapidly progressive dementia: global hypoperfusion on SPECT scanning suggests a possible mechanism. We report the clinical, laboratory, EEG, and SPECT findings in a 59-year-old euthyroid woman with previously undiagnosed autoimmune thyroiditis, subclinical hypothyroidism, and rapidly progressive dementia. We made a diagnosis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy based on elevated thyrotropin, abnormal EEG, and clinical improvement after thyroid hormone replacement. SPECT demonstrated global hypoperfusion with normalization on clinical recovery, suggesting a possible mechanism for the pathogenesis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy."}
{"id": "9260162", "title": "The role of the electroencephalogram in the diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type: an attempt at technology assessment.", "content": "The role of the electroencephalogram in the diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type: an attempt at technology assessment. In a first attempt at technology assessment of the electroencephalogram (EEG) in the diagnosis of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), three conclusions were reached: notwithstanding the well defined clinical criteria, there remains a need for a laboratory technique to confirm the diagnosis since a 100% accuracy cannot be obtained by clinical methods only; although the EEG has a high sensitivity in separating AD patients from normal controls, the sensitivity of the EEG is at present not satisfactory when studying populations with a low prevalence of AD patients; the sensitivity of the EEG is higher or equal to the best other laboratory techniques (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI], computerized tomography [CT], SPECT, PET) available at the moment. Since the EEG and MRI can be helpful in different aspects of the differential diagnosis it is argued that all AD patients should be studied at least once by EEG as well as by MRI."}
{"id": "9249619", "title": "A 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography study of Lewy body disease.", "content": "A 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography study of Lewy body disease. The purpose of this study was to investigate patterns of 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) abnormality in Lewy body disease (LBD) and to compare findings with those encountered in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study group comprised 20 consecutive patient referrals fulfilling clinical criteria for LBD. All patients had fluctuating cognitive impairment and 'subcortical' dysfunction with or without perceptuospatial and/or linguistic impairment. Six patients had asymmetrical signs of parkinsonism (three left-sided and three right-sided), and 14 patients had symmetrical features of extrapyramidal involvement. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT imaging was performed on LBD patients and findings compared with those of 57 patients with 'probable' AD and 11 normal age-matched controls. Within the LBD and AD groups, patterns of cortical and subcortical blood-flow abnormality were compared with patterns of cognitive and neurological breakdown. LBD was associated with bilateral posterior cortical blood flow abnormality, a pattern strikingly similar to that found in AD. Within the LBD group, cortical blood-flow abnormality was found to reflect patterns of neurological dysfunction (parkinsonism) indicative of subcortical involvement. In contrast, cortical blood-flow changes did not reflect patterns of neuropsychological impairment suggestive of cortical dysfunction. Within the AD group, cortical blood-flow changes were mirrored by the pattern of neuropsychological impairment. Findings support the notion that cortical blood-flow abnormality in LBD might reflect a combination of direct cortical pathology and cortical deafferentation secondary to subcortical Lewy body pathology. It would appear that 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT imaging is of limited value in the clinical differentiation of LBD and AD."}
{"id": "9226739", "title": "Executive function and uptake of 99mTc-exametazime shown by single photon emission tomography after oral idazoxan in probable Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "Executive function and uptake of 99mTc-exametazime shown by single photon emission tomography after oral idazoxan in probable Alzheimer-type dementia. Preliminary reports suggest improved executive function in patients with lobar dementia after treatment with single doses of the alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan. The potential for use in probable Alzheimer-type dementia prompted the present study. Fifteen patients with probable Alzheimer-type dementia were examined twice with neuropsychological measures and 14 also with single photon emission tomography (SPET) after a single double blind oral administration of 40 mg idazoxan or placebo in a balanced cross-over design. Brain perfusion maps were spatially transformed into standard stereotactic space and compared pixel-by-pixel. A parametric analysis was used to examine the relationship between the drug effect, verbal fluency and brain perfusion. Two to 3 h after idazoxan, measures of reaction time, Stroop test, category fluency and anxiety were unchanged. Verbal fluency (letter) and spatial working memory were impaired and performance on the Tower of London test in a sub-set of patients showed a trend to impairment in the idazoxan condition. Idazoxan produced a modest relative activation in left thalamus and inferior occipital cortex: decreases occurred in inferior anterior cingulate and left insular cortex. There were significant correlations on both days between measures of fluency and brain perfusion in left lateral prefrontal cortex. The reduced performance with idazoxan was directly correlated with reduced perfusion in left lateral prefrontal cortex, supporting an important interaction between drug and task performance. The imaging component of the study therefore suggested that activation of frontal networks is necessary for performing fluency tasks in Alzheimer-type dementia. Brain networks involving prefrontal cortex are the locus for the primary cognitive effects of noradrenergic drugs. The direction of the effect of any dose of agonist or antagonist may depend critically upon the age and pathology of the experimental subjects and the relationship between performance, noradrenergic drive and task difficulty."}
{"id": "9225799", "title": "Intra-individual differences between technetium-99m-HMPAO and technetium-99m-ECD in the normal medial temporal lobe.", "content": "Intra-individual differences between technetium-99m-HMPAO and technetium-99m-ECD in the normal medial temporal lobe. Regional distributions of 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) and 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) were compared in the normal brain. Six paid, healthy volunteers (mean age 26 yr) had high-resolution neuroperfusion SPECT using both 99mTc-HMPAO and 99mTc-ECD on separate days. Regional distribution of the two tracers differed. Technetium-99m-HMPAO accumulated more in the thalamus, frontal lobe, temporal lobe and cerebellum than 99mTc-ECD, which accumulated more in the occipital and parietal lobes. There was a considerable difference in the accumulation of the two tracers in the medial temporal lobe. The percent accumulations of 99mTc-HMPAO and 99mTc-ECD in the medial temporal lobe compared with the mean global cerebral cortical accumulation were 93.9% +/- 2.4% and 83.1% +/- 4.1% (mean +/- s.d.), respectively. The results suggest that 99mTc-HMPAO and 99mTc-ECD require specific and separate criteria for diagnosing temporal lobe pathologies, such as dementia and temporal lobe epilepsy."}
{"id": "9225797", "title": "Quantitative assessment of cerebral blood flow in patients with Alzheimer's disease by SPECT.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of cerebral blood flow in patients with Alzheimer's disease by SPECT. This study evaluated an automated analysis of SPECT brain imaging in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients [n = 81; mean age, 69.9 +/- 10.6 yr (mean +/- s.d.)] with a clinical diagnosis of probable AD (NINCDS-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria) underwent 99mTc-ethyl cysteine dimer SPECT imaging. After imaging registration and data extraction using three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections, a pixel-wise comparison of ethyl cysteine dimer uptake was performed using a reference database of 10 cognitive intact controls of comparable age. When individual cases were compared to the normal database, temporo-parietal regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) abnormalities across different levels of dementia severity were clearly depicted on pixel-wise Z-score images. The rCBF reduction in cortical association areas showed a significant correlation with an overall level of cognitive decline, as assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination and by the cognitive section of the Cambridge Mental Disorders of the Elderly Examination. In addition, there were significant region-specific correlations between left temporo perfusion deficit and language performance and between right parietal rCBF reduction and praxis. These results indicate that this observer-independent analysis of SPECT data enables objective and semiquantitative assessment of the magnitude and extent of cortical perfusion abnormalities in patients with AD."}
{"id": "9219746", "title": "Age related cognitive decline: a clinical entity? A longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow and memory performance.", "content": "Age related cognitive decline: a clinical entity? A longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow and memory performance. To evaluate the changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and memory performance in patients with age related cognitive decline (ARCD) who did and did not become demented during a follow up period. Twenty four patients with ARCD were recruited from an outpatient memory clinic, of whom 18 were followed up over a mean period of two years. Eighteen patients with mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's disease and 18 aged normal controls were followed up over a mean period of three years. Memory performance and rCBF were evaluated quantitatively at inclusion and during follow up, using single photon emission computed tomography with xenon-133 injection and three subtests of the Wechsler memory scale (logical memory, paired associated learning, and digit span). Patients with ARCD showed decreased rCBF and memory performance at initial evaluation compared with controls. Five of them became demented during the follow up period, with further decline in memory and rCBF. At inclusion, the only feature that distinguished these five patients as a group from the remainder was a pronounced temporoparietal asymmetry. The 13 patients with ARCD who did not become demented still exhibited impaired memory and rCBF at follow up, but without any further decline and no increase in flow asymmetry. Apart from patients in the preclinical phase of Alzheimer's disease, the ARCD category includes non-demented patients who have brain dysfunction that may represent a distinct clinical entity."}
{"id": "9217686", "title": "The temporal variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "The temporal variant of frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia is a dementia syndrome with diverse clinical characteristics. Based upon clinical parameters and single photon emission computed tomography, we identified 47 frontotemporal dementia subjects. In 10 of these 47 the primary site of brain dysfunction was anterior temporal and orbital-frontal with other frontal regions relatively spared. In this temporal lobe variant (TLV) of frontotemporal dementia, five of the subjects had more severe left-sided, and five had more right-sided, hypoperfusion. The clinical, neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric features of predominantly left-sided (LTLV) and right-sided (RTLV) TLV subjects are discussed and contrasted with more frontal presentations of frontotemporal dementia. In LTLV, aphasia was usually the first and most severe clinical abnormality RTLV patients presented with behavioural disorders characterized by irritability, impulsiveness, bizarre alterations in dress, limited and fixed ideas, decreased facial expression and increased visual alertness. These findings suggest that: (i) frontotemporal dementia is clinically heterogeneous with bitemporal and inferior frontal lobe dysfunction contributing to the clinical presentation; (ii) behavioural disturbance and aphasia are the most prominent features of predominantly temporal subtypes of frontotemporal dementia; (iii) the right and left anterior temporal regions may mediate different behavioural functions. The results of this study suggests that TLV offers a valuable source of information concerning the behavioural disorders seen with combined anterior temporal and inferior frontal lobe dysfunction."}
{"id": "9196477", "title": "Cerebral angioplasty in a patient with vascular dementia.", "content": "Cerebral angioplasty in a patient with vascular dementia. A 66-year-old man with a history of previous transient ischemic attacks had progressive memory and gait disturbance caused by severe stenoses of both the internal carotid arteries and vertebral arteries. The patient underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the vertebral arteries and endarterectomy of the internal carotid arteries with satisfactory results. On admission, the patient was alert, but disoriented to time and place. He exhibited mild motor weakness in both legs. Neuropsychological tests revealed remarkable intellectual deterioration and he required maximum support to perform activities of daily living. Higher cortical function and the ability to perform activities of daily living improved remarkably after the angioplasty. Angioplasty is an alternative therapy to reverse functional deficits in patients with cerebrovascular hemodynamic compromise."}
{"id": "9194952", "title": "The diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging and technetium 99m-HMPAO single-photon-emission computed tomography for the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease in a community-dwelling elderly population.", "content": "The diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging and technetium 99m-HMPAO single-photon-emission computed tomography for the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease in a community-dwelling elderly population. The objective of this study was to assess the diagnostic value for Alzheimer disease (AD) of single-photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), separately and in combination. The study was part of a two-stage population-based study of mental functioning among noninstitutionalized 65-to 85-year-olds living in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Participants (n = 51) were randomly selected within strata of cognitive function to obtain a sample of AD patients (n = 10) and clinically normal subjects (n = 41), of whom 22 displayed some cognitive impairment and fulfilled criteria for \"minimal dementia\" according to the Cambridge Examination for Mental Disorders of the Elderly. Coronal T1-weighted MRI was used to visualize the medial temporal lobe. Medial temporal lobe atrophy (MTA) was assessed qualitatively on a 0-4 scale. Regional cerebral blood flow on SPECT was assessed with the use of technetium 99m-HMPAO in three manually drawn regions of interest (frontal, parietal, and temporoparietal). Ratios were calculated by using the cerebellum as the reference area. MTA differed significantly between AD patients and clinically normal subjects (p = 0.0009), with sensitivity for AD of 70% and a specificity of 76%. None of the three SPECT ratios differed between normal and AD subjects. The temporoparietal/cerebellar ratio had a sensitivity of 30% and a specificity of 71% as a cutoff of 0.76. When both tests were positive the combined sensitivity was low (20%), but the false-positive rate was also very low (5%). A negative result on MRI or any SPECT ratio yielded a high specificity (93%-98%) but also a high false-negative rate (60-80%). Adding SPECT to MRI seems useful only if a diagnosis of AD is suspected clinically and confirmation is needed. When the clinical probability that AD is absent is high, normal results on either MRI or SPECT may confirm this notion. Given the fact that structural imaging should be performed in a clinical workup for dementia, using MRI only would be the most cost-effective approach."}
{"id": "9190725", "title": "[Dementia].", "content": "[Dementia]."}
{"id": "9189144", "title": "Discriminative use of SPECT in frontal lobe-type dementia versus (senile) dementia of the Alzheimer's type.", "content": "Discriminative use of SPECT in frontal lobe-type dementia versus (senile) dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Dementia of the Alzheimer's type [(S)DAT] and dementia with frontal features (FLD) are nosological entities with different prognoses and presumed pathophysiology. There is a need for noninvasive differential diagnostic tools. To evaluate whether SPECT perfusion imaging could discriminate between these neurodegenerative disorders, we performed a comparative study. SPECT scans using 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) of 21 patients with FLD were compared with those obtained in a group of 19 age- and severity-matched patients suffering from (S)DAT. Brain SPECT perfusion deficits were scored by visual qualitative analysis with respect to location, lateralization and severity. A total severity score of cerebral hypoperfusion (maximal value = 18) was calculated by adding all severity scores (scored between 0 and 3; 0 = no perfusion deficit; 1 = 13%-30% hypoperfusion; 2 = 30%-50%, hypoperfusion and 3 = > 50% hypoperfusion including breaching of the cortex) for right and left frontal, parietal and temporal lobes. Moreover, bifrontal hypoperfusion (Fa) was scored, yielding a value between 0 and 6 by adding the two frontal severity scores. No significant correlation was found between MMSE scores and total severity scores on SPECT. A statistically significant correlation was found between the Middelheim frontality score and frontal severity score. Statistically more significant bilateral hypoperfusion of the parietal lobes was found in the (S)DAT group. Conversely, bifrontal hypoperfusion was found more in the FLD group. Stepwise logistic regression analysis identified the severity of bifrontal hypoperfusion as the most significant contributing parameter to correctly classifying (S)DAT versus FLD on SPECT. The probability of predicting (S)DAT based on the SPECT scan is calculated with the following formula: [equation: see text] Using this equation, a value above 0.5 was predictive for (S)DAT and a calculated value under 0.5 was predictive for FLD. Using this model, 81% of the FLD group and 74% of the (S)DAT were correctly classified. Technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT may help in discriminating FLD from (S)DAT. Bifrontal hypoperfusion was found to be the most powerful predictor of clinical classification. Further validation of the presented logistic regression model is warranted."}
{"id": "9169566", "title": "Dementia with lewy bodies: a study of post-synaptic dopaminergic receptors with iodine-123 iodobenzamide single-photon emission tomography.", "content": "Dementia with lewy bodies: a study of post-synaptic dopaminergic receptors with iodine-123 iodobenzamide single-photon emission tomography. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) can at present only be diagnosed with certainty by neuropathological examination. Diagnosis during life remains at best probable, based on the presence of symptoms known from autopsy studies to be frequently associated with DLB. The greatest practical clinical problem lies in distinguishing DLB and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In DLB there is a considerable degeneration of nigral neurones with depletion of striatal dopamine. In contrast, AD is not associated with significant changes in dopamine metabolism. Iodine-123 iodobenzamide single-photon emission tomography (IBZM-SPET) measures post-synaptic dopamine D2 neuroreceptor availability in the corpus striatum, but is nevertheless a method for assessing the integrity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. Sixteen clinically diagnosed DLB patients, 15 normal controls and 13 AD patients underwent IBZM-SPET. All subjects were scanned 1.5-2 h after intravenous injection of 185 MBq of 123I-IBZM. Circular regions of interest were employed to calculate radioactivity ratios in each hemisphere as follows: caudate nucleus/frontal cortex, putamen/frontal cortex and caudate nucleus/putamen. The DLB patients had significantly lower left caudate/putamen ratios (95% confidence intervals: DLB 0.893-0.965, AD 0.972-1.175, controls 1.031-1.168) than either controls or AD patients, and significantly lower right caudate/putamen ratios (95% confidence intervals: DLB 0.926-1.019, AD 0.954-1.103, controls 1. 027-1.144) than controls. Our data suggest that patients with DLB diagnosed by clinical criteria have changes in striatal post-synaptic D2 receptors. This may be of value in distinguishing DLB from AD during life."}
{"id": "9169565", "title": "Demonstration of a reduction in muscarinic receptor binding in early Alzheimer's disease using iodine-123 dexetimide single-photon emission tomography.", "content": "Demonstration of a reduction in muscarinic receptor binding in early Alzheimer's disease using iodine-123 dexetimide single-photon emission tomography. Decreased muscarinic receptor binding has been suggested in single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies of Alzheimer's disease. However, it remains unclear whether these changes are present in mildly demented patients, and the role of cortical atrophy in receptor binding assessment has not been investigated. We studied muscarinic receptor binding normalized to neostriatum with SPET using [123I]4-iododexetimide in five mildly affected patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and in five age-matched control subjects. Region of interest (ROI) analysis was performed in a consensus procedure blind to clinical diagnosis using matched magnetic resonance (MRI) images. Cortical atrophy was assessed by calculating percentages of cerebrospinal fluid in each ROI. An observer study with three observers was conducted to validate this method. Alzheimer patients showed statistically significantly less [123I]4-iododexetimide binding in left temporal and right temporo-parietal cortex compared with controls, independent of age, sex and cortical atrophy. Mean intra-observer variability was 3.6% and inter-observer results showed consistent differences in [123I]4-iododexetimide binding between observers. However, differences between patients and controls were comparable among observers and statistically significant in the same regions as in the consensus procedure. Using an MRI-SPET matching technique, we conclude that [123I]4-iododexetimide binding is reduced in patients with mild probable Alzheimer's disease in areas of temporal and temporo-parietal cortex."}
{"id": "9143477", "title": "Comparison of PET, SPET, neuropsychological and morphological findings in vascular dementia.", "content": "Comparison of PET, SPET, neuropsychological and morphological findings in vascular dementia."}
{"id": "9143472", "title": "Brain perfusion scintigraphy with 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT single-photon emission tomography in dementia of the Alzheimer-type and diffuse Lewy body disease.", "content": "Brain perfusion scintigraphy with 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT single-photon emission tomography in dementia of the Alzheimer-type and diffuse Lewy body disease. Dementia of the Alzheimer-type (DAT) is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, variably combined with frontal lobe release signs, parkinsonian symptoms and myoclonus. The features of diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), the second most common cause of degenerative dementia, include progressive cognitive deterioration, often associated with levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, fluctuations of cognitive and motor functions, psychotic symptoms (visual and auditory hallucinations, depression), hypersensitivity to neuroleptics and orthostatic hypotension. A recent report suggests that positron emission tomography studies in patients with degenerative dementia may be useful in the differential diagnosis of DAT and DLBD. However, the diagnostic role of single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies remains to be established. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate regional cerebral perfusion [with either technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) or 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) SPET] and striatal dopamine transporter density [using iodine-123 2 beta-carboxymethoxy-3 beta-[4-iodophenyl]tropane (123I-beta-CIT) SPET] in patients with DAT and DLBD. Six patients with probable DAT and seven patients with probable DLBD were studied. Blinded qualitative assessment by four independent raters of 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD SPET studies revealed bilateral temporal and/or parietal hypoperfusion in all DAT patients. There was additional frontal hypoperfusion in two patients and occipital hypoperfusion in one patient. In the DLBD group, regional cerebral perfusion had a different pattern. In addition to temporoparietal hypoperfusion there was occipital hypoperfusion resembling a horseshoe defect in six of seven patients. In the DAT group, the mean 3-h striatal/cerebellar ratio of 123I-beta-CIT binding was 2.5 +/- 0.4, with an increase to 5.5 +/- 1.1 18 h after tracer injection. In comparison, in the DLBD patients the mean 3-h striatal/cerebellar ratio of 123I-beta-CIT binding was significantly reduced to 1.7 +/- 0.3, with a modest increase to 2.1 +/- 0.4 18 h after tracer injection (P < 0.05, Scheffe test, ANOVA). These results suggest that 99mTc-HMPAO or 99mTc-ECD and 123I-beta-CIT SPET may contribute to the differential diagnosis between DAT and DLBD, showing different perfusion patterns and more severe impairment of dopamine transporter function in DLBD than in DAT."}
{"id": "9125732", "title": "[Japanese version of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory--a scoring system for neuropsychiatric disturbance in dementia patients].", "content": "[Japanese version of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory--a scoring system for neuropsychiatric disturbance in dementia patients]. Neuropsychiatric disturbances are common and burdensome symptoms of dementias. Assessment and measurement of neuropsychiatric disturbances are indispensable to the management of patients with dementia and for clinical research. No standardized instruments have been developed for these purposes in Japan. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), developed by Cummings et al., is a standardized, validated, and reliable tool to assess a wide range of neuropsychiatric derangements in patients with dementia, and has been used in clinical studies in North America. In this study, we prepared a Japanese version of the NPI and tested its reliability and usefulness in dementia patients. The subjects were 174 patients with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease (140), frontotemporal dementia (12), vascular dementia (19), and normal pressure hydrocephalus (3), whose diagnosis was made on the basis of the results of extensive examinations including MRI and PET/SPECT of the brain and appropriate clinical diagnostic criteria for each disorder. The subjects consisted of 133 women and 41 men; their mean age was 72.6 +/- 7.7 years (S.D.; range: 49 to 88) years. An examiner (neurologist) used the NPI to interview a caregiver familiar with the patient's everyday behavior. In 24 randomly selected patients interview was repeated by another examiner (psychiatrist) one month later, and test-retest reliability was evaluated. The Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS) were used to assess the severity of the dementia and cognitive impairment. The MMSE scores ranged from 5 to 29 (mean +/- SD = 19.0 +/- 4.8) and the ADAS scores ranged from 7 to 63 (24.3 +/- 10.9). The CDR score was 0.5 in 17 patients, 1 in 95 patients, 2 in 52 patients, and 3 in 10 patient. Test-retest reliability of each score was acceptably high, and the correlation coefficient for each score obtained by repeated assessments in this study was similar to the coefficient in the original report. Apathy was the most common behavior in the ten abnormal behavioral domains, and euphoria was the least common. The prevalence of abnormal findings was also comparable to the results in the original report. The total NPI scores and many of the NPI subscale scores were significantly correlated with both the severity of dementia and cognitive impairment. This Japanese version of NPI, whose reliability and competency are comparable to those of the original version, is a reliable and useful tool for measuring neuropsychiatric disturbances in dementia patients."}
{"id": "9120420", "title": "rCBF SPECT in Parkinson's disease patients with mental dysfunction.", "content": "rCBF SPECT in Parkinson's disease patients with mental dysfunction. Functional imaging of the brain using SPECT provides information correlative to the alterations of regional blood flow. In this paper we review the literature pertaining to SPECT in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia and depression. Parkinson's disease itself is not associated with a consistent pattern of cerebral blood flow alterations in the basal ganglia, but reduced parietal blood flow is more often reported. The heterogeneity of blood flow changes possibly reflects the multifactorial pathophysiology of the disease. In demented Parkinson's disease patients frontal hypoperfusion is often found or bilateral temporoparietal deficits, probably indicative of concomitant Alzheimer's disease. The SPECT studies undertaken in depressed patients with and without Parkinson's disease show highly conflicting and inconsistent results, probably due to methodological and diagnostic flaws (especially the inclusion of demented Parkinson patients). Several lines of reasoning point to a prefrontal dysfunction and future SPECT studies are planned to study this region in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients with and without major depression."}
{"id": "9112592", "title": "Subcortical type cognitive impairment in herpes zoster encephalitis.", "content": "Subcortical type cognitive impairment in herpes zoster encephalitis. Nine immunocompetent patients with acute herpes zoster encephalitis (HZE) were studied with the help of neurological investigations. All patients were treated with acyclovir. Neuropsychological performance was compared with that of a group of 16 healthy controls. Computed tomography of the head showed infarct-like hypodense lesions in two patients, involving the internal capsule in one case and the temporoparietal cortex and white matter in another. Hypoperfusion shown by single photon emission computed tomography, mostly involving the frontal areas bilaterally, was seen in six of the seven patients examined. Hyperperfusion as seen in herpes simplex encephalitis was not encountered. One patient remained mildly demented, but all the other patients recovered relatively well. Neuropsychological examination after acyclovir treatment showed a decline in memory and speed of cognitive processes, without circumscribed neuropsychological deficits. Six of the nine patients showed behavioural disinhibition, and mood changes were also observed. Memory impairment in HZE was not as global or as severe as is described after encephalitis due to herpes simplex virus. In HZE both the brain perfusion pattern and the neuropsychological test profile showed features compatible with subcortical dysfunction."}
{"id": "9109881", "title": "A study of the Lund-Manchester research criteria for frontotemporal dementia: clinical and single-photon emission CT correlations.", "content": "A study of the Lund-Manchester research criteria for frontotemporal dementia: clinical and single-photon emission CT correlations. We evaluated the Lund-Manchester research criteria (LMRC) for frontotemporal dementia (FTD). With single-photon emission CT, we diagnosed 30 patients with FTD. These patients were compared with 30 with a research diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We scored every patient on each LMRC item and compared the two groups. A discriminant function showed that loss of personal awareness, hyperorality, stereotyped and perseverative behavior, progressive reduction of speech, and preserved spatial orientation differentiated 100% of FTD and AD subjects. Items relating to affect and physical findings were not different in FTD versus AD. Loss of personal awareness, eating, perseverative behavior, and reduction of speech are the LMRC items that most clearly differentiate FTD from AD."}
{"id": "9104760", "title": "Longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease using single photon emission tomography.", "content": "Longitudinal study of cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease using single photon emission tomography. Ten patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were assessed at baseline and a mean 2 years later using a battery of neuropsychological tests, CT scans and Tc99m-HMPAO SPECT scans. The subjects had declined significantly in their functional indices. Cerebral perfusion measures declined in the parietal lobes, left hemisphere and whole brain, but the overall decline did not reach statistical significance. The decline in brain perfusion did not correlate significantly with the decline in various indices of neuropsychological function, either globally or for specific brain regions. The index of cerebral perfusion correlated significantly with global indices of neuropsychological function at baseline but not at follow-up. No single perfusion index was a significant predictor of clinical progression of dementia."}
{"id": "9100154", "title": "Sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of technetium 99-HMPAO SPECT in discriminating Alzheimer's disease from other dementias.", "content": "Sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of technetium 99-HMPAO SPECT in discriminating Alzheimer's disease from other dementias. Investigators have reported high sensitivity and specificity values for single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) when distinguishing Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients from normal elderly controls or from selected patient groups. The role of SPECT in identifying AD among unselected patients with memory complaints requires investigation. We examined 139 consecutive patients with 99Tc-HMPAO SPECT. NINCDS-ADRDA diagnoses were determined blind to SPECT results, and scans were read and classified by visual inspection blind to clinical diagnoses. Bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion (TP) occurred in 75% of probable, 65% of possible, and 45% of unlikely AD patients, yielding a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 52% when comparing probable AD versus unlikely AD groups. A positive predictive value of 78% was obtained based on a 69% prevalence of AD in our total clinic population. Patients with false-positive results included a variety of dementing illnesses; all patients with bilateral hypoperfusion had dementia. A pattern of TP on SPECT scans is seen in most patients with AD, but could be found in other dementias as well and cannot be regarded as specific to AD. Reduced TP perfusion discriminated between demented and nondemented individuals. Further strategies for SPECT interpretation that improve diagnostic specificity should be sought."}
{"id": "9093504", "title": "Aggressive, socially disruptive and antisocial behaviour associated with fronto-temporal dementia.", "content": "Aggressive, socially disruptive and antisocial behaviour associated with fronto-temporal dementia. Research suggests an association between frontal and temporal injury and antisocial conduct. We studied the frequency of antisocial behaviours in fronto-temporal dementia (FTD) where pathology is anterior frontal-temporal, compared with Alzheimer's disease (AD) where pathology is primarily posterior temporal-parietal. The presence of antisocial conduct was compared in 22 FTD versus 22 AD subjects. All FTD patients had anterior frontal or temporal hypoperfusion with single photon emission computed tomography, whereas those with AD had posterior temporal-parietal hypoperfusion. Ten FTD and one AD subject showed antisocial behaviours, which included assault, indecent exposure, shoplifting and hit-and-run driving. Three FTD subjects were arrested. This difference was highly significant (P = 0.004). Degeneration of frontal and temporal lobes predisposes to antisocial behaviour. This study supports a relationship between frontal-temporal dysfunction and certain types of antisocial activities."}
{"id": "9065320", "title": "The use of SPECT in a multidisciplinary memory clinic.", "content": "The use of SPECT in a multidisciplinary memory clinic. We tested the interobserver reliability of visual rating of HMPAO-SPECT imaging in 271 outpatients referred to a memory clinic, and followed over 1 year. The clinical diagnoses were Alzheimer's disease (n = 156), frontotemporal dementia (n = 47); vascular dementia (n = 21), senile dementia of Lewy body type (n = 12), anxiety/depressive disorders (n = 14) and miscellaneous memory disorders (n = 21). The interobserver agreement was good (k = 0.68). However, the heterogeneity of the patterns-independent from demographic data, age at onset and duration of the disease- and their lack of sensibility and specificity limited the contribution of SPECT for diagnostic purposes in routine practice."}
{"id": "9059759", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia. Primary progressive aphasia is an important recently emphasized clinical syndrome that is a common early manifestation of Pick's disease and Pick complex pathology. It is defined clinically as slowly progressive language disturbance that remains relatively isolated from other cognitive or behavioral deficits for at least 2 years. Subsequently, it may become associated with behavioral changes similar to those in frontal lobe dementia (FLD), extrapyramidal manifestations, and apraxia similar to corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and with motor neuron disease. Both the common nonfluent or logopenic variety leading to mutism (frontal involvement) and fluent or semantic varieties (temporal involvement) are recognized. Neuroimaging with CT, MRI, and SPECT are useful adjuncts confirming the diagnosis. PPA is a manifestation of frontotemporal degeneration or Pick complex, which is probably the second most common degenerative dementia after AD."}
{"id": "9051035", "title": "Brain blood flow in the dementias: SPECT with histopathologic correlation in 54 patients.", "content": "Brain blood flow in the dementias: SPECT with histopathologic correlation in 54 patients. To evaluate single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) imaging of regional cerebral blood flow in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) and the differential diagnosis of the dementias. Regional cerebral blood flow SPECT was performed with inhaled xenon-133 in 261 patients and with injected technetium-99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) in 162 patients with possible dementia. In 16 patients, both agents were used in 1 day. SPECT images obtained in elderly healthy control subjects (with Xe-133 in 15, with Tc-99m HMPAO in 14) were available. In each patient without AD, further classification of disease was attempted. Histopathologic correlation was available in 54 patients (with autopsy in 51, with biopsy in three). SPECT diagnoses were true-positive in 37, true-negative in eight, false-positive in three, and false-negative in six patients. Sensitivity was 86% (37 of 43; 95% confidence limits = .72, .95); specificity, 73% (eight of 11; confidence limits = .39, .94); positive predictive value, 92% (37 of 40; confidence limits = .80, .98); and negative predictive value, 57% (eight of 14; confidence limits = .29, .82). Regional cerebral blood flow SPECT may assist in the early and late diagnoses of AD and in the differential-diagnosis of the dementias when there is a complicated or confusing clinical picture."}
{"id": "9043743", "title": "Regional HmPAO SPECT and CT measurements in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Regional HmPAO SPECT and CT measurements in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. This study investigated the hypothesis that the combination of regional CT brain atrophy measurements and semiquantitative SPECT regional blood flow ratios could produce a diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease (AD) with an accuracy comparable to that achieved with the present clinical gold standard of the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Single proton emission computed tomography (SPECT) and CT head scans were performed on 122 subjects referred an UBC Alzheimer clinic and diagnosed as either 'not demented' (ND-37) or 'possible/probable AD' (AD-85) by the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Stepwise discriminant analysis (SDA) was performed on the bilateral SPECT regions of interest and compared to bilateral CT qualitative/quantitative assessment in the frontal, parietal and temporal lobes to determine which were most accurate at ND/AD distinction. Receiver operating curves (ROC) were then constructed for these variables individually and for their combined discriminant function. The left temporal qualitative cortical atrophy score (CT) and left temporal perfusion ratio (SPECT) were selected in the SDA. The combined discriminant function was more specific at AD/ND distinction than either of CT or SPECT alone. The accuracy of AD/ND distinction with the combined discriminant function was below that achieved by clinical diagnosis according to the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and was not significantly different from that achieved with SPECT or CT alone as defined by ROC curve analysis. The measurements of left temporal cortical atrophy and regional cerebral blood flow were most indicative of AD; however they lacked the sensitivity and specificity to recommend their use as a diagnostic test for AD."}
{"id": "9029063", "title": "Hereditary frontotemporal dementia is linked to chromosome 17q21-q22: a genetic and clinicopathological study of three Dutch families.", "content": "Hereditary frontotemporal dementia is linked to chromosome 17q21-q22: a genetic and clinicopathological study of three Dutch families. Hereditary frontotemporal dementia (HFTD) is a rare autosomal dominant form of presenile dementia characterized by behavioral changes and reduced speech. Three multigeneration kindreds with this condition, in the Netherlands, were investigated for clinicopathological comparison and linkage analysis. Frontotemporal atrophy on computed tomographic scanning and/or magnetic resonance imaging was usually present. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed frontal hypoperfusion in the early phase of the disease. Brain tissue showed moderate to severe atrophy of frontal and temporal cortex with neuronal loss, gliosis, and spongiosis. Pick bodies were lacking in all cases of the 3 families. The mean age of onset varied significantly between families. We report here evidence for linkage to chromosome 17q21-q22 with a maximum lod score of 4.70 at theta = 0.05 with the marker D17S932. Recombination analysis positions the gene for HFTD in a region of approximately 5 cM between markers D17S946 and D17S791. Three other neurodegenerative disorders with a strong clinical and pathological resemblance have recently been mapped to the same chromosomal region, suggesting that a group of clinically related neurodegenerative disorders may originate from mutations in the same gene."}
{"id": "9014457", "title": "[Analysis of Parkinson's disease and related syndromes using 123I-IMP-SPECT with the ARG method].", "content": "[Analysis of Parkinson's disease and related syndromes using 123I-IMP-SPECT with the ARG method]. We studied regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 8 patients with non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD). 1 patient with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), 1 patient with multiple system atrophy (MSA), and 7 normal control subjects using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the IMP-ARG method. Regions of interest were studied in the cerebral cortex (upper frontal, lower frontal, temporal, occipital, parietal), thalamus, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. In patients with PD, rCBF was normal in 4/8, and decreased in occipital lobe in 4/8. In patient with PSP, rCBF was decreased in the upper and lower frontal lobes, and in the cerebellum. In patient with MSA, rCBF was diminished in the cerebellum. The results of our study were almost compatible with the conventional rCBF study by positron emission tomography (PET), however, the decrease of rCBF in occipital lobe had rarely been reported, suggesting that might be related to visuospatial dysfunction in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "9008513", "title": "Specific semantic memory loss after hypoxic-ischemic injury.", "content": "Specific semantic memory loss after hypoxic-ischemic injury. A patient is reported who suffered hypoxic-ischemic injury causing isolated and eventually partially reversible semantic memory loss. Despite normal MRI findings, single-photon emission CT demonstrated dysfunction in posterior cortical association areas. Semantic memory is the sum of categorical, perceptual, and conceptual knowledge. While not localized in a strict sense like visual fields, semantic memory is thought to be broadly organized in the posterior association cortices, with a particular focus in the inferior temporal regions. Evidence for this has come from patients with herpes simplex encephalitis, temporo-occipital infarctions, and dementias. This case confirms the importance of these cortical regions for semantic memory. The rapid recovery in this case, as opposed to the encephalitis or infarction cases, suggests an important role for preservation of white matter connections in the region for reconstitution of function."}
{"id": "8994482", "title": "HM-PAO (CERETEC) SPECT brain scanning in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "HM-PAO (CERETEC) SPECT brain scanning in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. To evaluate the accuracy of Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) scanning in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and its capacity to improve the diagnostic accuracy of conventional clinical evaluation. Comparison of SPECT scanning of AD and normal subjects with the criterion standard of clinical diagnosis confirmed by 1-year repeated evaluation. A memory clinic in a tertiary care university hospital. One hundred twenty patients were evaluated upon entering the Jewish General Hospital (McGill University) Memory Clinic. Fifty-eight patients were diagnosed as having AD and 17 as having vascular dementia. Twenty unmatched controls (recruited mainly through newspaper advertisements) were normal, and 25 had cognitive impairment without dementia (not included in the statistical analysis). Comparison of visual inspection of SPECT, based on the system of classification developed by Holman et al., using B pattern alone as positive or B (bilateral posterior temporal and/or parietal cortex deficits) or C (bilateral posterior temporal and/or parietal deficits with additional defects) pattern and B or C or D (unilateral posterior temporal and/or parietal defects with or without additional defects) as positive compared with clinical diagnosis after repeated evaluations. Sensitivity and specificity, as well as positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) based on the prevalence of AD in a memory clinic setting of 30% or 50%, were calculated. With B pattern as positive, the sensitivity of SPECT was 21% whereas the specificity was 80%. With B or C as positive, the sensitivity was 29% and the specificity was 75%. With B or C or D as positive, the sensitivity was 55% and the specificity was 65%. With a 30% prevalence, the PPV with B pattern as positive was 31% whereas the NPV was 30%. The PPV with B or C as positive was 33% while the NPV was 29%, and the PPV with B or C or D as positive was 40% whereas the NPV was 23%. With a 50% prevalence, the PPV with B pattern as positive was 51% and the NPV 49.6%; the PPV with B or C as positive was 54% and the NPV 48.6%; the PPV with B or C or D as positive was 61% while NPV was 41%. The sensitivity and specificity were too low for SPECT to be useful as a diagnostic test for AD. The poor positive and negative predictive values in our tertiary care clinic mean that SPECT is not useful in \"ruling-in\" or \"ruling-out\" AD in that setting. In fact, clinical evaluation is more accurate."}
{"id": "16873180", "title": "Reduced Global Cerebral Blood Flow in Non-Demented HIV Positive Patients.", "content": "Reduced Global Cerebral Blood Flow in Non-Demented HIV Positive Patients. Twelve non-demented HIV positive men with different degrees of immunodeficiency were examined with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Reduction in relative global cerebral blood flow was found in HIV positive patients compared to healthy HIV negative controls (p = 0.014). In the patients there was also a change in cerebral flow distribution, with lower global flow compared to central flow (p = 0.01), most pronounced in patients with early disease. In the patients with advanced HIV disease the relative cerebral blood flow was lower than in the controls in 108 of 116 (93%) regions investigated."}
{"id": "9384969", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in psychiatry: current perspectives.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in psychiatry: current perspectives. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a widely available neuroimaging technique for the three-dimensional assessment of regional cerebral blood flow. The clinical utility of SPECT in neuropsychiatry is well established, and research devoted to its use in primary psychiatric disorders has been gaining momentum. In this review recent developments in SPECT neuroimaging are described, including the utility of SPECT in the differential diagnosis of the dementias and other neuropsychiatric conditions; SPECT studies of patients with affective disorders, at baseline and after treatment; and SPECT studies utilizing innovative techniques such as neuroreceptor imaging and activation strategies. Advances in SPECT research methodology and study design that may contribute to clarifying the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders are examined."}
{"id": "9109979", "title": "Brain SPECT in dementia. A clinical-scintigraphic correlation.", "content": "Brain SPECT in dementia. A clinical-scintigraphic correlation. The aim of this study was to compare the accuracy of computed tomography (CT) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) in the diagnosis of dementia. Fifty-two patients with clinical diagnosis of dementia and 11 controls were studied. The scans were interpreted by one experienced neuroradiologist and one nuclear radiologist, both blinded to the clinical data. In the diagnosis of dementia, CT and SPECT showed equal sensitivity (82.7%) and statistically similar specificity (63.8 and 81.8%, respectively). The specificity of SPECT in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (100%) was statistically superior to CT (69%). However, both methods showed similar sensitivity in detecting Alzheimer's disease. In conclusion, SPECT and CT showed similar accuracy in the diagnosis of dementia. The quite high specificity of SPECT in Alzheimer's disease may be useful for confirming that diagnosis, particularly for patients with presenile onset of the disease."}
{"id": "8999423", "title": "[Semiquantitative 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in dementia of the Alzheimer type: influence of the selection of reconstruction filter and reference region].", "content": "[Semiquantitative 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in dementia of the Alzheimer type: influence of the selection of reconstruction filter and reference region]. The aim of the study was to clarify, whether the selection of the reference-region and/or the reconstruction-filter influences the result of the semiquantitative analysis of a 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT that was conducted to diagnose the dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). A group of 19 DAT-patients according to the criteria of NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-III-R was examined together with a comparison group (n = 14) with normal cerebral perfusion. Three reference-regions (cerebellum, whole slice, occipital cortex) and four reconstruction-filters (Hanning fc = 0.7 and 1.0 Nyquist; Butterworth (n = 8); fc = 0.5 and 0.9 Nyquist) were applied to twelve standardized regions of interest (per patient) respectively. The data was evaluated through a ROC-analysis. It has been showed, that the bilateral parieto-temporal perfusion reduction as a characteristic of DAT depends on the filters and reference-regions used. The most secure separation of both groups of patients was obtained through a Butterworth-filter (n = 8; fc = 0.5) in combination with the cerebellum as reference-region. The selection of the reference-region and the reconstruction-filter has an important influence on the results of a semiquantitative analysis. Therefore standardisation in dependency on the actual questioning is necessary."}
{"id": "8997421", "title": "SPECT measurements of brain function in dementia; a review.", "content": "SPECT measurements of brain function in dementia; a review. A brief review of the role of SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) in the diagnosis of dementing brain disease is given. Between 1990 and 1995 some 100 original articles deal with SPECT measurements with radioactive tracers of brain function in demented patients. The main field is measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) but there is an increasing number of studies concerning receptor functions in the demented brain."}
{"id": "8994127", "title": "Dementia paralytica in a fifteen-year-old boy.", "content": "Dementia paralytica in a fifteen-year-old boy. A 15-year-old boy, whose history revealed an unremarkable pregnancy, birth and neonatal period and who had shown a normal motor and mental development, presented at the hospital with deterioration of cognitive functions since the age of 7. He was bedridden with manifest ataxia involving all limbs, anisocoria and a sluggish to absent pupil reaction to light. Syphilis serology was positive with a Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) titer of 1:256 and a Treponema pallidum Haemagglutination Assay (TPHA) titer of 1:163840. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein concentration was 55 mg/dl and CSF-leucocyte count was 14/mm3 (85% mononuclear cells). CSF-VDRL-titer was 1:16. A diagnosis of congenitally acquired dementia paralytica was made, since the boy's parents' clinical exam and serology results were suggestive for latent syphilis. Although cognition was still very much deteriorated five months following penicillin treatment, clinical examination revealed partial recuperation. Screening for syphilis should be part of routine testing in every subject presenting with cognitive deterioration, regardless of age."}
{"id": "8994103", "title": "Slowly progressive anarthria with late anterior opercular syndrome: a variant form of frontal cortical atrophy syndromes.", "content": "Slowly progressive anarthria with late anterior opercular syndrome: a variant form of frontal cortical atrophy syndromes. We describe eight patients with slowly progressive speech production deficit combining speech apraxia, dysarthria, dysprosody and orofacial apraxia, and initially no other deficit in other language and non-language neuropsychological domains. Long-term follow-up (6-10 years) in 4 cases showed an evolution to muteness, bilateral suprabulbar paresis with automatic-voluntary dissociation and frontal lobe cognitive slowing without generalised intellectual deterioration. Most disabled patients presented with an anterior opercular syndrome (Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome), and pyramidal or extrapyramidal signs. CT and MRI findings disclosed asymmetric (left > right) progressive cortical atrophy of the frontal lobes predominating in the posterior inferior frontal region, notably the operculum. SPECT and PET revealed a decreased cerebral blood flow and metabolism, prominent in the left posterior-inferior frontal gyrus and premotor cortex, extending bilaterally in the most advanced cases. Pathological study of two cases showed non-specific neuronal loss, gliosis, and spongiosis of superficial cortical layers, mainly confined to the frontal lobes, with no significant abnormalities in the basal ganglia, thalamus, cerebellum, brain stem (except severe neuronal loss in the substantia nigra in one case), and spinal cord. We propose to call this peculiar syndrome Slowly Progressive Anarthria (SPA), based on its specific clinical presentation, and its metabolic and pathological correlates. SPA represents another clinical expression of focal cortical degeneration syndromes, that may overlap with other similar syndromes, specially primary progressive aphasia and the various frontal lobe dementias."}
{"id": "8981295", "title": "Vascular dementia: still a debatable entity?", "content": "Vascular dementia: still a debatable entity? Vascular dementia (VAD) is currently considered to be the second most common cause of dementia in Europe and the USA, second to dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT). However, in Asia and many developing countries the incidence of VAD exceeds that of DAT. The positive clinical diagnostic workup for VAD requires six steps: (1) clear-cut quantitative assessment of cognitive deficits utilizing standard neuropsychological tests to establish and quantify the dementia syndrome and rule out pseudo-dementia OF depression; (2) ascertaining the presence of risk factors for stroke; (3) identifying cerebral vascular lesions by neuroimaging (MRI, Iodine or Xenon contrasted CT, PET and SPECT); (4) exclusion of other causes of dementia; (5) differential diagnosis of possible, probable or definite VAD versus DAT and ascertaining when there are mixtures of the two; and (6) temporal identification of causality between onset and progression of the dementia with identified cerebral vascular lesions. There are eight subtypes of VAD: (1) multi-infarct dementias. These are due to large cerebral emboli, and are usually readily identifiable; (2) strategically placed infarctions causing dementia; (3) multiple subcortical lacunar lesions. Patients with these develop VAD at least five to twenty-five times more frequently than those in age-matched general population samples; (4) Binswanger's disease (arteriosclerotic subcortical leuko-encephalopathy). This form is rare. Neuroimaging confirms the diagnosis during life but the diagnosis can not be made by neuroimaging alone; (5) mixtures of two or more of above VAD subtypes; (6) hemorrhagic lesions causing dementia; (7) subcortical dementias due to cerebral autosomally dominant arteriolopathy with subcortical infarcts and leuko-encephalopathy (CADASIL), or to familial amyloid angiopathies and coagulopathies all of which present with multiple subcortical lacunar lesions similar to Binswanger's disease; (8) mixtures of DAT and VAD. The clinical significance of leukoaraiosis and its suspected relationships to VAD remains to be better established. The presence of ischemic infarctions, single or multiple large or multiple small (lacunar) by neuroimaging are necessary for the diagnosis of VAD, but identifying their presence, by neuroimaging alone, does not permit the diagnosis of dementia which can only be established by neuropsychological assessments. VAD is a clinical entity, identifiable in at least 30-70% of patients after strokes but mechanisms responsible for the cognitive impairments are complex. Some of these mechanisms are incompletely understood but provide subjects for important future research."}
{"id": "8975130", "title": "Evaluation of suspected dementia.", "content": "Evaluation of suspected dementia."}
{"id": "8966268", "title": "[Clinical and instrumental diagnosis of Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia].", "content": "[Clinical and instrumental diagnosis of Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia]. We investigated the possible correlation between functional and anatomical imaging techniques and clinical exams in patients with Alzheimer's and vascular dementia. We examined 24 patients affected with dementia, 16 of them with Alzheimer's disease. 7 with multiinfarct and 1 with mixed dementia. All patients were submitted to clinical, morphological (MRI, CT) and functional (SPECT, cerebral flowmetry) studies. The severity of hypoperfusion revealed by SPECT was highly correlated with cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's dementia patients. The abnormal perfusion was mostly bilateral, in the temporal-parietal region, and involved the frontal regions only in the most severe cases. CT and especially MRI showed aspecific cortical and subcortical atrophy, most evident in the medial temporal region. In the patients with multiinfarct dementia, the hypoperfused cortical regions revealed by SPECT were sometimes related to vascular lesions proved at MRI and CT. In the patients with multiinfarct dementia, MRI showed more or less apparent white matter lesions referrable to ischemic insult, besides cortical and subcortical atrophy. MRI allows a differential diagnosis between these two cerebral pathologic conditions of aging. Cerebral flowmetry by Xenon 133 inhalation showed reduced cerebral blood flow in both dementia types. In Alzheimer patients, regional flow was reduced especially in the posterior parietal regions. In multiinfarct dementia patients, flow was more diffusely reduced and asymmetrical. Brain function imaging appears to yield useful information for the differential diagnosis in the most common dementia syndromes. Since the neuropathologic data from brain biopsy are rarely available, clinical and instrumental findings must be integrated for diagnostic and pathogenetic insights of the diseases causing cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "8951828", "title": "Living/non-living dissociation in a case of semantic dementia: a SPECT activation study.", "content": "Living/non-living dissociation in a case of semantic dementia: a SPECT activation study. A category-specific dissociation with massive deficits in semantic knowledge of animals and preservation of knowledge of objects was observed in a demented patient with a left inferior temporal cortical atrophy responsible for a deficit of visual semantic processing. When the patient successfully processed the semantic feature of aurally presented object names, a SPECT study showed an activation of the left posterior and middle temporal cortex (Wernicke's area). This haemodynamic pattern was not observed during an unsuccessful processing of animal names that was associated with an activation of the left and right inferior frontal regions. Activation in Wernicke's area probably reflects an adequate matching between auditory lexical input and semantic knowledge for entities with multimodal representations, such as man-made objects. Activation in Broca's area and its right homologous region may correspond to an unsuccessful phonological strategy to evoke semantic features of animals, a category that is mainly visually represented."}
{"id": "8949253", "title": "Functional imaging, affective disorder and dementia.", "content": "Functional imaging, affective disorder and dementia. Perfusion imaging has had modest success thus far in mood disorder. The most consistent findings in both primary major depression and in secondary depression have been reductions in inferior frontal cortex, adjacent cingulate cortex, temporal cortex and basal nuclei. They are compatible with a primary network for the integration of emotional experience in inferior frontal cortex, striatum and amygdala which is partially supported by the findings from relevant lesions and activation studies in normal controls. There are additional findings implicating dorso-lateral prefrontal and adjacent medial/limbic cortex in some patient groups. In elderly men particularly, reductions in prefrontal cortex appear to correlate with cognitive impairment. In dementia, perfusion imaging with single photon emission tomography (SPET) is becoming established as an important clinical tool ancillary to neuropsychological testing. Quantitation and statistical definitions of regional abnormality will be worthwhile innovations as camera systems become more technically advanced."}
{"id": "8937195", "title": "[Regional cerebral blood flow and periventricular hyperintensity in silent cerebral infarction--comparison with multi-infarct dementia].", "content": "[Regional cerebral blood flow and periventricular hyperintensity in silent cerebral infarction--comparison with multi-infarct dementia]. In order to investigate relationship between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and the white matter lesions on MRI in silent cerebral infarction, we quantitatively measured rCBF by 123I-IMP autoradiography method (IMP ARG method) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) in 36 patients with silent cerebral infarction (SCI group), 22 patients with multi-infarct dementia (MID group), and 16 control subjects without periventricular hyperintensity (PVH) and lacunar infarction on MRI (CL group). Regions of interest (ROIs) on rCBF images were set in the frontal (F), temporal (T), parietal (P), occipital (O) cortex, and the cerebral white matter (W). The severity of PVH on MRI T2-weighted image was divided into four grades (grade 0-3). Our results: 1) Though the frequency of hypertension was significantly higher in SCI group and MID group compared with CL group, no significant difference was seen in the mean age among these three groups. 2) rCBF in the white matter and cerebral cortices except the occipital cortex in SCI group was significantly low compared with CL group (gamma CBFSCI/gamma CBFCL: W 0.87, F 0.87, P 0.88, O 0.92). 3) rCBF in the white matter and cerebral cortices, especially in the white matter and frontal cortex, in MID group was significantly low compared with SCI group (gamma CBFMID/gamma CBFCL: W 0.69, F 0.71, T 0.74, P 0.75, O 0.81). 4) The mean grade of PVH in MID group was significantly higher that that in SCI group (SCI 1.1 vs MID 2.5). 5) The severity of PVH was significantly correlated with each rCBF in the white matter and cerebral cortices, especially in the white matter and frontal cortex. Our findings suggest that the quantitative measurement of rCBF by IMP ARG method is useful for the follow-up study in the patients with silent cerebral infarction as well as the evaluation of the severity of PVH on MRI."}
{"id": "8929178", "title": "Alzheimer disease and frontotemporal dementias. Behavioral distinctions.", "content": "Alzheimer disease and frontotemporal dementias. Behavioral distinctions. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a syndrome produced by lobar degeneration of the temporal and/or frontal lobes. To quantify the behavioral disturbances of FTD and compare them with behavioral changes observed in Alzheimer disease (AD). Cross-sectional comparison of 2 groups defined by research diagnostic criteria and single photon emission computed tomography. Behaviors were assessed using a standardized rating scale-Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Groups were matched for dementia severity. Patients were seen at 2 university-based outpatient dementia clinics and a Veterans Affairs medical center. Twenty-two patients with FTD and 30 patients with AD. Patients with FTD had significantly greater total Neuropsychiatric Inventory scores than patients with AD and exhibited more apathy, disinhibition, euphoria, and aberrant motor behavior. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory accurately assigned 77% of patients with FTD and 77% of patients with AD to the correct diagnostic group using disinhibition, apathy, and depression. Patients with FTD had higher levels of disinhibition and apathy with relatively lower levels of depression compared with patients with AD. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory provides a behavioral profile that differentiates patients with FTD from patients with AD. Patients with FTD are more behaviorally disturbed but are often less depressed than patients with AD relative to their level of apathy."}
{"id": "8921667", "title": "[A quantitative study of regional cerebral blood flow in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type using single photon emission computed tomography--clinical application of the IMP autoradiographic method (IMP ARG method)].", "content": "[A quantitative study of regional cerebral blood flow in patients with dementia of Alzheimer type using single photon emission computed tomography--clinical application of the IMP autoradiographic method (IMP ARG method)]. We quantitatively measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 37 patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) to investigate the clinical utilities of the N-isopropyl-p-[123I]iodoamphetamine autoradiographic method (IMP ARG method) that is a quantitative method more simplified and less invasive for IMP-SPECT developed by Iida et al. A given standard input function and a given value of distribution volume (Vd) used for the rCBF measurement of this method were calculated from the dynamic study by six normal volunteers. Mean values [SD] of rCBF (ml/ 100 g/min) in the Cerebral Cortex were 49.0 [6.0] in the controls (n = 20), 42.6 [5.9] in mild DAT group (n = 14), 36.7 [5.5] in moderate DAT group (n = 12), and 26.4 [7.5] in severe DAT group (n = 11), respectively. These values were significantly different between each neighboring group. Moreover, the correlations between the score by the Hasegawa dementia scale (HDS-R) and each rCBF were significant in the temporal, parietal, and frontal cortex. These findings suggest that the rCBF measurement in IMP-SPECT using this method is useful for the diagnosis of the clinical severity in patients with DAT."}
{"id": "8921531", "title": "[P300 findings in patients with corticobasal degeneration].", "content": "[P300 findings in patients with corticobasal degeneration]. An auditory discrimination paradigm was employed to elicit the P300 component of the event-related potentials from three patients with clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (CBD). Presenile and senile dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT), vascular dementia (VD) and age-matched control subjects were also examined. All patients with CBD manifested limb kinetic apraxia, hemiparkinsonism and mild dementia. Brain MRI revealed marked parietal atrophy, which was predominant in contralateral to the extremities with severe motor dysfunction. 123I-IMP SPECT analysis showed asymmetric reduction of cerebral blood flow, in accordance with the MRI findings. The P300 latencies in the two CBD patients were markedly prolonged compared to those of DAT and VD patients, although they were not as severely demented as DAT and VD patient. It should be noted that the P300 was not detected in one patient with CBD. The latencies of the N100 were not significantly different among the all groups. These abnormal findings of the P300 may be characteristic in CBD, and, furthermore, may be associated with the parietal lobe atrophy and low blood flow in cortex and thalamus revealed by brain MRI and SPECT."}
{"id": "8905776", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography brain imaging.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography brain imaging. SPECT brain perfusion imaging has definite value in the evaluation of cerebrovascular disease (particularly acute stroke), dementia, epilepsy, and may have a role in the diagnosis of brain death and head trauma. SPECT with tumor tracers T1-201 and Tc-99m sestamibi shows promise for detecting tumor recurrence."}
{"id": "8894190", "title": "Performance on neuropsychological tests related to single photon emission computerised tomography findings in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Performance on neuropsychological tests related to single photon emission computerised tomography findings in frontotemporal dementia. This study examines relations between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and neuropsychological test results, age at onset and duration of disease in patients with frontotemporal-type dementia (FTD). Sixteen patients with a diagnosis of probable FTD were examined using single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-HMPAO as the tracer. The rCBF of 14 regions of interest relative to cerebellar blood flow was calculated. Psychological tests assessing language, verbal fluency, memory and visuospatial constructive ability were given. Correlations were demonstrated between a global impairment score and relative blood flow in lateral frontal, medial frontal and left orbital frontal areas. Verbal fluency scores correlated with left lateral frontal, medial frontal and left anterior inferior temporal blood flow. No relationships between decrease in CBF and age at onset or duration of disease, or between impaired cognitive function and age at onset or duration of disease were found. The present study demonstrates a close coupling between reduced rCBF and specific neuropsychological deficits in FTD."}
{"id": "8890778", "title": "Progressive biparietal atrophy: an atypical presentation of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Progressive biparietal atrophy: an atypical presentation of Alzheimer's disease. To define the clinical, neuropsychological, and radiological features of bilateral parietal lobe atrophy. Four patients underwent a comprehensive longitudinal neuropsychological assessment, as well as MRI and HMPAO-SPECT. The consistent findings in the patients were early visuospatial problems, agraphia of a predominantly peripheral (or apraxic) type, and difficulty with bimanual tasks, all of which outweighted deficits in memory and language until later in the course of the illness. As the disease progressed, impairments in the phonological aspects of language and in auditory-verbal short term memory were often striking, perhaps reflecting spread from the parietal lobe to perisylvian language areas. Three patients went on to develop a global dementia and fulfilled the criteria for a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease; the fourth patient has only recently been identified. Neuroimaging disclosed bilateral parietal lobe atrophy (MRI) and hypoperfusion (SPECT), which was out of proportion to that seen elsewhere in the brain. One patient has died and had pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease with particular concentration in both superior parietal lobes. Bilateral biparietal atrophy is a recognisable clinical syndrome which can be the presenting feature of Alzheimer's disease. Although the label \"posterior cortical atrophy\" has been applied to such cases, review of the medical literature suggests that this broad rubric actually consists of two main clinical syndromes with features reflecting involvement of the occipitotemporal (ventral) and biparietal (dorsal) cortical areas respectively."}
{"id": "8883712", "title": "Nasal mucosal thickening simulating a tumor: potential for misdiagnosis in brain perfusion imaging.", "content": "Nasal mucosal thickening simulating a tumor: potential for misdiagnosis in brain perfusion imaging. A 33-year-old, female presenting with dementia was admitted to our institution. Except for slight muscle atrophy noted on both lower extremities there were no other significant physical signs or laboratory findings. Since initial Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT showed hypoperfusion on both temporal, parietal and occipital lobes, follow up study with the same radiotracer was done. Increase in uptake was noted in the left side of the face. There was no abnormality noted on ENT examination. CT scan and MRI showed slight nasal mucosal wall thickening. T1-201 SPECT showed increased uptake in the nasal area. The increase in uptake could be due to nasal mucosal thickening. This could simulate nasal tumor and interfere in determining ROI for brain perfusion studies."}
{"id": "8873880", "title": "A case of late-onset psychosis: integrating neuropsychological and SPECT data.", "content": "A case of late-onset psychosis: integrating neuropsychological and SPECT data. We report the case of a 67-year-old woman who experienced a sudden onset of psychotic illness (i.e., prominent delusions and hallucinations) that has endured for approximately 3 years. As part of her neurobehavioral work-up, a SPECT scan revealed right frontal and left anterior temporal-lobe hypoperfusion. Serial neuropsychological evaluations obtained 2 years apart demonstrated a steady decline on tests of executive control (monitoring, allocation of attention, perseveration) and visuospatial abilities, whereas performance in other areas of cognitive functioning have remained steady and in the normal range for the patient's age. Over this same period of time, serial EEG, MRI, and neurology examinations have been within normal limits. Thus, there was little evidence with which to diagnose dementia. It is suggested that concomitant impairment in executive control, coupled with a degraded capacity to process perceptual information, can give rise to enduring psychotic behavior."}
{"id": "8858185", "title": "Asymmetric cortical degeneration syndromes.", "content": "Asymmetric cortical degeneration syndromes. Asymmetric cortical degeneration syndromes (aphasic, perceptual-motor, frontal lobe and bitemporal categories) encompass the majority of atypical cortical dementia patterns. New insights suggest the group is genetically heterogeneous. Debate continues over whether individual syndromes are points along a continuum or distinct nosologic entities."}
{"id": "8857162", "title": "[Clinical feature of dementia of the Alzheimer type].", "content": "[Clinical feature of dementia of the Alzheimer type]. Dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) is a disorder in the elderly, showing progressive decline of memory and various cognitive functions. There is no known effective treatment for DAT. Symptoms appear gradually and the course is steadily progressive. Neuropathologically, limbic and posterior association cortices of the cerebrum are preferentially affected. Abundant neuritic plaque, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss are detected in these areas. DAT is one of major disorders among senile dementia, frequent next to vascular dementia, in the Japanese. According to the age at onset, DAT has been classified into Alzheimer's disease (age at onset < or = 65) and senile dementia of Alzheimer type (age at onset >65). However, the rate of progression and clinical severity differ in these two groups, indicating that etiology of DAT is heterogeneous [correction of heterogenous]. Clinical diagnosis of DAT is mostly based on symptoms, mode of progression, and neuropsychiatric evaluation. DSM-IV has been recommended as a standard criteria. X-ray CT or MR imaging study can estimate atrophic alteration of DAT brain, and is of value in the differential diagnosis. In addition, PET or SPECT are useful tools for evaluating functional deficits of the cerebral cortex, since such abnormalities can be detected even from an early stage. Recent molecular genetic studies have disclosed that genetic background of DAT is heterogeneous [correction of heterogenous]. Not only mutation in a causative gene but also certain predisposing genes play roles in generating DAT pathology. However, it is still uncertain whether such genetic factors are correlated with the divergence of DAT phenotype."}
{"id": "8845700", "title": "Apathy and loss of insight in Alzheimer's disease: a SPECT imaging study.", "content": "Apathy and loss of insight in Alzheimer's disease: a SPECT imaging study. Apathy and loss of insight as correlates of behavior in Alzheimer's disease (AD) were studied in 40 patients by using clinical scales and cerebral blood flow measurements from SPECT imaging. Apathy was significantly correlated with decreased right temporoparietal perfusion and problem behaviors. Loss of insight was significantly correlated with decreased right temporo-occipital perfusion and impairment in daily functioning. Dementia severity as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was a poor predictor of behavioral problems or daily functioning. These data suggest that global measures of cognitive ability, which are weighted toward measuring left hemisphere function, are less important as indicators of management problems in AD than are measures of right hemisphere function such as motivation and insight."}
{"id": "8845698", "title": "Quantified electroencephalographic correlates of relative frontal or parietal hypoperfusion in dementia.", "content": "Quantified electroencephalographic correlates of relative frontal or parietal hypoperfusion in dementia. The authors examined the presence of specific quantified electroencephalographic (qEEG) changes in dementia patients with relatively lower frontal or parietal blood perfusion as demonstrated by SPECT. Over all brain regions, patients with relatively lower parietal perfusion showed significantly higher theta relative power than demented patients with relatively lower frontal perfusion or normal control subjects. Dementia patients with relatively lower frontal perfusion showed no differences from age-comparable normal control subjects in qEEG variables. These findings 1) suggest that usefulness of qEEG for the diagnosis of dementia is restricted to a subgroup of patients with the typical SPECT pattern of parietal blood hypoperfusion and 2) demonstrate that the qEEG changes typical of dementia are not related to perfusion deficits in frontal brain areas."}
{"id": "8843120", "title": "Pattern of cerebral blood flow and cognition in patients undergoing chronic haemodialysis treatment.", "content": "Pattern of cerebral blood flow and cognition in patients undergoing chronic haemodialysis treatment. We studied 20 patients aged 46-69 years (mean 57 years) undergoing long-term haemodialysis (HD) and 20 age- and sex-matched controls with single photon emission tomography (SPET) and 99Tcm-hexamethyl-propyleneamine-oxime to look for regional abnormalities in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and their relation to cognitive dysfunction. Global hemispheric tracer uptake relative to the cerebellum was similar in both groups, but regional over cerebellar activity was significantly reduced in the frontal cortex (85.9 +/- 5.1 vs 90.4 +/- 5.3; P = 0.01) and thalamus (99.2 +/- 8.8 vs 104.9 +/- 8.4; P = 0.05) of the HD patients. Normalization to whole-brain activity also showed the frontal cortex to be hypoactive in the HD patients, while tracer uptake was increased occipitally. These regional differences were not explained by the presence of atrophy or cerebrovascular damage seen on brain magnetic resonance imaging. The HD patients scored significantly worse on cognitive tests such as the Mini Mental State Examination (23 +/- 4 vs 28 +/- 1; P < 0.001) and Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (114 +/- 24 vs 143 +/- 1; P < 0.001). Regional activity ratios did not correlate with cognitive test scores, however. Our results indicate a disturbed pattern of CBF in HD patients, although regional SPET abnormalities did not correspond to the severity of cognitive dysfunction."}
{"id": "8841965", "title": "Vascular dementia: perfusional and metabolic disturbances and effects of therapy.", "content": "Vascular dementia: perfusional and metabolic disturbances and effects of therapy. Positron emission tomography (PET) has elucidated basic pathophysiological mechanism that produce the cognitive decline in vascular dementia (VD). The typical pattern of glucose metabolism seen in VD with scattered areas of focal cortical and subcortical hypometabolism differs from that in AD with marked hypometabolism affecting the association areas. The total volume of metabolically inactive tissue is significantly related to severity of dementia. Rather than the quantity of tissue destruction, the critical effect may be the quantity of cortical hypometabolism caused by subcortically induced disconnection. Studies with HMPAO SPECT have shown focal deficits in VD and AD patients that are comparable to those seen with FDG PET. In mildly demented patients performance for the classification AD versus VD is much better by PET because it might be more sensitive for imaging small functional pathological changes. A longitudinal analysis of rCMRGl in VD showed that the progression of dementia can be delayed by the adenosine uptake blocker propentofylline and that neuropsychological and metabolic changes are closely related."}
{"id": "8841963", "title": "Functional imaging techniques in the diagnosis of non-Alzheimer dementias.", "content": "Functional imaging techniques in the diagnosis of non-Alzheimer dementias. Functional imaging (positron emission tomography -- PET, single photon emission tomography -- SPECT, magnetic resonance spectroscopy -- MRS) enables regional cerebral function to be assessed in vivo in dementias. There are three basic approaches to examining the patterns of cerebral function associated with specific disorders: First, abnormalities in resting levels of regional cerebral metabolism and blood flow can be examined. Second, patients can be asked to perform cognitive tasks with a view to demonstrating aberrations in their pattern of cerebral activation. Third, resting dysfunction of brain pharmacology can be revealed. The bulk of the research on non-Alzheimer dementias has been performed with PET and SPECT and this review will concentrate on these two modalities."}
{"id": "8841960", "title": "Frontal lobe dementia and motor neuron disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe dementia and motor neuron disease. Frontal lobe dementia (FLD) (syn. frontotemporal dementia and dementia of frontal type) is a generic term that describes a clinical syndrome in which patients manifest a profound breakdown in personality and social conduct, together with adynamic spontaneous speech, culminating in mutism. This pattern of cognitive impairment implicates bilateral frontal lobe dysfunction, an assumption supported by functional neuroimaging findings of anterior cerebral abnormality. Patients with FLD can go on to develop motor neuron disease (FLD-MND), although the clinical features of MND may accompany or occasionally precede the onset of dementia. The emergence of MND is responsible for death within 3 years of onset. Frontotemporal lobar pathology in FLD-MND is characterized by loss of large cortical neurons, spongiform change and mild astrocytic gliosis. Ubiquitinated (but not tau-positive) inclusions are present within the frontal cortex. There is severe nigral cell loss (without Lewy bodies), and marked hypoglossal and spinal motor neuron degeneration, together with ubiquitinated (but not tau-positive) inclusions within the spinal neurons. Some authors suggest that FLD-MND is a separate disease entity, whereas others suggest it represents an interface between FLD and \"classic\" (non-dementing) motor neuron disease (CMND). An association with CMND is supported by findings in these patients of failure in tasks sensitive to \"frontal lobe\" dysfunction, and patterns of functional neuroimaging abnormality which are identical in distribution, but less severe than those encountered in FLD-MND. However, the nosological status of FLD-MND remains enigmatic in the absence of defined pathological and molecular markers."}
{"id": "8819714", "title": "[Benzodiazepine receptor and cerebral blood flow in early Alzheimer's disease--SPECT study using 123I-iomazenil and 123I-IMP].", "content": "[Benzodiazepine receptor and cerebral blood flow in early Alzheimer's disease--SPECT study using 123I-iomazenil and 123I-IMP]. This study was designed to investigate benzodiazepine receptors (BZR) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in patients with early Alzheimer's disease. Imaging of BZR and measurement of CBF were performed by SPECT using 123I-Iomazenil (IMZ) and 123I-IMP respectively, in seven patients with early Alzheimer's disease and five patients with unilateral left cerebral infarction as controls. The values for the normal cerebral hemisphere (ratio to the contralateral cerebellum) in patients with cerebral infarction were adopted as control values. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, the CBF (ratio to cerebellum) decreased significantly in the frontal cortex and the parietal cortex compared with the control values. There was no significant difference in late IMZ SPECT counts (ratio to cerebellum) and washout (the ratio of late-to-early IMZ SPECT counts) between patients with Alzheimer's disease and the controls. However, the late IMZ SPECT counts and washout decreased in one patient with moderate dementia. There was a significant correlation between the severity of dementia and the late IMZ SPECT counts in the temporal cortex and the parietal cortex. These results suggest that benzodiazepine binding sites are relatively well preserved in patients with early Alzheimer's disease, and reduction of the CBF is caused by neuronal dysfunction rather than by neuronal loss. IMZ SPECT study is useful and necessary for clarifying the pathophysiological state in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "8814717", "title": "18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET and 99mTc-bicisate-SPECT in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET and 99mTc-bicisate-SPECT in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. In a patient with the occipitoparietal form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) (Heidenhain type) positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrated decreased glucose utilization in the occipital lobes and adjacent cortical regions. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-bicisate showed a \"coupled\" decrease in blood flow in identical cortical areas in this patient. In contrast, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was normal. In the early stage of CJD, when still no major morphological abnormalities can be observed, functional imaging is useful for differential diagnosis, particularly to exclude other causes of dementia or pathological EEG patterns."}
{"id": "8803445", "title": "[Noninvasive regional cerebral blood flow measurements at pre- and post-acetazolamide test using 99mTc-ECD].", "content": "[Noninvasive regional cerebral blood flow measurements at pre- and post-acetazolamide test using 99mTc-ECD]. A technique for serial noninvasive cerebral blood flow measurements at pre- and post-acetazolamide (Diamox) test was newly developed using 99mTc-ECD without blood sampling. Baseline mean cerebral blood flow (mCBF) was measured from graphical analysis of time activity curves for brain and aortic arch obtained from radionuclide angiography by injection of 370-555 MBq 99mTc-ECD. The first SPECT study was performed immediately after intravenous administration of 1 g of Diamox, then baseline regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was calculated using Lassen's correction algorithm. Immediately after the stop of the first SPECT study, additional 555-740 MBq of 99mTc-ECD was administered, thereafter the second SPECT study was started. Post-Diamox SPECT images were obtained by subtraction of the first baseline images from the second images. Using Lassen's algorithm, post-Diamox mCBF was estimated from the baseline mCBF, the baseline mean SPECT counts, and post-Diamox mean SPECT counts corrected for administered dose and imaging time. Post-Diamox rCBF was obtained from the post-Diamox mCBF and the post-Diamox mean SPECT counts using Lassen's algorithm. Coefficient variation was shown 2.7% and 3.5%: mCBF and rCBF, respectively in test-retest results in six patients without Diamox administration. Nine demented patients without vascular disorders showed significant mCBF increase of 35.7% on the average by post-Diamox. In conclusion, this simplified method is practically useful for measuring CBF at pre- and post-Diamox test within short period of time without any blood sample."}
{"id": "8800620", "title": "Generation effect in short-term verbal and visuospatial memory: comparisons between dementia of Alzheimer type and dementia of frontal lobe type.", "content": "Generation effect in short-term verbal and visuospatial memory: comparisons between dementia of Alzheimer type and dementia of frontal lobe type. Memory deficit is the predominant presenting symptom in dementia. To compare short-term memory (STM) deficit in early dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) vs frontal lobe type (DFT), and determine the residual memory capacity for stimulation, the generation effect (the memory advantage of items generated rather than read) was tested on verbal and visuospatial STM in patients with DAT (n = 10), DFT (n = 9) and in age-matched normal controls (n = 12). The generation effect enhanced performance in all groups. However, the profile of STM deficit differed in the two dementias: verbal and visuospatial memory were both decreased in DAT vs verbal memory only in DFT. These results provide a further criterion for differentiating between DAT and DFT, and show that memory performance can be enhanced in early dementia using techniques such as the generation effect."}
{"id": "8797529", "title": "In vivo mapping of cholinergic terminals in normal aging, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease.", "content": "In vivo mapping of cholinergic terminals in normal aging, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. To map presynaptic cholinergic terminal densities in normal aging (n = 36), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 22), and Parkinson's disease (PD) (n = 15), we performed single-photon emission computed tomography using [123I]iodobenzovesamicol (IBVM), an in vivo marker of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. We used coregistered positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose for metabolic assessment and coregistered magnetic resonance imaging for atrophy assessment. In controls (age, 22-91 years), cortical IBVM binding declined only 3.7% per decade. In AD, cortical binding correlated inversely with dementia severity. In mild dementia, binding differed according to age of onset, but metabolism did not. With an onset age of less than 65 years, binding was reduced severely throughout the entire cerebral cortex and hippocampus (about 30%), but with an onset age of 65 years or more, binding reductions were restricted to temporal cortex and hippocampus. In PD without dementia, binding was reduced only in parietal and occipital cortex, but demented PD subjects had extensive cortical binding decreases similar to early-onset AD. We conclude that cholinergic neuron integrity can be monitored in living AD and PD patients, and that it is not so devastated in vivo as suggested by postmortem choline acetyltransferase activity (50-80%)."}
{"id": "8781138", "title": "Vascular dementia of Binswanger's type: clinical, neuroradiological and 99mTc-HMPAO SPET study.", "content": "Vascular dementia of Binswanger's type: clinical, neuroradiological and 99mTc-HMPAO SPET study. In 24 patients with vascular dementia of Binswanger's type (VDBT) and 14 age-matched neurologically normal volunteers, we investigated the relationship between clinical features, white matter lesions (leuco-araiosis) and cerebral atrophy on computed tomographic (CT) scan, and regional cerebral blood flow. All subjects underwent the Mini-Mental State Examination of Taiwan, version 1 (MMSE-T1), for assessing the severity of cognitive impairment. The patients were subdivided into two groups, one with mild to moderate (group I, MMSE-T1 scores: 11-24, n=11), and the other with severe dementia (group II, MMSE-T1 scores: below 10, n=13). White matter degeneration was evaluated with densitometric methods. Loss of brain parenchyma was estimated with seven linear measurements (Evan's ratio, third ventricle ratio, width of temporal horn tip, anterior-posterior length of temporal horn, anterior-posterior length of Sylvian fissure and width of frontal interhemispheric fissure) by CT scans. Regional cerebral blood flow was determined with technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) single-photon emission tomography (SPET). In neuroimaging studies, subcortical leuco-araiosis was localized at the frontal region in group I patients and scattered diffusely in group II patients. 99mTc-HMPAO SPET analysis revealed reduction of regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobe in group I patients and widespread reduction of regional cerebral blood flow in group II patients. A correlation between frontal leuco-araiosis and perfusion defect of the frontal pole was demonstrated in group I patients, showing findings typical of subcortical dementia. There was no difference in frontal atrophic measurements between group I patients and controls. Ratios of volumes of lost brain parenchyma and leuco-araiosis were significantly higher in group II patients than in the age-matched controls, corresponding to a diffuse cerebral perfusion defect. These results suggest that patients with VDBT have early frontal lobe involvement with posterior progression. Patients with mild VDBT are more likely to show reduction of frontal cerebral blood flow and leuco-araiosis, while those with severe VDBT are more likely to have diffuse leuco-araiosis, cerebral hypoperfusion and brain atrophy."}
{"id": "8771594", "title": "Imaging in acquired immune deficiency syndrome dementia complex (AIDS dementia complex): a review.", "content": "Imaging in acquired immune deficiency syndrome dementia complex (AIDS dementia complex): a review. 1. Since 1986, the AIDS dementia complex has been recognized increasingly as a significant sequela of HIV infection. Though the pathogenesis remains poorly characterized and the diagnosis is one of exclusion, research utilizing various imaging techniques has resulted in greater understanding of the progressive character of ADC. 2. CT and MR studies have revealed general atrophy, atrophy of the basal ganglia, and white matter lesions that appear to increase in severity with progression of HIV infection. 3. CT and MR are relatively insensitive to the presence of clinical dementia, neurological signs, or positive findings on neuropsychological tests. In addition, they show poor correlation with histopathologic findings. 4. PET, SPECT, and MRS show the greatest sensitivity to changes wrought by primary HIV infection of the CNS and thus the greatest potential for early diagnosis of ADC. 5. PET, SPECT, and MRS show involvement of the basal ganglia, bloodflow abnormalities, and metabolite disturbances in HIV-seropositive subjects without findings on examination or neuropsychological tests."}
{"id": "8766453", "title": "[Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome clinical and neuromorphofunctional diagnosis: a case report].", "content": "[Gerstmann-Straussler syndrome clinical and neuromorphofunctional diagnosis: a case report]. The Syndrome of Gerstmann-Straussler is a constellation of typical symptoms that affects the parietotemporal crossroad and also involves the contiguous parts of the occipital lobe of the dominant hemisphere. Is a family ailment that starts with an espinocerebellar ataxy followed by dementia. Diagnosis options such as EEG, TC, RM and brain SPECT-99mTc-HMPAO have been carried out in an adult with Gerstmann Syndrome. The brain SPECT disclosed a disminution of the flow at the parietotemporooccipital areas of both hemispheres. The results revealed a clinical and a neuromorphofunctional correlation. Brain SPECT is a complementary test to the structural neuroradiological examinations, such as TC and RM, that occasionally is useful not only to clarify but also to widen the information that these offer."}
{"id": "8753675", "title": "Changes in local cerebral blood flow by neuroactivation and vasoactivation in patients with impaired cognitive function.", "content": "Changes in local cerebral blood flow by neuroactivation and vasoactivation in patients with impaired cognitive function. Imaging of local cerebral blood flow (lCBF) may serve as an important supplementary tool in the aetiological assessment of dementias. In early or preclinical disease, however, there are less characteristic changes in lCBF. In the present study it was investigated whether vasoactivation or neuroactivation may produce more pronounced local lCBF deficits. Local CBF was investigated by using technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime and single-photon emission tomography (SPET) in 80 patients (50 with mild cognitive impairment and 30 with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT), all without evidence of cerebrovascular disease) at rest (baseline) and during activation. In 31 studies patients underwent vasomotor activation with acetazolamide, while 62 studies were performed under cognitive challenge (neuroactivation by labyrinth task). Cortical activity relative to that of cerebellum increased significantly in a right temporal region and tended to increase in other cortical regions upon vasoactivation. In contrast, neuroactivation reduced cortical activity relative to that of cerebellum in several left and right temporal and in left parietal regions. Visual classification of SPET images of patients with probable DAT by three observers resulted in a reduction of the number of definitely abnormal patterns from 9/12 to 4/12 by vasoactivation and an increase from 10/18 to 15/18 by neuroactivation. Correspondingly, abnormal ratings in patients with mild cognitive dysfunction were reduced from 7/19 to 5/19 by vasoactivation and were increased from 12/21 to 18/21 by neuroactivation. In conclusion, vasoactivation does not enhance local relative perfusion deficits in patients with cognitive impairment of non-vascular aetiology, whereas neuroactivation by labyrinth task produces more pronounced local flow differences and enhances abnormal patterns in lCBF imaging."}
{"id": "8752524", "title": "[Image analysis in patients with dementia].", "content": "[Image analysis in patients with dementia]. There are a number of noninvasive imaging methods in patients with dementia, including X-ray CT, MRI, SPECT and PET. Anatomical imaging using CT and MRI is often used for assessing severity of brain atrophy, which is commonly seen in patients with dementia. However, the early detection of brain abnormalities seem to be limited with these methods. Brain functional studies using radionuclide techniques have been recently developed with introduction of a variety of new radiopharmaceuticals. Among them, brain perfusion SPECT which is clinically available in most of the hospitals, is considered as a powerful means for accurate diagnosis and assessment of severity of dementia. Hypoperfusion is commonly seen in bilateral parieto-temporal cortex (association cortex) in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Frontal hypoperfusion is seen in the advanced cases of Alzheimer's disease. This disease is easily differentiated with multi-infarct dementia where multiple asymmetrical hypoperfusion is seen in the brain cortex on SPECT. More importantly, such functional abnormality is often observed in patients with normal findings in CT or MRI, indicating clinical value of brain perfusion SPECT for early detection of Alzheimer's disease. Bilateral hypoperfusion is noted in the frontal cortex in patients with Pick disease. Recently biochemical imaging can be obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) using various physiological tracers labeled with C-11, N-13, O-15, and F-18. Cerebral perfusion, metabolism and receptor functions can be quantitatively measured in vivo. The PET study nicely demonstrated that hypometabolism in bilateral parieto-temporal cortex in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, glucose metabolism is considered to be further suppressed compared to perfusion, indicating suppression of brain synaptic function in this disease. In conclusion, brain functional imaging using SPECT and PET is useful for the detection and evaluation of a variety of dementia."}
{"id": "8750558", "title": "Neuropsychology of memory and SPECT in the diagnosis and staging of dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Neuropsychology of memory and SPECT in the diagnosis and staging of dementia of Alzheimer type. We studied the role of neuropsychology and SPECT imaging in the diagnosis and staging of dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) in 33 patients with mild disease and 30 matched controls. Working, episodic, semantic and remote memory were assessed. For diagnosis, it was determined by logistic regression analysis that one of the memory tests (delayed verbal recall of the Doors and People Test) could correctly classify subjects as DAT or controls in 97% of cases. For staging, stepwise regression analysis using five of the memory tests could predict 70% of the variance in Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores. The measures most useful for staging were tests of immediate recall, and tests of working, semantic and autobiographical memory. In a separate experiment, SPECT imaging on 31 of the above 33 patients and 24 different controls was used to address the issue of diagnosis and staging. 99Tc-HMPAO SPECT scans were analysed quantitatively to obtain measures of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Logistic regression analysis showed that three of the SPECT regions of interest (left posterior temporal, right high frontal and right posterior temporal) could correctly classify subjects in 75% of cases. Of note was the fact that 39% of the DAT patients had normal SPECT scans. SPECT data were of limited use in modelling disease severity; only 38% of the variance in MMSE scores could be predicted from SPECT data. In addition, we found that the pattern of rCBF in DAT was much more heterogeneous than previously described."}
{"id": "8741148", "title": "Unilateral spatial neglect in Alzheimer's disease. A line bisection study.", "content": "Unilateral spatial neglect in Alzheimer's disease. A line bisection study. Neuropsychological studies on Alzheimer's disease (AD) have rarely mentioned about unilateral spatial neglect in spite of widespread use of visuospatial tasks. We reported a 62-year-old woman with probable AD who showed moderate dementia with left unilateral spatial neglect and relatively preserved language function. An extensive line bisection study with either hand confirmed her having left unilateral spatial neglect. Single photon emission computed tomography revealed relative hypoperfusion in the right temporal and parietal regions. AD patients with disproportionate right hemisphere dysfunction may exhibit left unilateral spatial neglect if tested adequately in the stage of mild to moderate dementia. We consider that application of the line bisection test to AD patients contributes to estimation of their right hemisphere function."}
{"id": "8740989", "title": "Clinical subgroups of the Alzheimer syndrome.", "content": "Clinical subgroups of the Alzheimer syndrome. During the last decade, senile dementia and the presenile disease that was named after Alois Alzheimer have been considered a single entity called Alzheimer's disease (AD). This same decade has witnessed the development of many diagnostic tools, such as CT, MRI, and SPECT imaging, that have made possible the systematic analysis of symptoms of brain disorders. With the aid of these sophisticated techniques, it is possible to divide the disorder into clinically relevant subgroups, one of which corresponds to the disease first described by Alzheimer. The disease exists in sporadic and familial forms, and in subgroups of these two basic types. Because the heterogeneity of AD is incontestable, it is time to reconsider the current use of the term \"Alzheimer's disease.\" Because it labels different subgroups whose characteristics are often markedly different, the term \"Alzheimer syndrome\" appears to be more appropriate."}
{"id": "8740630", "title": "Dementia of the frontal lobe type: report of the neuroimaging and neuropsychological results of a case study.", "content": "Dementia of the frontal lobe type: report of the neuroimaging and neuropsychological results of a case study. We report the behavioural abnormalities, neuroimaging, and neuropsychological results of a 62-year-old patient, i.p., who shows a clinical profile that fulfils all characteristics of dementia of frontal lobe type. The patient has been followed up over 5 years with psychometric testing. Comparing her cognitive profiles across examinations, her performance was substantially unchanged apart from behavioural disturbances and performance on frontal tasks which showed a progressive worsening. MRI finding evidenced marked ventricular enlargement, prevalent frontal atrophy and hypertrophy of the genus of corpus callosum. SPECT investigation showed a considerable reduction of cerebral blood flow in the mesial parts of the frontal lobes, in the lateral surface of the right fronto-parietal lobe, and hypo-perfusion in the right thalamic area. The results are discussed with reference to the features (clinical and neuropsychological) which distinguish different profiles of dementia."}
{"id": "8730668", "title": "Optimization of factors affecting the state of normality of a medical image.", "content": "Optimization of factors affecting the state of normality of a medical image. The purpose of this paper is to examine the first stage of the diagnostic process in medical imaging, namely determination of the state of normality, and to attempt to optimize factors contributing to this stage. An image of a given type is defined as abnormal if it does not belong to the appropriate class of normal images. All images must be pre-processed involving image registration and normalization to align and scale the images with respect to each other. Normal ranges may be determined for each voxel (or other appropriate region) from a representative normal sample using univariate analysis, obtaining mean and standard deviation images, or multivariate analysis, which accounts also for normal patterns of variation (represented as principal components). For a new image, the variation from normality (in SDs) for each region may be determined. Since the spatial distribution of this parameter is thought to be relevant, connectivity of abnormal voxels was considered as a possible factor. For the purposes of this study, SPECT images indicating regional cerebral blood flow were used. Images from 50 normal subjects formed the normal sample. A further 40 normal subjects and 200 patients referred with suspected dementia were then analyzed using the normal ranges. ROC analysis, using number of SDs as a variable threshold, was used to optimize the factors. Normalization to global values followed by multivariate analysis using four or five principal components provided optimal discrimination. Connectivity of voxels emerged as an important factor, around 10 connected voxels being optimal for this study."}
{"id": "8721108", "title": "[Phase 2 clinical study of 123I-iomazenil in various cerebral diseases: part 2--clinical evaluation of central-type benzodiazepine receptor imaging with 123I-iomazenil SPECT].", "content": "[Phase 2 clinical study of 123I-iomazenil in various cerebral diseases: part 2--clinical evaluation of central-type benzodiazepine receptor imaging with 123I-iomazenil SPECT]. A phase 2 clinical study of 123I-iomazenil (IMZ) was performed to evaluate its clinical usefulness as central-type benzodiazepine receptor imaging agent in 81 cases with epilepsy, 82 cases with cerebrovascular diseases (CVD), 35 cases with degenerative disorders and 14 cases with mental disorders. In epilepsy, IMZ SPECT images for detection of epileptic foci showed relatively high specificity compared with EEG recording in not only interictal but also ictal state, in spite of the fact that IMZ SPECT images was performed during interictally. It was surmised that IMZ SPECT provides valuable clinical information for detection of epileptic foci which are hard to be diagnosed by EEG. The frequency of abnormal findings by IMZ late images was higher than that by interictal blood flow images and comparable to that by ictal blood flow images. In patients with CVD, different observations were obtained between IMZ late images and blood flow images; for example, in regions of hemodynamic cerebral ischemia, postischemic reperfusion and other pathological perfusion, IMZ late images seemed to reflect the degree of cortical neuronal loss. In patients with degenerative disorders, the binding potential (calculated by a simple quantitative method for IMZ) and other parameters correlated with the dementia score. While the number of examined cases with mental disorders was limited, the frequency of abnormal findings with IMZ imaging was higher than that with morphological imaging."}
{"id": "8708683", "title": "Brain atrophy in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Brain atrophy in frontotemporal dementia. To evaluate the pattern of regional brain atrophy in patients with frontotemporal dementia by comparing it with that in patients with Alzheimer's disease and normal controls. Fourteen patients with frontotemporal dementia, 13 with moderate, and 33 with mild Alzheimer's disease, and 31 controls were studied. Atrophy was evaluated with linear measures in the anterior brain, medial temporal lobe, and hippocampal formation regions using MRI. Patients with frontotemporal dementia had greater atrophy in the anterior brain regions than patients with Alzheimer's disease or controls. Atrophy of the hippocampal formation, which best discriminates Alzheimer's disease from controls, was present also in patients with frontotemporal dementia. By contrast, atrophy of the medial temporal lobe, which is also present in Alzheimer's disease, was absent in frontotemporal dementia. A pattern of atrophy in the frontal lobes and hippocampal formation with sparing of the medial temporal lobe might be distinctive of frontotemporal dementia. Hippocampal involvement might not be specific for Alzheimer's disease and specific patterns of atrophy might be distinctive of some forms of degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "8707476", "title": "Response to tacrine in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type: cerebral perfusion change is related to change in mental status.", "content": "Response to tacrine in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type: cerebral perfusion change is related to change in mental status. We evaluated change in cerebral hypoperfusion by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of dementia Alzheimer's type (DAT) before and after treatment with Tacrine. Based on clinical evaluation of the SPECT scans before and after treatment, two groups of patients were identified. One (N = 5) experienced a relative decrease in cerebral perfusion and a decrease in mini-mental status examination (MMSE) scores across the treatment interval and was labeled \"non-responders\". A second group consisting of 7 patients was judged as showing an increase in cerebral perfusion at follow-up compared to baseline and an increase in MMSE scores. These were termed \"responders\". The group difference in MMSE score change was significant (Fisher's exact test: p < 0.008). Sensitivity (0.85) and specificity (1.0) and Receiver Operating Characteristic values (discriminability or d' = 3.12 and bias or beta = 4.6) indicated that direction of change in cerebral perfusion was a reasonable indicator of direction of change in MMSE scores. These results suggest that SPECT determined changes in cerebral perfusion may be useful in identification of DAT patients who are more likely to respond to centrally active agents such as tacrine."}
{"id": "8705881", "title": "Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: clinical analysis of eight cases.", "content": "Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: clinical analysis of eight cases. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) or spongiform encephalopathy in humans, is a rare, rapidly progressive and fatal disorder of the central nervous system. Since clinical diagnosis is challenging, this retrospective investigation was performed. Eight cases who had been diagnosed as CJD from 1987 to 1995 were reviewed thoroughly, with a resulting clinical diagnosis of CJD. Two cases were proved by brain biopsy. Four males and four females were included; their ages were 53 to 81 years with a mean of 66 years. The mean illness duration of the six patients who died was six and a half months. Clinical findings were variable and included dementia, aphasia, ataxic gait, pyramidal, extrapyramidal, myoclonus and visual problems. For diagnosis of CJD, clinical suspicion is very important. Electroencephalogram (EEG) remains the most helpful laboratory diagnostic tool; serial recordings are necessary if the initial EEG finding is nonspecific. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) may be helpful for premorten diagnosis of CJD, but sensitivity and specificity need further investigation. Brain biopsy seemed to be unnecessary if the clinical, EEG and SPECT findings are typical."}
{"id": "8697677", "title": "The clinical utility of visual evaluation of scintigraphic perfusion patterns for Alzheimer's disease using I-123 IMP SPECT.", "content": "The clinical utility of visual evaluation of scintigraphic perfusion patterns for Alzheimer's disease using I-123 IMP SPECT. The authors examined the role of SPECT perfusion pattern in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) using I-123 IMP. They studied 93 patients who had memory and cognitive disorders, including 42 patients with a diagnosis of probable AD, classifying SPECT images into determined perfusion patterns. The probability of AD was 54% with bilateral temporal and/or parietal defects, 69% with bilateral temporoparietal defects with additional defects, 17% with no defects, and 11% with frontal defects only. The sensitivity of bilateral temporoparietal perfusion defects for AD was 95.2%, whereas the specificity was 56.9%. In the absence of bilateral temporal and/or parietal defects on visual evaluation of SPECT, the diagnosis of AD was unlikely, although it is not pathognomonic for AD, because this sign would be seen in various neuropsychiatric diseases causing memory and cognitive impairments. Visual evaluation of SPECT is of value in the diagnosis of AD among patients with dementia."}
{"id": "8667666", "title": "[Progressive dementia in a 76-year-old man].", "content": "[Progressive dementia in a 76-year-old man]."}
{"id": "8662117", "title": "A simple method for the quantification of benzodiazepine receptors using iodine-123 iomazenil and single-photon emission tomography.", "content": "A simple method for the quantification of benzodiazepine receptors using iodine-123 iomazenil and single-photon emission tomography. Iodine-123 iomazenil (Iomazenil) is a ligand for central type benzodiazepine receptors that is suitable for single-photon emission tomography (SPET). The purpose of this study was to develop a simple method for the quantification of its binding potential (BP). The method is based on a two-compartment model (K1, influx rate constant; k2', efflux rate constant; VT' (=K1/k2'), the total distribution volumes relative to the total arterial tracer concentration), and requires two SPET scans and one blood sampling. For a given input function, the radioactivity ratio of the early to delayed scans can be considered to tabulate as a function of k2', and a table look-up procedure provides the corresponding k2' value, from which K1 and VT' values are then calculated. The arterial input function is obtained by calibration of the standard input function by the single blood sampling. SPET studies were performed on 14 patients with cerebrovascular diseases, dementia or brain tumours (mean age+/-SD, 56.0+/-12.2). None of the patients had any heart, renal or liver disease. A dynamic SPET scan was performed following intravenous bolus injection of Iomazenil. A static SPET scan was performed at 180 min after injection. Frequent blood sampling from the brachial artery was performed on all subjects for determination of the arterial input function. Two-compartment model analysis was validated for calculation of the VT' value of Iomazenil. Good correlations were observed between VT' values calculated by three-compartment model analysis and those calculated by the present method, in which the scan time combinations (early scan/delayed scan) used were 15/180 min, 30/180 min or 45/180 min (all combinations: r=0.92), supporting the validity of this method. The present method is simple and applicable for clinical use."}
{"id": "8656584", "title": "[Cerebral hemodynamics in patients with dementia].", "content": "[Cerebral hemodynamics in patients with dementia]. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) at rest was measured by 123I-IMP SPECT and the standing test was conducted by 99mTc-HMPAO SEPCT in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) and vascular dementia (VD) in order to evaluate cerebral autoregulation and to consider the diagnostic significance of this determination and test. CBF at rest decreased significantly in all regions in the DAT and VD groups compared to the control groups (healthy aged persons, group C). The value of mean CBF also decreased significantly in the DAT (40.1 micromilligrams/100 g/min) and VD groups (41.3) as compared to group C (51.0). In the DAT groups, the CBF was significantly lower in the parietal region compared to VD groups, and CBF and Hasegawa's dementia score showed a positive correlation in the temporal and parietal regions. Decreases in blood pressure upon standing were about 10 mmHg in all three groups, but the decrease rate in mean CBF was significantly greater in the VD groups (20.2%) than in the C (5.0%) and DAT groups (4.0%). The dysautoregulation index (D.I. delta; % CBF mmHg), used as a measurement of cerebral autoregulation, was significantly higher in the VD groups (1.7) than in the C(0.5) and DAT groups (0.3). This index made it possible to make differential diagnosis in some patients in whom it was impossible using CBF at rest, probably due to impaired cerebral autoregulation and atherosclerotic changes in VD patients. Our findings suggest that D.I. provides information on the condition of patients that cannot be obtained with CBF at rest and assists in differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "8648326", "title": "Natural history of progressive supranuclear palsy (Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome) and clinical predictors of survival: a clinicopathological study.", "content": "Natural history of progressive supranuclear palsy (Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome) and clinical predictors of survival: a clinicopathological study. OBJECTIVE--To analyse the natural history of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP or Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome) and clinical predictors of survival in 24 patients with PSP confirmed by necropsy, who fulfilled the NINDS criteria for a neuropathological diagnosis of typical PSP. METHODS--Patients were selected from the research and clinical files of seven medical centres involving tertiary centres of Austria, England, France, and the United States. Clinical features were analysed in detail. The patients' mean age at onset of PSP was 63 (range 45-73) years. RESULTS--The most frequent clinical features (occurring in at least 75% of the patients) were early postural instability and falls, vertical supranuclear palsy, akinetic-rigid predominant parkinsonian disorder characterised by symmetric bradykinesia and axial rigidity unrelieved by levodopa, pseudobulbar palsy, and frontal release signs. Occasionally, segmental dystonia or myoclonus were described, but neither aphasia nor alien limb syndrome was reported. Fractures occurred in 25% of the patients but were unrelated to the severity of the gait or to the presence of falls. Median survival time was 5.6 (range 2-16.6) years. Onset of falls during the first year, early dysphagia, and incontinence predicted a shorter survival time. Age at onset, sex, early onset of dementia, vertical supranuclear palsy, or axial rigidity had no effect on prognosis of survival. Pneumonia was the most common immediate cause of death. PSP was most often clinically misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease. Errors in diagnosis suggest that PSP is underdiagnosed. CONCLUSION--Progressive onset of early postural instability with falls or supranuclear vertical palsy in the fifth decade, should suggest the diagnosis of PSP. Onset of falls during the first year are emphasised, as they could lead to an early diagnosis and influence the prognosis of patients with PSP. Whether appropriate treatment of the dysphagia could prolong the survival of PSP patients needs to be explored."}
{"id": "8624103", "title": "Functional imaging patterns in Alzheimer's disease. Relationships to neurobiology.", "content": "Functional imaging patterns in Alzheimer's disease. Relationships to neurobiology. Brain imaging with functional techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have been widely applied to the study of dementia. While the pattern of temporal and parietal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion have often been suggested to be of diagnostic utility in ascertaining that a dementia is due to Alzheimer's disease (AD), the exact sensitivity and specificity of this pattern in clinically important situations is unclear. These imaging findings have been of considerable interest, however, in describing the regional patterns of predilection in the disease. Evidence supports the contention that the earliest sites of functional impairment in AD are in the temporal lobes. Surprisingly, however, mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism was difficult to detect in a group of mildly demented AD patients in comparison to a group of healthy older subjects. These results suggest that simple use of mesial temporal lobe metabolic rates as a diagnostic for AD may not be fruitful, and that evaluation of the earliest stages of AD can be most productively studied by investigating healthy older individuals."}
{"id": "8622264", "title": "[A phase 3 clinical trial of 123I-iomazenil, a new central-type benzodiazepine receptor imaging agent (Part 2)--Report on clinical usefulness in diagnosis of degenerative neurological diseases and mental disorders].", "content": "[A phase 3 clinical trial of 123I-iomazenil, a new central-type benzodiazepine receptor imaging agent (Part 2)--Report on clinical usefulness in diagnosis of degenerative neurological diseases and mental disorders]. Iomazenil (IMZ) is a partial inverse agonist of central-type benzodiazepine receptors (BZR) which binds specifically to BZR with high affinity. A multi-center Phase 3 clinical study was performed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of 123I-IMZ-SPECT in the diagnosis of brain disorders in 169 patients with degenerative neurological diseases and 37 patients with mental disorders such as neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders. In dementia, the decrease in activity in late images, obtained three hours after administration of 123I-IMZ, correlated negatively with the dementia score. In Parkinson's disease and spinocerebellar degeneration. 123I-IMZ showed a more profound decrease in uptake in late images than seen in the cerebral blood flow (CBF) images, and this decrease was in proportion to the duration and severity of the illness. In mental disorders, the ratio of the late to early image counts showed a negative correlation with Hamilton's anxiety scale in all regions in the brain cortices. In panic disorders, the ratio of the cerebral count to the cerebellar count in the late images correlated negatively with the severity of the attack in the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices. These results suggest that 123I-IMZ-SPECT enables us to evaluate the neuronal damage in degenerative diseases and the decrease in the BZR binding potential in mental disorders."}
{"id": "8610304", "title": "Neuropsychological, psychiatric, and cerebral blood flow findings in vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuropsychological, psychiatric, and cerebral blood flow findings in vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Psychiatric, neuropsychological, and cerebral blood flow differences between patients with ischemic vascular dementia (IVD) or Alzheimer's disease (AD) were examined. A consecutive series of patients who met either the criteria of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association for probable AD or the State of California AD Diagnostic and Treatment Centers criteria for probable IVD were included in the study. Twenty consecutive patients with IVD were matched for age, sex, and Mini-Mental State Examination scores with 40 consecutive patients with probable AD. Patients underwent a psychiatric interview, a neuropsychological assessment, and single-photon emission CT imaging with 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime. Patients with IVD showed significantly more severe anosognosia (P<.05) and emotional lability (P<.01) than AD patients, but no significant between-group differences were found in the frequency and severity of depression. IVD patients showed significantly more severe deficits in tests of planning, sequencing (P<.05), and verbal fluency (P<.05) as well as significantly more severe cerebral blood flow deficits in the basal ganglia (P<.01) and the frontal lobes (P<.001) than AD patients. Patients with IVD showed a relatively more severe dysfunction of the frontal lobes as demonstrated by single-photon emission CT and expressed in specific psychiatric and neuropsychological changes than AD patients matched for age, sex, and severity of dementia."}
{"id": "8576501", "title": "1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry, and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in normal aging, age-associated memory impairment, and probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry, and 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in normal aging, age-associated memory impairment, and probable Alzheimer's disease. To better understand how to differentiate the \"in vivo\" normal aging brain from pathological conditions, namely dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), by means of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS), to show neuroanatomical, perfusional and neurochemical details, respectively. 1H-MRS, MRI-based hippocampal volumetry and 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT were performed in healthy older subjects as well as patients suffering from age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) and dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). Eighteen subjects were selected from those referred to an outpatient clinic for diagnostic evaluation of cognitive impairment entered the study. Six patients fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA diagnostic criteria for DAT, six subjects were affected by AAMI, and six cognitively healthy subjects, selected from among relatives of the patients, were defined as controls. The 1H-MRS and MRI studies were performed on a 1.5 Tesla NMR-imaging system equipped with a spectroscopy research package. SPECT scans were performed on a Gamma 11 computer system. 1H-MRS showed significantly lower N-acetylasparatate concentration in DAT and AAMI compared with controls. Conversely, mean inositol concentration was significantly higher in DAT than in controls, whereas AAMI subjects registered intermediate values. MRI measurements showed significantly reduced volumes of hippocampal formations in DAT and AAMI groups compared with controls. Finally, 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT showed a significant frontal, temporo-parietal, and occipital hypoperfusion in DAT patients only. These findings support the hypothesis of a continuum among the three conditions studied, or at least between AAMI and DAT, where AAMI seems to be an early, monosymptomatic stage of Alzheimer disease. Accepting this view, it would be questionable to maintain the term \"age-associated memory impairment\" as a discrete entity."}
{"id": "8555659", "title": "Usefulness of follow-up regional cerebral blood flow measurements by single-photon emission computed tomography in the differential diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Usefulness of follow-up regional cerebral blood flow measurements by single-photon emission computed tomography in the differential diagnosis of dementia. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether follow-up measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provide additional information in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Thirty-six patients (70 +/- 14 yr) with suspected dementia who had two technetium 99m-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime SPECT scans over 18 +/- 7 months were included in this retrospective study. The patients comprised three groups based on the final clinical diagnosis: (1) neurodegenerative disorder (NDD) including Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 13), frontotemporal lobe dementia (n = 2), progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 1), and mixed dementia (AD plus multiinfarct dementia [MID]) (n = 3); (2) MID (n = 8); and (3) psychiatric disorders (depression [n = 7], psychosis [n = 1], and anxiety [n = 1]). Blinded to the clinical diagnosis and using visual analysis, the nuclear medicine physicians compared the second scan with the first scan for each patient to characterize temporal changes in rCBF. SPECT findings were categorized into three patterns of rCBF change: worsened, improved, and unchanged. Of the worsened rCBF group, 17 (85%) belonged to the NDD group whereas 2 (10%) and 1 (5%) belonged to the MID and psychiatric disorders groups, respectively. All 5 (100%) of the improved rCBF patients belonged to the psychiatric disorders group. Thus, worsening of rCBF favors the diagnosis of NDD whereas improvement in rCBF may mitigate against the diagnosis of NDD or MID. Follow-up rCBF measurements by SPECT thus provided additional information on the possible cause of dementia. A prospective study to further evaluate the usefulness of follow-up rCBF measurements by SPECT appears warranted."}
{"id": "9384916", "title": "Clinical neuroimaging in psychiatry.", "content": "Clinical neuroimaging in psychiatry. The practical aspects of contemporary neuroimaging techniques relevant to clinical psychiatry are reviewed. In particular, the structural imaging modalities of computed axial tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are described and compared. Likewise, functional neuroimaging modalities including the nuclear imaging techniques of positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), as well as the newer magnetic resonance techniques of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), are reviewed. Although structural imaging techniques are most useful for ruling out medical etiologies of mental status disturbances, functional neuroimaging techniques currently have an adjunctive role in the evaluation of dementia and seizure disorders and show promise for the evaluation of primary psychiatric disorders in the future. Specific guidelines are suggested regarding the use of these neuroimaging studies."}
{"id": "8821506", "title": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration--the usefulness of surface anatomy scatomy scanning image by MRI].", "content": "[A case of corticobasal degeneration--the usefulness of surface anatomy scatomy scanning image by MRI]. We experienced usefulness of surface anatomy scanning (SAS) image by weight-summation technique using MRI in corticobasal degeneration. The patient was a 73-year-old right-handed woman who had progressive dysarthria and clumsiness of the right hand. Neurological examination revealed mild dementia, dysarthria, buccofacial apraxia, rigidity and dystonic movement of the right upper limb. Dysarthria was guessed to be caused by buccofacial apraxia. Brain CT and MRI demonstrated atrophy of the left frontoparietal lobes, and hypoperfusion was shown in their areas by 123I-IMP SPECT. Clearly, SAS image disclosed the atrophy of the left pre- and post-central gyri that were surrounded by enlarged sulci. SAS was recently designed in Japan as a technique for visualization of brain surface structures. It is difficult to observe surface structures of cerebral gyri and sulci by conventional neuroradiological slice image, so SAS is useful for analysis of disorders affecting cerebral cortex as corticobasal degeneration."}
{"id": "8821493", "title": "[Differences of neuroimaging between early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia].", "content": "[Differences of neuroimaging between early-onset and late-onset Alzheimer-type dementia]. Several studies have shown that the symptomatology and the neuropathological and neurochemical changes of early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EAD) differ from those of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LAD). The aim of the present study is to examine differences in SPECT and MRI findings between EAD and LAD. Cerebral blood flow and patterns on SPECT, and deep white matter lesions and cerebral atrophy on MRI in 17 patients with EAD were compared with 30 patients with LAD without cerebrovascular risk factors. Temporoparietal activity ratio, divided by cerebellum, on SPECT imaging in patients with EAD was significantly lower than in patients with LAD. In a qualitative assessment of perfusion patterns, bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion, which is typical in AD, was seen more frequently in patients with EAD than in those with LAD. Among white matter changes in MRI, the score of white matter hyperintensity was significantly higher in LAD than in EAD patients. However, there was no significant difference between periventricular hyperintensity scores. Though ventricular enlargement did not differ significantly in EAD and LAD, cortical atrophy scores in LAD were significantly higher than in EAD. Cortical atrophy scores were significantly higher in patients with atypical perfusion patterns on SPECT, (e.g. global hypoperfusion in addition to temporoparietal change), than in patients with typical perfusion pattern. These results indicate that functional and morphological imagings in LAD differ with those in EAD, probably due to less-prominent neuropathological degeneration combined with age-related alterations."}
{"id": "8787100", "title": "[Progressive lupus dementia. 2 cases with or without antiphospholipid antibodies].", "content": "[Progressive lupus dementia. 2 cases with or without antiphospholipid antibodies]. Two cases of lupus dementia presented many points of particular interest: 1) the progressive installation of intellectual deterioration, inaugural for the first observation; 2) the diagnostic difficulties of neurolupus with the ARA criteria; 3) the appearance of cerebral magnetic resonance imaging with confluent hypersignals of the periventricular white matter on T2-weighted images; 4) the patholophysiological hypotheses: vascular disease? immunologic disease?; 5) the clinical improvement and SPECT amelioration for the second patient with corticosteroids."}
{"id": "8777802", "title": "[Correlative study of the brain CT and clinical features of patients with Down's syndrome in three clinical stages of Alzheimer type dementia].", "content": "[Correlative study of the brain CT and clinical features of patients with Down's syndrome in three clinical stages of Alzheimer type dementia]. Patients with Down's syndrome often develop Alzheimer type neuropathological changes as well as dementia of the Alzheimer type after the age of 40. We studied brain CT findings in relation to three clinical stages of Alzheimer type dementia in 11 patients with Down's syndrome aged from 17 to 55 years. In addition, 123I-IMP-SPECT was studied in 4 of these patients. Dementia of the Alzheimer type was present in 9 patients; 5 patients were in the early stage, 2 were in the progressive stage, and the other 2 were in the end stage. The earliest CT finding was enlargement of the suprasellar cistern, which indicated atrophy of the medial temporal lobe including the hippocampus and amygdala. This finding was not present in non-demented individuals with Down's syndrome. Moreover, CT scans showed that brain atrophy progressed to the temporal, frontal lobe, and then generalized cerebral cortices, which correlated clinically with the severity of dementia. Studies of 123I-IMP-SPECT in two patients with mild dementia revealed abnormally decreased isotope uptake in the temporal and posterior parietal regions. We suggest to measure the size of the suprasellar cistern in CT and SPECT scans for early detection and diagnosis of mild dementia of the Alzheimer type in patients with Down's syndrome."}
{"id": "8752463", "title": "[Reappraisal of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia].", "content": "[Reappraisal of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia]. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with dementia is characterized by rapidly progressive dementia and motor neuron involvement. The age at onset in 12 sporadic cases ranged from 43 years to 78 years. The initial symptoms are dementia, such as uninhibited behavior and personality change in most patients. Both dementia and motor neuron involvement appear within 1 or 2 years of the onset. The clinical picture of motor neuron disturbance was bulbar-type ALS. In ALS-dementia, lower motor neuron sign is predominant than upper motor neuron sign. The pattern of dementia indicated impaired frontal lobe function, confirmed by frontal sign such as perseveration, forced grasping and utilization behavior. These neurological signs are significant in association with the frontal lesion on CT, MRI and single photon emission computed tomography. The pathological findings show frontotemporal atrophy, mild non-specific neuronal loss of cortical superficial layer, fibrous gliosis of subcortical white matter, degeneration of substantia nigra and motor neuron involvement. The clinicopathological findings resembled those of dementia of frontal type and are distinct from those of Alzheimer's disease. We thus consider that the combination of motor neuron disease and dementia is a new clinicopathological entity, quite distinct from ALS or other dementias, as Yuasa and Mitsuyama proposed earlier."}
{"id": "8745627", "title": "[Frontal type dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 3 cases with (HmPAO Tc99m) single-photon emission tomography study].", "content": "[Frontal type dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 3 cases with (HmPAO Tc99m) single-photon emission tomography study]. Three cases of rapid onset neuropsychological frontal dementia preceded the development of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by 12 to 24 months. HmPAO Tc99m scintigraphy demonstrated hypoactivity in the cortex, predominantly in the frontal region. Three hypotheses are discussed: 1) coincidence between two degenerative diseases, Alzheimer's disease or Pick's disease and ALS; 2) an amyotrophic form of Creutzfeld Jakob disease; 3) pre-senile dementia associated with a motoneuron disease, a clinical pathology entity recently described by Mitzuyama."}
{"id": "8745625", "title": "[Neurological applications of single photon emission tomoscintigraphy].", "content": "[Neurological applications of single photon emission tomoscintigraphy]. Brain single photon emission tomography is a functional imaging modality in constant evolution. Tracers belong to 4 categories; blood pool tracers, perfusion tracers, ligands of receptors, \"metabolic\" tracers. Examination conditions must be accurately described since they may cause specific cerebral activation. The interpretation must be done in comparison with a morphological examination (CT or NMR). Cerebrovascular diseases, temporal lobe epilepsy and dementia were the first domains of application. Now many studies concentrate on cerebral cognitive or pharmacological activation procedure before the tracer injection to capture an aspect of the brain functioning. It is mandatory to clearly state what is expected from the examination: an answer for a given patient and a specific question or a study of an homogeneous group of patients. In order to yield relevant results, such studies must rely on a rigorous methodology."}
{"id": "8720331", "title": "[Serial changes of MRI and SPECT findings in a case of adult-onset SSPE].", "content": "[Serial changes of MRI and SPECT findings in a case of adult-onset SSPE]. A 20-year-old man who had developed involuntary movement of his left hand and memorial disturbance visited our hospital in December, 1991. On admission, myoclonus, dementia and speech disturbance were recognized. He was diagnosed as subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) based on a high titer of serum anti-measles antibody (1/256), serum anti-measles-IgG antibody (> 1/4,800) and typical EEG fiding of periodic synchronus discharge (PSD). Inosine pranobex was administrated orally (4,800mg per day). Serial cranial magnetic resonance imagings (MRI) were taken since January, 1992 to June, 1994. No abnormal finding was demonstrated until April 16, 1992 in MRI, but 123I-IMP SPECT detected decreased accumulation in parietal to occipital lobes on early image in February 5, 1992. Marked high signal area on T2 weighted image in right temporal lobe and parieto-occipital lobe were firstly demonstrated in June 22, 1992 on MRI. These high signal lesions alternated the areas and locations, but the changes were not related to his clinical symptom. These findings may suggest ischemic changes after demyelination. His symptoms have been improving gradually since June, 1994. To our knowledge, 42 cases of adult-onset SSPE were reported so far (5 were in Japan). This case is the first report in the world on adult-onset SSPE serially observed with MRI and SPECT since early stage."}
{"id": "8713508", "title": "[Frontal lobe-type dementia associated with motor neuron disease].", "content": "[Frontal lobe-type dementia associated with motor neuron disease]. A case of presenile dementia with dominant frontal disfunction, progressive aphasia and Motor Neuron Disease with prominent bulbar signs is reported. Considering the clinical examination, the measurements of the regional cerebral flow (SPECT) and the histological appearances, we suggest the diagnosis of Dementia of Frontal Lobe Type and Motor Neuron Disease. We reviewed other disorders labelled Primary Frontal or Fronto-temporal Dementias and we discuss this new dementia and the difficulty in its classification."}
{"id": "8598628", "title": "[Longitudinal study of neuropsychological and cerebral blood flow changes in Alzheimer-type dementia].", "content": "[Longitudinal study of neuropsychological and cerebral blood flow changes in Alzheimer-type dementia]. To examine the correlation between neuropsychological and cerebral blood flow changes in Alzheimer-type dementia (AD), we studied 17 patients with AD longitudinally (intervals ranging from 12 to 40 months). AD patients were divided into a slowly-progressive group (S, 10 patients) and a rapidly-progressive group (R, 7 patients) on the basis of progression rates of symptoms. The perfusion ratio (%) (PR), defined as the activity density in regions of interest normalized to the mean activity density in unaffected regions (cerebellum, primary visual and sensory-motor cortex), was used as a measure of relative regional cerebral blood flow by SPECT. Hasegawa's dementia score (HDS) in both the first and last studies significantly correlated with PR of the temporoparietal lobe, but not PR of the frontal lobe. The PR of the frontal lobe in the first study was significantly decreased in R-group patients compared to S-group patients. However, there was no difference in PR of the temporoparietal lobe between the S and R groups. Though the change in PR (PR (last study-first study)/duration) in the frontal lobe was significantly less in R-group than in S-group patients, there was no difference in the change in PR in the temporoparietal lobe. These results suggest that the degree of intellectual impairment is related to the function of the temporoparietal lobe, that progression is related to function of the frontal lobe, and that frontal hypoperfusion on SPECT may predict relatively rapid intellectual deterioration."}
{"id": "8579805", "title": "99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in the diagnosis of senile dementia of Alzheimer's type--a study under clinical routine conditions.", "content": "99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in the diagnosis of senile dementia of Alzheimer's type--a study under clinical routine conditions. This study was designed to evaluate, whether investigations of cerebral blood flow can be a helpful diagnostic tool in the differential diagnosis between (senile) dementia of Alzheimer's type [(S)DAT] and geriatric depression with cognitive impairment. Under clinical routine conditions we performed Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) using 99mTc-Hexamethylpropyleneamine Oxime (HMPAO) in 23 patients with (S)DAT (14f, 9m; mean age 68.9 y), 17 patients with geriatric depression (9 f, 8 m; mean age 66.4 y) and 12 age-matched controls (9 f, 3 m; mean age 69.2 y). Semiquantitative analysis (corticocerebellar ratios) of eight different regions of interest (ROI) revealed a significantly (p < 0.05) reduced perfusion in the (S)DAT patients compared to the control group. The depression group exhibited perfusion values between the (S)DAT and control group. The difference between the depression and (S)DAT group was most prominent in the left parieto-occipital ROI (p = 0.008). We discuss the data with extensive regard to the literature and conclude that 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT is a valuable additional tool in the differential diagnosis of depression and dementia in the elderly."}
{"id": "8578941", "title": "Failure of dopamine metabolism: borderlines of parkinsonism and dementia.", "content": "Failure of dopamine metabolism: borderlines of parkinsonism and dementia. Dementia in parkinsonian patients is estimated to 10-40%. Several factors may take part in the development of cognitive impairment: i/ defective function of subcortico-cortical pathways including the mesocorticolimbic dopamine deficiency with cell loss in medial substantia nigra, the degeneration of noradrenergic, serotonergic and cholinergic systems ii/ cortical and limbic Alzheimer pathology iii/ cortical Lewy bodies iv/ vascular alterations. Using HMPAO SPECT we distinguished three main types of hypoperfusion in Parkinson patients with dementia: i/ predominantly frontal lobe type ii/ posterior (\"Alzheimer-like\") type iii/ multiple small vascular defects. Neuropsychological investigation was based on the use of MMSE, word pair, digit span, verbal fluency, Lurija's tapping tests. In addition CURS and Hachinski's score were also applied. Selegiline (JumexR) therapy was introduced and the patients were followed for at least 60 days. Selegiline improved significantly the MMSE values and verbal fluency in the \"frontal lobe\" type further the memory functions in \"Alzheimer-like\" patients. The mechanism is still not clarified, the increased dopaminergic tone should be taken into account."}
{"id": "8551319", "title": "The contribution of single photon emission tomography to the clinical differentiation of degenerative cortical brain disorders.", "content": "The contribution of single photon emission tomography to the clinical differentiation of degenerative cortical brain disorders. The accurate clinical diagnosis of degenerative cortical brain disorders is a necessary prerequisite for patient management and the critical evaluation of new treatments. This study has evaluated the ability of single photon emission tomography (SPET) to differentiate between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and different forms of non-Alzheimer lobar atrophy (LA), using a multi-purpose system in widespread routine clinical use. 99mTc-HMPAO SPET was carried out in patients with AD and three clinical syndromes associated with LA: frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PA) and semantic dementia (SD). Principal component (PC) analysis was performed on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) data and inter-group comparisons were performed for PC scores using multiple t-tests. Three PCs explained 86.5% of the variation in rCBF values between individual patients and normal controls. The first PC reflected the average rCBF value and separated patient groups from normal controls but failed to distinguish between patient groups. The second PC reflected anterior-posterior asymmetry and separated AD from all three forms of LA. This PC also separated FTD and SD from controls but failed to distinguish between FTD, PA and SD. The third PC reflected left-right asymmetry and separated PA from all other groups. 99mTc-HMPAO SPET is able to differentiate between degenerative cortical brain disorders in a simple and physiological meaningful way, thereby showing considerable potential as a routine tool in the clinical evaluation and differentiation of AD and LA."}
{"id": "8548649", "title": "[Dementias: present situation and future perspectives (II). Biological markers].", "content": "[Dementias: present situation and future perspectives (II). Biological markers]. In the previous paper, the first one in our trilogy about dementias, we introduce the concept and evaluate the diagnostic methods and the data provided by epidemiological investigation. In this paper we review the different biological diagnostic markers, based, in the first place, on the studies of neuroimage (computerized axial tomography, magnetic resonance, functional neuroimage techniques) and those properly neurophysiological; in the second place, the anatomopathological and physiopathological markers are examined; and, in the third place, those based on the modern genetic investigations. In the absence of an 'univocal biological marker', the current investigation about markers is on the way to the study of abnormal proteins discovered in the brain, of the modifications detected in the cellular metabolism, of the manifestations of the immunologic mechanisms and of the involved inflammatory processes, and is on the way to the advances and proximate perspectives of molecular genetics and animal models. Meanwhile, the diagnostic for the main dementia, due to Alzheimer's disease, is basically a clinic, exclusive and residual one, mainly in its initial stadium."}
{"id": "8534556", "title": "[Familial posterior cortical atrophy with visual agnosia and B\u00e1lint's syndrome].", "content": "[Familial posterior cortical atrophy with visual agnosia and B\u00e1lint's syndrome]. We report a patient of posterior cortical atrophy with progressive visual agnosia, B\u00e1lint's syndrome and dementia in which posterior cortical atrophy with similar characteristics on CT and progressive dementia were found in a sister. The patient was a 75-year-old woman who noted the onset of a progressive visual disorder at the age of 70, and whose family first noticed disoriented behavior at around the same period. Ophthalmologic examinations revealed mild cataract but no evidence of peripheral optic nerve or retinal lesions. Neuropsychological examination showed right homonymous hemianopia, visual agnosia, B\u00e1lint's syndrome, mild transcortical sensory aphasia, Gerstmann's syndrome, constructional apraxia, mild ideomotor apraxia and memory disorder. MRI showed marked dilatation of both lateral ventricles, especially the posterior horns, and severe atrophy of the occipital lobes, hippocampus, and the parahippocampal gyrus. Assessment of regional cerebral blood flow by IMP-SPECT revealed a generalized decrease in the temporo-parieto-occipital region bilaterally. The patient's sister began to show evidence of progressive dementia at 80 years of age and CT of the brain revealed marked atrophy, predominantly in the occipital lobes, similar to that of the patient. We believe this to be the first report of posterior cortical atrophy with a positive family history, suggesting the possibility of a hereditary syndrome."}
{"id": "7898792", "title": "A comparison of neuroimaging modalities for diagnosing dementia.", "content": "A comparison of neuroimaging modalities for diagnosing dementia. Advances in neuroimaging have permitted knowledge of brain structures and physiology that were unknown 20 years ago and are playing an increasingly important role in the diagnosis of dementia. This article provides information on the types of brain scans, usual indications, risks, costs, and preparation of patients undergoing neuroimaging for the diagnosis of dementia. Each of the major imaging modalities is discussed from the perspective of what it uniquely offers to the diagnostic process. In general, the information gained from anatomic imaging complements that obtained from functional studies. In early stages of dementia, anatomic scans may appear normal while significant abnormalities are evident in functional images. This review familiarizes clinicians with these major developments to prepare them to educate and communicate with patients and their families."}
{"id": "7884512", "title": "Reversible hypoperfusion of the cerebral cortex in normal-pressure hydrocephalus on technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT images after shunt operation.", "content": "Reversible hypoperfusion of the cerebral cortex in normal-pressure hydrocephalus on technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT images after shunt operation. A man with dementia underwent radionuclide cisternography to establish the diagnosis of communicating hydrocephalus. Technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT images showed marked hypoperfusion of both posterior cerebral cortices and three-dimensional displays that demonstrated perfusion defects at both of the posterior parietotemporal regions. A successful ventriculoperitoneal shunt operation was performed. Five and one-half months later, repeat three-dimensional display showed that the perfusion defects had resolved and a repeat brain SPECT image showed marked improvement of the hypoperfusion. This concurred with postoperative clinical improvement. Technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT, which provides objective documentation of clinical recovery after surgery, could be routinely used to evaluate patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus."}
{"id": "7884501", "title": "Crossed cerebellar diaschisis: analysis of iodine-123-IMP SPECT imaging.", "content": "Crossed cerebellar diaschisis: analysis of iodine-123-IMP SPECT imaging. The aim of this study was to review the etiology of CCD and study factors that affect the development and manifestation of CCD. Three hundred and eleven patients with supratentorial lesions were evaluated for the presence of CCD with SPECT and 123I-IMP. In representative cases, continuous arterial blood sampling was done and rCBF was calculated using Kuhl's method. IMP-SPECT detected an abnormality in 206 patients, of whom 30 had CCD. Of CCD patients, 27 had more than single lobe involvement, 17 had motor impairment, 8 of 11 had rCBF of less than 29.1 +/- 10.9 ml/100 g/min. There was also a significant difference in rCBF between non-CCD and CCD cases. Although CCD can also occur with dementia (mixed or vascular type), it is more common with multilobar lesions. It is also associated with the presence of motor impairment but not related to its severity. It is more likely to develop, however, if rCBF is less than 29.1 +/- 10.9 ml/100 g/min regardless of etiology."}
{"id": "7872878", "title": "Temporal lobe perfusion on single photon emission computed tomography predicts the rate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Temporal lobe perfusion on single photon emission computed tomography predicts the rate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. To examine the ability of relative regional cerebral blood flow as measured by single photon emission computed tomography to predict longitudinal course of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. Single photon emission computed tomography using the blood flow tracer 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine was performed at initial evaluation and was used to predict the rate of cognitive decline over a follow-up period from 1 to 4 years. Outpatient university dementia clinic and center for functional imaging. Twenty-nine patients met National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria for probably or possible AD. Temporal lobe regional cerebral blood flow ratio at initial evaluation correlated with rate of decline in Mini-Mental State Examination over the longitudinal follow-up. Temporal regional cerebral blood flow ratio also predicted rate of decline of specific memory measures on the California Verbal Learning Test. Neither parietal nor frontal ratios predicted rate of cognitive decline. Dorsolateral frontal hypoperfusion was associated with the emergence of perseverative behaviors over time. Age, prior dementia duration, estimated prior rate of decline, and initial severity did not predict rate of cognitive decline. Results suggest that regional perfusion on single photon emission computed tomography may predict cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease better than these demographic and course variables."}
{"id": "7823074", "title": "Verbal fluency in dementia of frontal lobe type and dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Verbal fluency in dementia of frontal lobe type and dementia of Alzheimer type. This study compares semantic (category) and letter-initial verbal fluency performance in dementia of frontal lobe type, dementia of Alzheimer type, and control subjects matched for age, sex, and level of education. As well as demographic characteristics, patients were matched for severity of dementia as estimated by the mini mental scale (23.2 (SD 4.9)). All patients with dementia of frontal lobe type had a frontal hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography whereas patients with dementia of Alzheimer type showed mainly posterior deficits. Patients had significantly lower verbal fluency than controls but those with dementia of frontal lobe type did not differ from those with dementia of Alzheimer type in the number of words generated, intrusions, or preservations. Category fluency was more impaired than letter fluency in both dementias. No correlation between frontal index, frontal/parietal index, and fluency was found. Verbal fluency tests are sensitive tools for detecting dementia but do not seem useful in distinguishing between patients with dementia of Alzheimer type and those with dementia of frontal lobe type in early disease."}
{"id": "7790939", "title": "High-resolution SPECT to assess hippocampal perfusion in neuropsychiatric diseases.", "content": "High-resolution SPECT to assess hippocampal perfusion in neuropsychiatric diseases. The purpose of this study is to clarify the changes of hippocampal perfusion in neuropsychiatric diseases, including dementia, compared with control subjects, and to correlate hippocampal perfusion with the dementia rating scale and the severity of memory disturbance in patients with these diseases. A total of 45 right-handed patients were investigated (13 with dementia of Alzheimer type, 6 with multi-infarct dementia, 4 with progressive dementia with motor neuron disease (MND), 3 with transient global amnesia, 5 with other diseases and 14 control subjects). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the parietal cortex and hippocampus was evaluated by high-resolution SPECT technique with HMPAO in all subjects. The rCBF measurements in the bilateral parietal cortices and hippocampus were lower in dementia of Alzheimer type and multi-infarct dementia patients than in controls. Hypoperfusion in the hippocampus was a more sensitive marker than hypoperfusion in the parietal cortex in diagnosing dementia of Alzheimer type. Hippocampal hypoperfusion was observed in demented patients regardless of etiology and in patients having memory disturbance without dementia, such as transient global amnesia. Finally, hippocampal hypoperfusion reflected the severity of dementia and memory disturbance regardless of etiology. The rCBF image with high-resolution SPECT system may be useful in assessing the extent of dementia and memory disturbance in patients with neuropsychiatric diseases."}
{"id": "7777543", "title": "Neural-network-based classification of cognitively normal, demented, Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia from single photon emission with computed tomography image data from brain.", "content": "Neural-network-based classification of cognitively normal, demented, Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia from single photon emission with computed tomography image data from brain. Single photon emission with computed tomography (SPECT) hexamethylphenylethyleneamineoxime technetium-99 images were analyzed by an optimal interpolative neural network (OINN) algorithm to determine whether the network could discriminate among clinically diagnosed groups of elderly normal, Alzheimer disease (AD), and vascular dementia (VD) subjects. After initial image preprocessing and registration, image features were obtained that were representative of the mean regional tissue uptake. These features were extracted from a given image by averaging the intensities over various regions defined by suitable masks. After training, the network classified independent trials of patients whose clinical diagnoses conformed to published criteria for probable AD or probable/possible VD. For the SPECT data used in the current tests, the OINN agreement was 80 and 86% for probable AD and probable/possible VD, respectively. These results suggest that artificial neural network methods offer potential in diagnoses from brain images and possibly in other areas of scientific research where complex patterns of data may have scientifically meaningful groupings that are not easily identifiable by the researcher."}
{"id": "7771310", "title": "Frontal degenerative dementia and neuroimaging.", "content": "Frontal degenerative dementia and neuroimaging."}
{"id": "7763329", "title": "Strategic infarcts in vascular dementia. A clinical and brain imaging experience.", "content": "Strategic infarcts in vascular dementia. A clinical and brain imaging experience. The mechanisms of dementia resulting from small deep infarctions are incompletely understood. The thesis underlying the concept of \"multi-infarct dementia\" is that multiple lesions have a synergistic effect on mental functions, resulting in dementia irrespective of specific location or volume. In this report, we summarize our experience with six patients reported previously along with additional patients examined subsequently, whose clinical features and brain imaging findings allow an alternative formulation for dementia resulting from lacunar stroke. The six initial patients presented with an abrupt change in behavior after acute infarction involving the inferior genu of the internal capsule documented by computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The acute syndrome featured fluctuating alertness, inattention, memory loss, apathy, abulia, and psychomotor retardation suggesting frontal lobe dysfunction. Contralateral hemiparesis and dysarthria were generally mild, except when the infarct extended into the posterior limb. Neuropsychological testing in five patients with left-sided infarcts revealed severe verbal memory loss. Additional cognitive deficits consistent with dementia were evident in four patients. A right-sided infarct caused transient impairment in visuospatial memory. Functional brain imaging in three patients using 133xenon regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed focal reduction in hemispheric perfusion most prominent in the ipsilateral inferior and medial frontal cortex. Perfusion was also defective in the medial and laterial temporal cortex. Important pathways of the limbic system traverse the inferior capsule in the region of the genu. Corticothalamic and thalamocortical fibers form the thalamic peduncles which detach from the internal capsule and enter the thalamus at its rostral and caudal poles and along its dorsal surface. The anterior thalamic peduncle, conveys reciprocal connections between the dorsomedial nucleus and the cingulate gyrus, as well as the prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortex. The inferior thalamic peduncle carries fibers which connect the thalamus with orbitofrontal, insular, and temporal cortex, as well as the amygdala via the ansa peduncularis to the ventral amygdalofugal pathway. Thus, damage to one or both white-matter tracts may occur with infarctions in the region of the inferior genu, causing striking frontal behavioral effects and memory loss in our patients associated with functional deactivation of the ipsilateral frontal and temporal cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7756009", "title": "[Posterior cortical atrophy with progressive visual agnosia].", "content": "[Posterior cortical atrophy with progressive visual agnosia]. Interest in progressive focal cerebral syndromes associated with classical degenerative diseases has increased in recent years. Descriptions of posterior cortical atrophy with progressive visual agnosia are relatively rare. We present 5 patients (2 women) ranging in age between 57 and 72 years old. In all cases symptoms began and progressed with no known etiology. All cases were sporadic. The main clinical signs are difficulty in recognizing objects, colors, persons or places; topographical disorientation and visual memory alterations; alexia, simultagnosia, loss of ocular fixing and optic ataxia. Some patients presented other disturbances of praxis or memory and 2 progressed to global dementia. Language function was preserved and behavioral disturbances did not develop. The amplitude of the P100 visual evoked potential was low but latency was normal in 4 patients and prolonged in 1. Brain images showed atrophy and hypoperfusion in the parieto-occipital area. The neuropathology status of these patients is unknown."}
{"id": "7750079", "title": "Canadian guidelines for the development of antidementia therapies: a conceptual summary.", "content": "Canadian guidelines for the development of antidementia therapies: a conceptual summary. The magnitude of the problems faced by Canadian society as a result of an aging population has been identified. Perhaps the most important concern related to this greying of Canada is the increasing incidence of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Therapeutic options for these disorders have been limited to date. Advances in biotechnology and molecular biology will offer novel approaches to treatment. These and the expansion of more traditional therapeutic avenues require guidelines with the aim of optimizing their development."}
{"id": "7745399", "title": "Inter-relation between \"classic\" motor neuron disease and frontotemporal dementia: neuropsychological and single photon emission computed tomography study.", "content": "Inter-relation between \"classic\" motor neuron disease and frontotemporal dementia: neuropsychological and single photon emission computed tomography study. The purpose of this study was to examine the possible association between \"classic\" motor neuron disease (cMND) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), using neuropsychological evaluation and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Psychological tests assessing language, perceptuospatial, memory, and \"frontal lobe\" functions were given to patients with cMND and test scores were compared with those of normal control subjects. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT was performed on patients with cMND, FTD and motor neuron disease (FTD/MND), FTD alone, and normal control subjects. Regional cerebral blood flow indices (rCBFi) were determined in 36 cortical regions, and differences between grouped rCBFi data were investigated by canonical discriminant analysis. There were significant group differences in the scores of picture sequencing and token tests in patients with cMND compared with normal controls. Regional CBFi data showed frontal and anterior temporal reductions in patients with cMND compared with normal controls. A similar pattern of SPECT abnormality was seen in patients with FTD/MND and FTD alone, but to a more pronounced degree than in patients with cMND. Neuropsychological and SPECT findings in cMND, FTD/MND, and FTD showed a common pattern of cerebral involvement, most pronounced in the second two conditions. It is suggested that cMND, FTD/MND, and FTD represent a clinical range of a pathological continuum."}
{"id": "7743079", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Alzheimer's disease and other dementia syndromes can be characterized by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). SPECT can be used to measure cerebral blood flow or neurotransmitter activity in these disorders. SPECT can help distinguish various neurologic disorders and also help elucidate their pathophysiologic processes. This article focuses on the use of SPECT in the study of Alzheimer's disease and related neurologic disorders."}
{"id": "7728214", "title": "Neuronal ultrastructural abnormalities in a patient with frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease.", "content": "Neuronal ultrastructural abnormalities in a patient with frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease. Motor neuron disease (MND) can be associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and circumscribed lobar atrophy of frontal and temporal lobes. Neuropathological correlations were sought in postmortem studies from a woman with these associated conditions. Cerebral blood flow imaging and autopsy showed cortical abnormalities in the frontal and temporal lobes, but typical argyrophilic Pick's bodies were absent and ubiquitin-positive neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions were rare. However, hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed eosinophilic, granular, central cytoplasmic 'clearing' in most neurons of the substantia nigra and in cervical anterior horn cells. Electron microscopy showed that these neurons contained a central cytoplasmic zone cleared of neuromelanin and normal cytoplasmic organelles containing small mitochondria with matrix inclusions and randomly oriented filamentous material. A mitochondrial dysfunction or defective transport of mitochondria into axonal processes needs to be studied as a potential cause for the coassociation of MND and FTD."}
{"id": "7718935", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography of the brain in acute mania and schizophrenia.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography of the brain in acute mania and schizophrenia. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging with n-isopropyliodoamphetamine (IMP) was performed on 11 patients with bipolar mania, 21 acute schizophrenics, and 15 healthy control subjects. Subjects were evaluated with neuropsychological tests and psychiatric rating scales. SPECT brain studies were blindly evaluated to assess the degree of radiopharmaceutical uptake in three neuroanatomical regions of interest in each hemisphere. All the control subjects, 1 manic patient, and 1 schizophrenic patient had normal brain SPECT uptake patterns. The scans of all others were read as abnormal. Hypofrontality was noted in some schizophrenics and maniacs. A significant increase in tracer uptake in temporal lobes was observed in both patient groups, more prominently in the manic patients. Increased and decreased basal ganglia uptake was also observed in patients. Both manic and schizophrenic patients showed cortical tracer heterogeneity of varying degree. The patterns of cerebral SPECT uptake seen in these acute psychoses were not specific for a diagnosis, but may be associated with dimensions of psychopathology. Because the patterns are different from those seen in cerebrovascular disease and the dementias, they may prove to be helpful in differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "7710647", "title": "Dementia of the frontal type: neuropsychological and [99Tc]-HM-PAO SPET features.", "content": "Dementia of the frontal type: neuropsychological and [99Tc]-HM-PAO SPET features. Dementia of the frontal type (DFT) is a degenerative disorder with early behavioral and language disturbances and with relative preservation of memory and visuospatial abilities. On neuropathology, DFT lacks the pathologic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We assessed the neuropsychological and SPET imaging features of 11 DFT and 16 AD patients. The two groups had similar performances on verbal learning, while the former had significantly higher nonverbal learning scores. Testing of verbal and nonverbal instrumental abilities showed that this different behavior could be due to poorer verbal fluency of DFT patients, and not necessarily to poorer learning. Neuropsychological data indicated that the often reported sparing of memory in daily functions of DFT patients can also be shown with formal neuropsychological testing of nonverbal learning. SPET showed a comparatively higher perfusion deficit of frontal regions in the left hemisphere of DFT patients, suggesting that this region might be affected more often in the disease."}
{"id": "7699453", "title": "SPECT diagnosis of Creutzfeld-Jacob disease.", "content": "SPECT diagnosis of Creutzfeld-Jacob disease. SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO was performed on a 65-yr-old patient with Creutzfeld-Jacob disease. Cerebral blood flow was heterogeneously decreased throughout the brain, differing from the pattern observed in other common types of dementia. These results suggest that HMPAO-SPECT may provide useful information in the differential diagnosis of dementia, specifically when Creutzfeld-Jacob disease is suspected."}
{"id": "7675354", "title": "The value of SPET imaging in dementia.", "content": "The value of SPET imaging in dementia. This review critically evaluates the current role of single photon emission tomography (SPET) imaging in the clinical management of patients with dementia. The classification of the dementias is discussed and the clinical and pathological features of the various dementing illnesses are described. Typical appearances on cerebral blood flow imaging are presented for each of the conditions, together with the findings on D2 dopaminergic receptor and muscarinic receptor imaging where this is relevant. The review concludes with a section on the clinical value of SPET imaging in dementia. SPET imaging can make a valuable contribution to the accurate clinical differentiation of dementia, providing findings are interpreted in the light of neurological evaluation and structural imaging. The possible future role of SPET imaging in the prediction and evaluation of response to future therapeutic agents is discussed."}
{"id": "7671977", "title": "Dementia due to lacunar infarctions: a misnomer or a clinical entity?", "content": "Dementia due to lacunar infarctions: a misnomer or a clinical entity? The following points should be considered in dealing with dementia occurring in patients with lacunar infarctions. Lacune is a pathological term and its definition rests on its size (from 2 to 15 mm in diameter). However, terms such as lacunar syndromes and lacunar infarctions are currently used in clinical parlance and recent papers. Patients with lacunar infarctions differ from patients with large infarctions, being more often hypertensive, showing a characteristic but not specific clinical syndrome, and disclosing a significantly lower recurrence rate for new episodes and a significantly higher survival rate. Patients with lacunar infarctions develop a state of dementia 5 times as often as the general population and 25 times as often as in the age group of our patients (65-69 years). Leukoaraiosis, significantly related to arterial hypertension, to lacunar infarction, to an extra risk of future stroke, may be considered an increased risk of cerebral vascular lesions possibly leading to dementia. The relationship between vascular lesions and dementia includes: the strategic location of the lesion (thalamus, corticothalamic areas, bilateral lesions); the whole cerebral hypoperfusion apart from the infarcted area, as shown by PET and SPET; remote effects of cerebral infarctions (diaschisis phenomenon); the so-called incomplete infarction; cerebral atrophy and, particularly, the enlargement of cerebral ventricles, significantly higher in patients with lacunes and dementia as compared with patients with lacunes without dementia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7669494", "title": "Functional brain imaging with SPECT in normal aging and dementia. Methodological, pathophysiological, and diagnostic aspects.", "content": "Functional brain imaging with SPECT in normal aging and dementia. Methodological, pathophysiological, and diagnostic aspects. New developments in instrumentation, radiochemistry, and data analysis, particularly the introduction of 99M TC-labeled brain-retained tracers for perfusion studies, have opened up a new era of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). In this review critical methodological issues relating to the SPECT instrument, the radioactive tracers, the scanning procedure, the data analysis and interpretation of data, and subject selection are discussed together with the changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) observed in normal aging. An overview is given of the topography and the pathophysiological and diagnostic significance of focal rCBF deficits in Alzheimer's disease and in other dementia disorders, in which SPECT is capable of early or preclinical disease detection. In Alzheimer's disease, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of focal rCBF deficits measured with SPECT and brain-retained tracers are very high, in particular when combined with medial temporal lobe atrophy on CT. Together with neuropsychological testing, SPECT serves to map the topography of brain dysfunction. Thus, in the clinical setting, SPECT provides information that is supplemental to that obtained in other studies. Future applications include neuroreceptor studies and treatment studies, in which SPECT may serve as a diagnostic aid in the selection of patients and as a potential mean for monitoring treatment effects. Although positron emission tomography is the best characterized tool for addressing some of these clinical and research issues in dementia, only the less expensive and technically simpler SPECT technique will have the potential of being available as a screening diagnostic instrument in the clinical setting. It is concluded that, properly approached, functional brain imaging with SPECT represents an important tool in the diagnosis, management, and research of dementia disorders."}
{"id": "7669420", "title": "[Slowly progressive memory impairment without generalized dementia--a clinical and radiological study].", "content": "[Slowly progressive memory impairment without generalized dementia--a clinical and radiological study]. We report a patient with a ten-year history of slowly progressive recent memory decline without additional cognitive impairment in presenility. A right-handed Japanese barber first experienced forgetfulness at the age of 59. Neurological examination at age 64 revealed no abnormality except for severe impairment in memorizing. Brain CT-scans were normal. In spite of gradually deteriorating memory, he was capable of organizing his work until the age of 67 years. At age 69, he showed intense recent memory defect and disorientation in time, but immediate memory span and remote memory beyond the retrograde gap were better preserved. Intelligence quotient (IQ) on the Wechsler adult intelligence scale-R remained 85 (verbal IQ, 88: performance IQ, 83). Neurological examination was negative. He showed no signs of aphasia, agnosia, or apraxia. Minimal organic personality changes were noticed. Brain CT-scans and MRI revealed mild atrophy of the temporal lobes and hippocampal formation on both sides. I123-IMP single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) disclosed a decrease of cerebral blood flow in both the inferior temporal and superior frontal regions. SPECT after acetazolamide administration showed augmented accumulation in areas with decreased accumulation at baseline. Despite progressive memory impairment, the absence of aphasia, agnosia, or apraxia differentiates our case from more common Alzheimer's disease. A degenerative disorder of focal cerebral atrophy or \"simple senile dementia\" of presenile onset was suspected of causing the underlying pathophysiological changes."}
{"id": "7659391", "title": "A method of two-dimensional mapping of cortical perfusion by cylindrical transformation of HMPAO SPET data.", "content": "A method of two-dimensional mapping of cortical perfusion by cylindrical transformation of HMPAO SPET data. In order to synthesize three-dimensional information on relative regional blood flow (rCBF) from the cortical grey matter in 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission tomographic (SPET) images into a single two-dimensional 'cortical peel' (CP) image, we developed a program that performs cylindrical transformation of SPET data. A sub-routine of this program performs measurements of cortex-to-cerebellum rCBF ratios for 54 cortical regions in the CP image. This program was used to establish a normative database derived from 30 young normal control subjects aged 28.7 +/- 6.9 years. The database was then used to express cortex-to-cerebellum rCBF ratios in four colour-coded ranges of normal standard deviation of the mean rCBF ratio across the cortical regions in the CP image. This CP method was implemented for 30 clinical HMPAO SPET studies in patients (n = 30, aged 71.8 +/- 4.2 years) with suspected dementia as well as several studies in aged healthy subjects (n = 8, aged 67 +/- 9.8 years). In 25/30 (83%) patients, all abnormalities seen on the tomographic display were evident on the corresponding CP image. No aged healthy subjects showed abnormalities on either the tomographic display or the corresponding CP image. An advantage of this technique is that the extent and severity of rCBF abnormalities are readily appreciated in one single image. This technique, in conjunction with the conventional multi-slice tomographic display, was a useful tool in identifying various patterns of rCBF abnormalities in the patients with clinically suspected dementia."}
{"id": "7630742", "title": "[Diagnosis of SDAT by HMPAO SPECT and vitamin B12 serum concentration].", "content": "[Diagnosis of SDAT by HMPAO SPECT and vitamin B12 serum concentration]. It is quite difficult to confirm the diagnosis of demential disorders, including senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) by clinical means only. Through the combination of 99mTc-HMPAO brain SPECT and serum vitamin B12 determination it was hoped to speed up and improve the diagnosis of SDAT. 116 patients who had been divided into four groups according to their defect pattern in the 99mTc-HMPAO brain SPECT 17 very probably had SDAT; of these 15 showed a defect-pattern with brain SPECT which could be associated to SDAT. The majority of SDAT patients had serum vitamin B12 levels in the lower normal range or pathologically below that range. Both investigations contributed to establishing the SDAT diagnosis without replacing other investigations. The determination of serum vitamin B12 does not require any major additional effort."}
{"id": "7626837", "title": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "SPECT perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of dementia. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging has provided the practicing clinician with a method of studying brain function in patients with dementia. A large and growing number of papers report the experiences of a number of laboratories in the use of this technique in the evaluation of demented patients. Studies from several laboratories comparing patients with Alzheimer's disease to control subjects report sensitivity and specificity of SPECT perfusion imaging to be in the 80% vicinity. In addition, a number of studies suggest that the dementias that show the greatest similarities in perfusion patterns to Alzheimer's disease are multi-infarct dementia and dementia associated with Parkinson's disease. Although considerable data exists to guide the physician, a rigorous scientific approach to studying patients in a prospective, unselected clinical sample, with autopsy confirmation of the diagnosis, is needed to define clearly the utility of the technique in diagnosing dementias."}
{"id": "7625974", "title": "A clinical perspective on SPECT.", "content": "A clinical perspective on SPECT. The potential clinical utility of SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography) brain imaging to clarifying certain diagnostic dilemmas faced by clinical psychiatrists is considered generally and is illustrated by several case vignettes. Three case histories consider dementia vs depressive pseudodementia, two the possibility of a cerebral vasculitis in patients with auto-immune conditions, and two whether the patient had a \"type\" of depression likely to benefit from a course of ECT. Published studies reviewing the utility of SPECT in dementia, depression, depressive \"pseudodementia\" and cerebral lupus are considered. It is suggested that SPECT is an important investigatory technique providing additional information that may assist some diagnostic decisions, while its utility in assisting other clinical decisions awaits clarification."}
{"id": "7623939", "title": "[Familial forms of frontotemporal dementia].", "content": "[Familial forms of frontotemporal dementia]."}
{"id": "7620526", "title": "Clinical diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia and Alzheimer's disease: relation to cerebral perfusion, brain atrophy and electroencephalography.", "content": "Clinical diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia and Alzheimer's disease: relation to cerebral perfusion, brain atrophy and electroencephalography. The regional cerebral blood flow, brain atrophy, white matter changes and neurophysiologic changes were evaluated in 28 patients with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in 8 patients with a clinical diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia (FLD) using single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography (EEG). We found that FLD patients had more severe frontal blood flow reduction and less severe parietal blood flow reduction compared to AD patients. Among patients with mild dementia the EEG changes were less severe in the FLD group. No significant differences were found in white matter changes or in regional atrophy."}
{"id": "7612383", "title": "[Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia and vascular dementia based on neuroimaging study].", "content": "[Differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia and vascular dementia based on neuroimaging study]. A new method for differential diagnosis of Alzheimer-type dementia (AD) and vascular dementia (VD) based on neuroimaging studies was developed by Hayashi's quantification theory II. Fifty-five patients with AD and 36 patients with VD underwent both SPECT and MRI studies. Both images in each subject were scored according to the extent of hypoperfusion in areas including frontal and temporoparietal regions and the severity of deep white matter lesions and medial temporal lobe atrophy. The scores of AD and VD patients were significantly different, and this difference was considered to contribute most to the differential diagnosis of AD and VD. The weight of each score of SPECT and MRI items was computed, and the sum of the weights was calculated as a score for each subject to best distinguish AD from VD patients. This method was designed to simplify the calculation of the sample scores, and the sum of the weights was established so that a positive score (0 < or =) indicated the probability of AD, while a negative score (< 0) indicated the probability of VD. The correct diagnosis rate was 91% (50/55) for AD and 89% (32/36) for VD, for an overall discrimination of 90%. The present method seemed to be practically useful in the differential diagnosis of AD and VD."}
{"id": "7606283", "title": "Cerebrovascular reactivity to acetazolamide in (senile) dementia of Alzheimer's type: relationship to disease severity.", "content": "Cerebrovascular reactivity to acetazolamide in (senile) dementia of Alzheimer's type: relationship to disease severity. Neuropathological reports about denervation and amyloid angiopathy in dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT) as well as signs of selective incomplete white matter infarctions point to a vascular involvement within the degenerative process. In order to investigate potential alterations of cerebrovascular function we performed cerebral blood flow measurements before and after intravenous injection of 1 g acetazolamide using technetium-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission tomography in 12 patients (6 female, 6 male; mean age 70.8 +/- 9.6 years) with probable (senile) dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) and 9 controls (7 female, 2 male; mean age 71.2 +/- 8.6 years). SDAT patients revealed significantly reduced cerebrovascular reactivity with lower values with increasing cognitive impairment. We discuss possible underlying mechanisms."}
{"id": "7597417", "title": "Clinical brain radionuclide imaging studies.", "content": "Clinical brain radionuclide imaging studies. A recent survey of the knowledge and practice of both positron-emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain among referring physicians in Europe (neurologists and psychiatrists) showed a disquieting lack of knowledge of the potential of these methodologies in the investigation and management of patients of their own specialities. The need to bring the knowledge of the potential of these techniques to the practicing physicians is paramount. It is imperative that the methodologies and concepts that preside over the application of these techniques in neurology and psychiatry must become more uniform if an impact is to be felt at a clinical level. There is clear improvement in the instrumentation available with the new state-of-the-art tomographic devices and with the development of new technetium-based radiopharmaceuticals for the study of cerebral perfusion. The constant progress made with ligands that permit the study of neurotransmission, tumor metabolism, and turnover do expand our capability to improve the knowledge concerning neurophysiology, neuropathology, and neuropharmacology of a variety of disease states. PET and SPECT will be progressively included in protocols aimed at stratifying patients with dementia, monitoring therapeutic trials, and improving our ability to determine outcome. Clinical usefulness of PET and SPECT begin to emerge in cerebral vascular disease, in the identification of cerebral death, in epilepsy, in cerebral trauma, in the investigation of HIV-positive patients with cerebral involvement, and in the monitoring of tumor recurrence and postirradiation damage. This review article outlines a current perspective of SPECT and PET as practiced in Europe, its potential, and its limitations."}
{"id": "7594158", "title": "SPECT in dementia: clinical and pathological correlation.", "content": "SPECT in dementia: clinical and pathological correlation. The clinical diagnosis of dementia continues to be flawed. Although the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is better than 90% at research centers in highly selected patients, the diagnosis of patients with non-AD dementias and atypical AD patients is poor. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a functional imaging technique touted as a diagnostic technique for the degenerative disorders. However there have been few clinicopathological studies using SPECT. Twenty-seven consecutive dementia patients were evaluated clinically at a University-based specialty dementia clinic, and a diagnosis of a specific dementia was made. SPECT imaging was used in helping to select a clinical diagnosis. The correlations between clinical, SPECT and autopsy diagnoses were analyzed. Single photon emission computed tomography predicted pathologic diagnosis in 25 of 27 patients with dementia (92.6%), compared with clinical diagnosis, which was confirmed in 20/27 (74.1%). Distinct patterns were associated with dementia caused by AD, Fronto-Temporal Dementia (FTD), and Jakob-Creutzfeldt Disease (JCD). Vascular insults not seen with computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were found with SPECT. Three different pathologies were found in patients with Parkinsonian-Dementias (PD): Lewy-Body Variant of AD, Diffuse Lewy-bodies without plaques, and substantia nigra neuronal loss without plaques or Lewy-bodies. All showed a temporal-parietal pattern with SPECT that was similar to AD. SPECT provides useful positive information in dementia, particularly the differentiation of AD, FTD, and JCD. However, it does not distinguish PD from AD."}
{"id": "7590593", "title": "[The semiquantitative measurement method of cerebral blood flow using SPECT image].", "content": "[The semiquantitative measurement method of cerebral blood flow using SPECT image]. I devised the convenient semiquantitative measurement method of cerebral blood flow using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) and adapted clinically the method to vascular dementia. SPECT imaging utilized the tracer N-isopropyl-p-[I-123] iodo amphetamine (IMP) and 99mTc-hexamethyl-propyleneamineoxime (HMPAO) with a relative measure of regional tracer uptake normalized to cerebellar radiotracer uptake (rCBF ratios). In order to investigate relationships between dementia and cerebral blood flow, I studied 34 patients with vascular dementia and 20 control subjects by the semiquantitative measurements of relative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). In this study I set the lower most normal rCBF ratio (NFL) in IMP-SPECT and HMPAO-SPECT. These NFL of IMP-SPECT were higher than those NFL of HMPAO-SPECT in all cerebral cortices. NFL of IMP-SPECT were nearer to PET's than NFL of HMPAO-SPECT. I indicated rCBF ratio in each region of cerebrum by distinguishing color of SPECT image. In vascular dementia, while IMP-SPECT imaging showed the reduction of rCBF ratio in both of frontal lobes and temporal lobes, HMPAO-SPECT imaging indicated several groups which showed no reduction in temporal lobes. This difference may be due to the lower detection rate of ischemic change in HMPAO-SPECT than IMP-SPECT and it was consistent with many of other reports. This result may suggest usefulness of this method."}
{"id": "7578283", "title": "Inner connections within domain of dementia praecox: role of supervisory mental processes in schizophrenia.", "content": "Inner connections within domain of dementia praecox: role of supervisory mental processes in schizophrenia. Kraepelin's conclusion that there were underlying common features justifying the amalgamation of catatonia, hebephrenia and paranoia hallucinatoria to form a single illness is confirmed by factor analytic studies delineating the various dimensions of schizophrenic psychopathology. Neuropsychological studies reveal that the three cardinal dimensions reflect disorder of the supervisory mental processes responsible for initiation, selection and monitoring of self-generated mental activity. Brain-imaging studies indicate that the underlying neuropathology entails disordered functional connectivity within the neural networks in multimodal association cortex that are the substrate of the supervisory mental processes, consistent with Kraepelin's own speculation about the essential nature of the condition."}
{"id": "7573586", "title": "SPECT findings on psychosis in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "SPECT findings on psychosis in Alzheimer's disease. This study examined whether psychosis in Alzheimer's disease is associated with cerebral perfusion patterns appreciable by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans. All cooperative outpatients enrolled in an Alzheimer's disease research center with the diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease and a Clinical Dementia Rating of mild or moderate were interviewed with their primary caregivers. Current and past psychiatric functioning was assessed by using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R, and the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale. Patients without premorbid psychosis received SPECT scans, and the scans of the patients with delusions or hallucinations (N = 30) were compared to the scans of patients without these symptoms (N = 16). The patients with delusions (N = 29) had hypoperfusion of the left frontal lobe in relation to the right frontal lobe. The patients with hallucinations (N = 10) had hypoperfusion in the parietal lobe. Psychotic patients with Alzheimer's disease had a pattern of cerebral blood flow deficits significantly different from that of nonpsychotic patients. This suggests that patterns of cerebral dysfunction may be expressed symptomatically as psychosis."}
{"id": "7561970", "title": "Diagnosing Alzheimer's disease in elderly, mildly demented patients: the impact of routine single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Diagnosing Alzheimer's disease in elderly, mildly demented patients: the impact of routine single photon emission computed tomography. Based on the observation of bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease (AD), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is advocated by some as a powerful diagnostic tool in the evaluation of demented patients. We studied whether routine brain SPECT in elderly, mildly demented outpatients increases the a priori diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of a careful clinical examination. 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT imaging was performed in 110 patients for a first evaluation for dementia. A semiquantitative measure of temporoparietal (TP) perfusion was calculated as the ratio of the activity in the temporoparietal cortex to activity in the cerebellum. A diagnosis of probable AD according to the McKhann criteria was made in 68 patients (mean age of 79.3 years) based on the results of a clinical examination, ancillary investigations and a 6-month follow-up. TP perfusion was significantly lower in AD patients than in 18 age-matched, non-demented controls. However, at a specificity of 89%, sensitivity was only 43% for detecting probable AD. The clinicians judged that SPECT had contributed to the final diagnosis in only 8% of the demented patients investigated. Routine brain SPECT in elderly, mildly demented outpatients does not contribute substantially to diagnostic accuracy after a careful clinical examination using current diagnostic criteria. Clinical guidelines have to be developed for the use of SPECT in patients with (suspected) dementia."}
{"id": "7561963", "title": "Neuropsychological tests and [99mTc]-HM PAO SPECT in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Neuropsychological tests and [99mTc]-HM PAO SPECT in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia. Twenty-three patients with Alzheimer's dementia (AD) in relatively early stages and 40 patients with other cognitive disorders of vascular or degenerative aetiology underwent neuropsychological examination and [99mTc]-HM PAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). In contrast to the commonly accepted notion of a posterior temporoparietal reduction of tracer uptake as the typical SPECT pattern of AD, the most consistent feature found in the SPECT images of our AD patients was a hippocampal uptake deficit, associated with a variable degree of temporal, parietal and frontal deficit (extending from the posterior to the anterior regions), according to the severity of the disease. These results support the theory of AD as a \"hippocampal dementia\", at least in the early stages. Neuropsychological tests were found to be somewhat more specific and more accurate than SPECT in distinguishing AD from non-AD cases."}
{"id": "7554681", "title": "SPECT in adult mosaic Down's syndrome with early dementia.", "content": "SPECT in adult mosaic Down's syndrome with early dementia."}
{"id": "7552947", "title": "Radionuclide brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).", "content": "Radionuclide brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1) may produce a variety of central nervous system (CNS) symptoms and signs. CNS involvement in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) includes AIDS dementia complex or HIV-1 associated cognitive/motor complex (widely known as HIV encephalopathy), progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML), opportunistic infections such as Toxoplasma gondii, TB, Cryptococcus and infiltration by non-Hodgkin's B cell lymphoma. High resolution structural imaging investigations, either X-ray Computed Tomography (CT scan) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) have contributed to the understanding and definition of cerebral damage caused by HIV encephalopathy. Atrophy and mainly high signal scattered white matter abnormalities are commonly seen with MRI. PML produces focal white matter high signal abnormalities due to multiple foci of demyelination. However, using structural imaging techniques there are no reliable parameters to distinguish focal lesions due to opportunistic infection (Toxoplasma gondii abscess) from neoplasm (lymphoma infiltration). In this manuscript we review the use of radionuclide brain imaging techniques in the investigation of HIV infected patients. Brain perfusion single photon emission tomography (SPET), neuroreceptor and positron emission tomography (PET) studies are reviewed. Greater emphasis is put on the potential of some radiopharmaceuticals, considered to be brain tumor markers, to distinguish intracerebral lymphoma infiltration from Toxoplasma infection. SPET with 201Tl using quantification (tumour to nontumour radioactivity ratios) appears a very promising technique to identify intracerebral lymphoma."}
{"id": "7550598", "title": "Dietary changes, compulsions and sexual behavior in frontotemporal degeneration.", "content": "Dietary changes, compulsions and sexual behavior in frontotemporal degeneration. The occurrence of weight gain, sweet and carbohydrate craving, hyposexuality, and compulsions in frontal lobe dementia (FLD) compared to Alzheimer's disease (AD) was evaluated. FLD is a progressive dementia with a high rate of misdiagnosis and therefore better diagnostic criteria for FLD are needed. Fourteen patients meeting research criteria for AD were compared to 14 with suspected FLD. All had cerebral perfusion measured with xenon-133 and imaged with HMPAO using brain-dedicated SPECT. The FLD group showed frontotemporal and AD posterior temporoparietal hypoperfusion. The primary caregivers were queried regarding weight gain, sweet/carbohydrate preference, sexual drive, and compulsions. Differences were compared with Fisher's exact test. The following was found in FLD versus AD: Weight gain in FLD patients amounted to 64% (AD 7%), carbohydrate craving was 79% (vs. 0%) and compulsive behavior 64% (vs. 14%). The differences for these symptoms were statistically significant, whereas for the symptoms increased sexual drive (8 vs. 8%) and reduced sexual drive (54 vs. 23%) no significant difference could be found. In FLD the first symptoms were often dietary changes or hyposexuality. Compulsions were more bizarre and severely disabling in FLD than in AD. Dietary changes, hyposexuality, and disabling compulsions are prominent early symptoms in FLD but not AD. The cause of these symptoms may be due to both frontal and subcortical serotonin loss and dysfunction of the anterior temporal lobes."}
{"id": "7498872", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging in senile dementia. Exclusion of specific treatable causes also in the elderly].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging in senile dementia. Exclusion of specific treatable causes also in the elderly]. Dementia is a common problem in elderly patients and may influence the indication for invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures under consideration for other diseases more than age itself. This short paper reviews the role of tomographic imaging techniques--whose possibilities have expanded in recent years--in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Computerized tomography (CT) of the brain is used primarily to detect such potentially treatable conditions as multiple ischemic infarctions, hematomas, hydrocephalus and brain tumors. It should be performed even in old age, unless the patient's general state of health is too poor to expect good results from therapeutic measures. Magnetic resonance imaging is more sensitive in ischemic white matter lesions and hippocampal atrophy, and should therefore be used preferentially in mildly affected patients. Functional imaging methods, such as SPECT and PET, are needed only to demonstrate impairment of cortical blood flow and metabolism in clinically unclear cases."}
{"id": "7480442", "title": "Electroencephalography and single photon emission computed tomography in dementia: a comparative study.", "content": "Electroencephalography and single photon emission computed tomography in dementia: a comparative study. A series of elderly patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (AD), multi-infarct dementia (MID) and functional (non-organic) psychiatric illness (major depressive disorder) were selected according to DSM-III-R criteria and received: a battery of cognitive tests, EEG and Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) using 99mTc HMPAO. The EEG and SPECT scans were examined independently of the clinical data. The former were divided into two abnormal categories, those showing AD type change and vascular change respectively, and a normal group. The SPECT scans were classified as follows: a SPECT rCBF pattern showing bilateral temporoparietal perfusion deficits (AD type); those showing single focal perfusion deficits or multiple areas of low perfusion in the cerebral cortex suggestive of ischaemic change (vascular type SPECT picture); a mixed AD/MID pattern; and those with normal scan findings. There were significant associations between clinical diagnosis, EEG rating and SPECT rCBF pattern, approximately three-quarters of AD and MID patients having the predicted EEG and scan changes. Normal EEG recordings were more common in the MID patients. The two tests agreed in about two-thirds of cases, with no consistent pattern apparent in the cases with divergent findings. Each test misclassified a minority of dementia patients, but in only one patient were both investigations normal. Almost half of the so called 'functionally ill' patients had abnormal rCBF changes, showing mainly vascular changes while one-fifth had abnormal EEGs."}
{"id": "7478254", "title": "Tetrahydroaminoacridine modulates technetium-99m labelled ethylene dicysteinate retention in Alzheimer's disease measured with single photon emission computed tomography imaging.", "content": "Tetrahydroaminoacridine modulates technetium-99m labelled ethylene dicysteinate retention in Alzheimer's disease measured with single photon emission computed tomography imaging. The present study investigated if acute treatment with tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) (25 or 75 mg, p.o.) affects technetium-99m labelled ethylene dicysteinate (ECD) retention abnormalities in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD; mean age 69 years). THA (75 mg) increased temporal, prefrontal and occipital ECD retention (normalized to cerebellum) in mildly demented AD patients, but 25 mg of THA had no effect on ECD retention. After 75 mg THA, prefrontal and temporal ECD retention correlated with improved executive and memory functioning, respectively. THA (25 or 75 mg) had no measurable effect on ECD retention of moderately demented patients."}
{"id": "8528351", "title": "Evaluation of estrogen treatment in female patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Evaluation of estrogen treatment in female patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type. This study was designed to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of estrogen in female patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). Fifteen DAT patients with a mean age of (mean +/- SE) 71.9 +/- 2.4 years were treated with 0.625 mg of conjugated equine estrogens orally twice a day for 6 weeks. Of the 15 DAT patients, 4 were diagnosed as mild, 7 as moderate and 4 as severe. The effects of estrogen on DAT patients were evaluated by psychometric assessments, behavior rating scales, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurement and quantitative EEG analysis. Psychometric assessments consisted of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Hasegawa Dementia Scale (HDS). Dementia syndromes were evaluated by the GBS-Scale (GBSS) and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). During estrogen replacement therapy (ERT), the mean MMSE score (mean +/- SE) increased significantly from 11.6 +/- 1.9 to 13.2 +/- 2.0 at 3 weeks (P < 0.01) and 13.8 +/- 2.0 at 6 weeks (P < 0.001). The mean HDS score increased significantly from 8.6 +/- 2.1 to 11.5 +/- 2.3 at 3 weeks (P < 0.001) and 11.6 +/- 2.6 at 6 weeks (P < 0.01). Significant improvements in the mean scores of the GBSS and HDRS were also observed in the estrogen-treated group, but not in the untreated control group with a mean age of 71.2 +/- 2.5 years (n = 15). The rCBF was measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). ERT increased the mean rCBF significantly in the lower frontal region (P < 0.01) and primary motor area (P < 0.02) of the right hemisphere. The mean absolute power delta band values in both left and right frontal EEG (Fp1 and Fp2) (P < 0.01) and theta, band values in Fp2 (P < 0.05) decreased significantly during ERT. It is inferred that ERT significantly improves cognitive functions, dementia symptoms, regional cerebral blood flow and EEG activity in female patients with DAT."}
{"id": "8263078", "title": "99mTc-bicisate (neurolite) SPECT brain imaging and cognitive impairment in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a blinded read of image sets from a multicenter SPECT trial.", "content": "99mTc-bicisate (neurolite) SPECT brain imaging and cognitive impairment in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a blinded read of image sets from a multicenter SPECT trial. A blinded read of images obtained with 99mTc-bicisate and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was conducted to determine if a relationship exists between the severity of abnormalities on SPECT brain images and the severity of cognitive impairment in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and to examine the interreader agreement for visual reading of images in a multicenter SPECT study. Images for a total of 86 subjects were available for the blinded read. The images for 28 subjects were rated as noninterpretable due to technical inadequacies. Images for 58 subjects (45 DAT patients and 13 normal volunteers) from 10 SPECT centers were selected for further analyses. The severity of abnormality was rated as mild, moderate, or severe by three readers. In DAT patients, a significant negative correlation (p < 0.05) of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score with global severity of abnormality was noted for two of the three readers. A significant correlation (p < 0.05) between MMSE score and severity of abnormality was observed for all three readers for the posterior temporoparietal region. The blinded readers rated a median of 92.3% of normal volunteers' images as normal and a median of 82.2% of DAT patients' images as abnormal. For the regional severity of abnormality, the median percentage interrater agreement across all regions ranged from 95 to 100% in normal volunteers and from 81 to 98% in DAT patients. These results suggest that SPECT brain imaging with 99mTc-bicisate provides functional information about the severity of cognitive impairment in DAT patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8263073", "title": "Brain perfusion SPECT with 99mTc-bicisate: comparison with PET measurement and linearization based on permeability-surface area product model.", "content": "Brain perfusion SPECT with 99mTc-bicisate: comparison with PET measurement and linearization based on permeability-surface area product model. To characterize a recently introduced cerebral perfusion tracer, 99mTc-bicisate, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images of 99mTc-bicisate were compared with CBF images obtained by positron emission tomography (PET) using the 15O steady-state method in 10 cases of cerebrovascular disease and dementia. 99mTc-Bicisate SPECT and PET CBF images showed a similar distribution pattern except for two cases with subacute stroke, in which 99mTc-bicisate showed less uptake than CBF in the infarcted area where oxygen metabolism was severely diminished. Comparison of 99mTc-bicisate uptake and CBF in the other eight cases showed less contrast between high- and low-flow regions in 99mTc-bicisate SPECT. Although the SPECT count ratio of cerebral structures to cerebellum showed a good correlation with CBF ratio, it gradually deviated from the linear relationship in the high-flow range. Assuming this nonlinear relationship is due to the limited extraction of the tracer, we estimated the permeability-surface area product (PS) value by a nonlinear least-squares curve-fitting procedure. The correction of the nonlinear relationship using the estimated PS value and a table lookup method resulted in an excellent linear relationship between corrected SPECT counts and CBF."}
{"id": "8263071", "title": "99mTc-bicisate reliably images CBF in chronic brain diseases but fails to show reflow hyperemia in subacute stroke: report of a multicenter trial of 105 cases comparing 133Xe and 99mTc-bicisate (ECD, neurolite) measured by SPECT on same day.", "content": "99mTc-bicisate reliably images CBF in chronic brain diseases but fails to show reflow hyperemia in subacute stroke: report of a multicenter trial of 105 cases comparing 133Xe and 99mTc-bicisate (ECD, neurolite) measured by SPECT on same day. A multicenter study was performed in seven European centers comparing 99mTc-bicisate with 133Xe as a means of evaluating bicisate as a tracer of CBF distribution in humans. The same type of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) instrument (Tomomatic) was used in all centers. A total of 115 cases were collected, and of these 105 were considered technically adequate, comprising 18 normal subjects, 18 senile dementia, eight epilepsy, one brain tumor, eight chronic head trauma, and 52 stroke cases. As expected, bicisate gave better spatial resolution than Xe. Agreement between the results of the two methods was noted in 98 cases, but not in the remaining 7, all belonging to the stroke group. These seven all suffered from a subacute stroke (11-23 days after onset), and the disagreement in all cases consisted of bicisate showing low count rate in the area of the infarct and Xe a normal or elevated flow (luxury perfusion) as sign of spontaneous thrombolysis with reperfusion; in fact, these seven cases comprised all the reperfusion cases in the series. The results validate bicisate as a tracer of CBF in normal humans and in chronic brain diseases. Only in a subgroup of subacute stroke cases does bicisate not follow CBF, as it fails to show reperfusion hyperemia. This suggests the usefulness of bicisate in stroke cases, particularly in the subacute phase, where other SPECT methods often present difficulties due to reflow masking the size and the severity of the lesion."}
{"id": "8191980", "title": "The brain in older persons with and without dementia: findings on MR, PET, and SPECT images.", "content": "The brain in older persons with and without dementia: findings on MR, PET, and SPECT images. Neuroimaging plays an increasingly important role in the evaluation of dementias of older adults. Although no unequivocal diagnostic test other than biopsy is currently available for Alzheimer's disease and some other dementias during life, neuroimaging techniques are an integral part of the examination and follow-up of patients with dementia. This review describes findings in the brains of patients with normal aging and in elderly patients with dementia, as shown by MR imaging and MR spectroscopy, positron emission tomography (PET), and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and correlated with clinical and pathologic features."}
{"id": "8190810", "title": "[Multi-functional dementia rating scale: reliability and clinical validity].", "content": "[Multi-functional dementia rating scale: reliability and clinical validity]. A new rating method was designed to evaluate five symptoms of dementia; disorders of memory, cognition, language, visuospatial functions, and personality, which are defined as recent neuropsychological criteria for dementias by Cummings and Benson. Thirty-two items were made from the items of the Hasegawa dementia scale and neuropsychological tests. Scales for the five symptoms of dementia were then constituted of the items. In semi-structured interview, 113 demented patients and 16 normal elderly volunteers were rated. Interrater reliability of the five symptom scales were tested by ANOVA ICC and all the symptoms had a significant reliability. The scores of the five symptoms were correlated with each other and with the scores of the Hasegawa dementia scale. A Principal Component Analysis was applied to the scores of the five symptoms. The largest principal component had correlations with the scores of the Hasegawa dementia scale and the scores of the all five symptoms and was interpreted as a factor for severity of dementia. This component explains about 70% of total variance of the data. The other 30% of the variance were explained by four principal components which were interpreted as factors of the differences of the scores of the symptom scales. Relations between the scores of the symptoms and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measured using SPECT were investigated in 25 moderately demented patients which met the criteria of probable Alzheimer's disease of NINCDS-ADRDA. rCBF was calculated as a ratio of 123I-IMP uptake of the areas to the mean uptake of right and left cerebellum. Significant correlations were found between the scores of memory symptom and the rCBF of the left temporal lobe (r = 0.59: p < 0.01) and between the scores of personality changes and the rCBF of the both frontal lobes (r = 0.58, 0.54: p < 0.01). Results suggest the possibility that the distribution of brain damage reflects symptoms in dementia and also supports the validity of analytic evaluation of dementia symptoms by this scale."}
{"id": "8174508", "title": "[Affective disorders and dementia of the frontal lobe type. Hypothesis of a pathogenic relationship].", "content": "[Affective disorders and dementia of the frontal lobe type. Hypothesis of a pathogenic relationship]. The evolution of some dysthymic states towards dementia is now rarely considered whereas it was well known at the beginning of the century. In French the final stage of this evolution was known as \"d\u00e9mence v\u00e9sanique\". In recent years it has been noted that a proportion of patients with presenile dementia do not have Alzheimer's disease (AD) but a particular type of cognitive impairment., called dementia of the frontal lobe type (DFT), characterised by clinical and neuropsychological signs of frontal lobe disorder as well as an anterior defect of cerebral perfusion or metabolism. The onset of DFT is insiduous and marked by personality changes and inappropriate affect. It has not yet been reported as starting with true dysthymic disorders. PATIENTS AND METHODS. Ten right handed patients (F/M = 9/1) became dysthymic in their fifties (m = 49.8 + 7.6 yr). All initially met the DSM III-R criteria for mood disorders. They were all treated with the standard drugs or ECT. Although initially responsive all the patients relapsed and their dysthymic disorders became less typical in presentation. At a mean age of 63.6 +/- 2.9 yrs a particular type of dementia became evident. None of the patients had a previous history of mood disorder or a family history of dementia. The demented patients received thorough clinical examinations and 8/10 were tested with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS). All had XCT and HMPAO-SPECT scans using a rotating gamma camera. Three patients had a MRI Scan. RESULTS. The main symptoms were apathy and a lack of spontaneity as a result of which the patients were no longer able to live alone. HMPAO-SPECT: All the patients had clear hypoperfusion of the frontal and temporal lobes with seven showing a left predominance. XCT: A moderate degree of cortical atrophy, more pronounced in the frontal lobes, was observed in 6 patients. In 3 of them a previous XCT scan had been normal. MRI: Subcortical white matter hyperintensities were seen in the 3 patients examined. DISCUSSION. Although our patients do not probably form, with regard to a etiology a homogeneous group, they share common characteristics which are very similar to those which differentiates DFT from AD. We postulate that some dysthymic disorders of the presenium might represent the initial stage of this type of dementia. This hypothesis relies on the evidence for frontal dysregulation in mood disorders as demonstrated, for example, by PET studies. In these cases the cortical abnormalities usually disappear as the dysthymia improves and are considered functional phenomena. They may correspond to the mechanism of deafferentation (or diaschisis). This implies a primary lesion, presumably located at a subcortical level (for instance a white matter lesion) producing a disruption of function in a distant (initially) intact brain region. As a supplementary hypothesis we propose that with time, and for as yet unknown reasons, the frontal hypoperfusion in our patients lost its reversibility and that, as a result, a particular type of dementia became manifest. In some cases this diaschisis protractiva may lead to secondary cortical atrophy. CONCLUSIONS. A DFT was found in 10 patients who had become dysthymic in their fifties. A pathogenic hypothesis i.e. diaschisis protractiva, is proposed, based on the evidence of neuroimaging studies."}
{"id": "8167055", "title": "[A case of atypical presenile dementia].", "content": "[A case of atypical presenile dementia]. Kosaka (1993) reviewed 16 cases of slowly progressive presenile cortical dementia thought to be a clinicopathological entity with pathological features characterized by circumscribed lobar atrophy, diffuse neurofibrillary tangles, and calcification of the Fahr type, however, the clilical features of this new entity are not known in the description of detail. We report a patient with atypical presenile dementia which appeared to be consistant with that entity, together with the results of a comprehensive neuropsychological and neuroradiological examination. The patient was a 65-year-old right-handed housewife. At about 58 years of age, she started to lose spontaneity and develop a mild memory disturbance. At age 61 she transiently, experienced hallucinations and delusions. During the subsequent 8 years there was a very slight decline in global intellectual efficiency. In addition, she showed slow but definite progression of language disturbances characterized by anomia and loss of ability to grasp the meaning of words, particularly abstract nouns. She performed poorly on tasks with good sensitivity for detecting frontal lobe dysfunction, such as the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and the hand sequence test. All other cognitive functions appeared to be relatively well preserved, however moderate dyscalculia was present. There was no socially inappropriate or stereotyped behavior, but the patient lost insight into her disease. The patient's activities of daily living on the ward were self-maintained. An EEG was normal. CT and MRI scans showed circumscribed bilateral fronto-temporal atrophy and bilateral mineralization in the basal ganglia and cerebellar white matter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8158175", "title": "Heterogeneity of neocortical cerebral blood flow deficits in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study.", "content": "Heterogeneity of neocortical cerebral blood flow deficits in dementia of the Alzheimer type: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with high resolution brain dedicated single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) and [99mTc]-d,l-hexamethyl-propylene-amine-oxime (HMPAO) in 25 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and in 25 control subjects, selected according to rigorous inclusion and exclusion criteria. The aim was to analyse the topography of rCBF deficits in individual patients. In the group of patients with Alzheimer's disease as a whole, global CBF was reduced, but a factorial analysis of variance did not show disproportionate reduction of rCBF in any brain region. A parametric analysis of the rCBF data in individual patients was carried out with reference to normal values for internal rCBF ratios and to 13 different abnormal rCBF patterns. These theoretical patterns were predefined by showing significant hypoperfusion in at least one, or in any relevant combination of two, three, or four, of four major brain regions (a left and right frontal and a left and right posterior region). All patients with Alzheimer's disease and none of the control subjects had an abnormal rCBF pattern. Eleven of the 13 different patterns were seen in the patients. Frontal changes were seen in 19 (76%) of the patients, more often than previously reported. No single Alzheimer's disease pattern could be derived from our data. The number of regions with hypoperfusion, but not the presence of frontal changes, correlated significantly with the duration of disease. It is concluded that a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease is associated with heterogeneous patterns of rCBF deficits as measured with SPECT and [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO. This heterogeneity may reflect different stages of the disease or cognitive subtypes and help explain published discrepancies concerning the topography of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease. An analysis of individual rCBF data may add important information in the investigation of diseases with heterogeneous effects on the brain."}
{"id": "8145915", "title": "The diagnostic value of SPECT with Tc 99m HMPAO in Alzheimer's disease: a population-based study.", "content": "The diagnostic value of SPECT with Tc 99m HMPAO in Alzheimer's disease: a population-based study. We studied the diagnostic accuracy of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with technetium 99m-labeled hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (Tc 99m HMPAO) in 48 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and in 60 controls recruited from a population-based study. With logistic regression, we identified decreased temporal regional cerebral blood flow as the best discriminating variable between patients and controls. Receiver-operator characteristic curves showed that the discriminative ability of SPECT improved with increasing dementia severity. With specificity set at 90%, sensitivity figures were 42% in mild, 56% in moderate, and 79% in severe AD. The diagnostic gain as a function of the prior probability of the disease being present was computed for those with mild AD. When the prior probability varied at around 50%, the diagnostic gain for mild AD patients was substantial (a maximum of 34%) for a positive test result but poor for a negative test result. The results suggest that the practical usefulness of SPECT as a diagnostic adjunct in patients suspected of having mild AD is confined to situations in which, on clinical grounds, there is considerable diagnostic doubt."}
{"id": "8141022", "title": "SPECT imaging of the brain: comparison of findings in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, AIDS dementia complex, and major unipolar depression.", "content": "SPECT imaging of the brain: comparison of findings in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, AIDS dementia complex, and major unipolar depression. Chronic fatigue syndrome is an illness of unknown origin that begins abruptly with a flulike state and has symptoms suggesting both a chronic viral encephalitis and an affective disorder. We compared single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome with those of patients with AIDS dementia complex and unipolar depression. We used 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime to examine 45 patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, 27 patients with AIDS dementia complex, and 14 patients with major unipolar depression. Scans of 38 healthy persons were used as controls. Comparison of regional defects between groups, as well as midcerebral uptake indexes (an objective measure of global radionuclide uptake), was performed by using analysis of variance with the Student-Newman-Keuls option. Correlation between the number of regional defects and the midcerebral uptake index was determined by using the Spearman rank-correlation test. Patients with AIDS dementia complex had the largest number of defects (9.15 per patient) and healthy patients had the fewest defects (1.66 per patient). Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome and depression had similar numbers of defects per patient (6.53 and 6.43, respectively). In all groups, defects were located predominantly in the frontal and temporal lobes. The midcerebral uptake index was found to be significantly lower (p < .002) in the patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (.667) and patients with AIDS dementia complex (.650) than in patients with major depression (.731) or healthy control subjects (.716). Also, a significant negative correlation was found between the number of defects and midcerebral uptake index in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome and AIDS dementia complex, but not in depressed patients or control subjects. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that chronic fatigue syndrome may be due to a chronic viral encephalitis; clinical similarities between chronic fatigue syndrome and depression may be due to a similar distribution and number of defects in the two disorders."}
{"id": "8127386", "title": "[Current diagnostic criteria for vascular dementia; milestone or stumbling block?].", "content": "[Current diagnostic criteria for vascular dementia; milestone or stumbling block?]."}
{"id": "8107986", "title": "Quantification of functional deficit in Alzheimer's disease using a computer-assisted mapping program for 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT.", "content": "Quantification of functional deficit in Alzheimer's disease using a computer-assisted mapping program for 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT. A computer-assisted mapping program was developed to determine changes of cerebral perfusion in normal and pathological aging using single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) and 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO). The software program outlined the cortex on 14 adjacent brain slices, and superimposed a ring of 12 regions of interest on each slice. Regional/global and regional/cerebellar relative flow values were calculated in 27 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD) (mean age 71 years, SD 7.6) and in 10 normal controls (mean age 73.7 years, SD 7.3). The Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) was used to assess mental status in all subjects. Multiple regression analysis demonstrated a significant correlation between relative flow values and the DRS score. Regional/cerebellar (R = 0.88, p < 0.0001) relative flow values were a better indicator of cortical impairment than regional/global relative flow values (R = 0.68, p = 0.003). Of the brain regions of interest, the left parietal flow values correlated best with the DRS score (r = 0.83, p < 0.0001), a cutoff value of 77 accurately classifying 80% of the normals and 100% of the patients diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease. The data show that computer-assisted mapping of SPECT can provide semiquantitative flow values with high diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "8087734", "title": "SPECT for differential diagnosis of dementia and correlation of rCBF with cognitive impairment.", "content": "SPECT for differential diagnosis of dementia and correlation of rCBF with cognitive impairment. 99mTc-HM-PAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used to image 30 patients referred for the assessment of dementia. SPECT images revealed various patterns of regional cerebral perfusion (rCBF) in the subgroups of patients with the clinical diagnoses of Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 14), Pick's disease (n = 1), and multi-infarct dementia (n = 7). In three patients, SPECT clarified the clinical differential diagnostic possibilities. Using a relative rCBF quantification technique, the relationship between specific cognitive impairments and rCBF in the AD patients was determined. There was a significant correlation between language impairment and left hemisphere hypoperfusion, whereas, apraxia correlated with hypoperfusion in the left parietal region. Thus, HM-PAO SPECT is useful as an aid in the differential diagnosis of dementia and the technique of relative rCBF quantification with SPECT may contribute to the understanding of the clinico-anatomical relations of cognitive deficits in dementia."}
{"id": "8082684", "title": "Dementia syndrome in patients with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism and extensive brain calcifications.", "content": "Dementia syndrome in patients with postsurgical hypoparathyroidism and extensive brain calcifications. The authors report the cases of 2 patients with extensive brain calcifications after thyroidectomy, showing behavioral and cognitive changes suggesting a subcortical dementia syndrome. On the basis of clinical, neuroradiologic and SPECT features they discuss the role of the brain calcifications in the pathophysiology of associated cognitive disorders and the putative mechanisms for the observed neuropsychological disorders."}
{"id": "8082664", "title": "Choice of reference region in the quantification of single-photon emission tomography in primary degenerative dementia.", "content": "Choice of reference region in the quantification of single-photon emission tomography in primary degenerative dementia. This study evaluated the effect of using two different reference regions in the quantification of single-photon emission tomography (SPET). SPET scans of 30 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 30 patients with frontotemporal dementia were compared with the scans of ten age-matched controls. Regions of interest (ROIs) were defined on transaxial slices by a semi-automatic method. Regional cerebral blood flow indices (rCBFi) in each ROI were determined by normalizing the count densities to both cerebellar and occipital cortex reference regions. Mean rCBFi for each ROI were calculated for the patient and control groups and significant group differences determined. The number and topographical distribution of ROIs with significant group differences varied depending upon the choice of reference region. The magnitude of these differences was greatest when the cerebellum was used as the reference region. The disparity between results obtained with the two reference regions was most apparent in the AD group. The reasons for these differences are discussed and we conclude that the cerebellum is the more appropriate choice of reference region in the quantification of SPET in primary degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "8078635", "title": "The value of HMPAO SPECT scanning in the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease in patients attending a memory clinic.", "content": "The value of HMPAO SPECT scanning in the diagnosis of early Alzheimer's disease in patients attending a memory clinic. The value of hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) as a diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease (AD) was assessed in 44 patients attending a Memory Clinic. A comprehensive physical and psychiatric examination and detailed neuropsychological tests were used to arrive at a clinical diagnosis, in accordance with NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The mean patient age was 69 (range 59-84) years, and the mean score on the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was 24 (range 7-30). Of 26 patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD, only 15 demonstrated a scan pattern strongly suggestive of AD. Four scans were normal, four showed evidence of ischaemic change and three were in the category 'other', one of which showed bilateral frontal hypoperfusion, but normal temporoparietal flow. Of the eight patients considered by clinical criteria to be non-demented, no scan showed an AD pattern, but three showed an ischaemic pattern. Both of the patients diagnosed clinically as suffering from multi-infarct dementia showed SPECT scan evidence of ischaemic change. Of the remaining eight patients with other clinical diagnoses only one scan suggested AD. We conclude that the HMPAO SPECT scan appearances which arise from AD in the early stages of the disease do not on their own allow the disease to be accurately diagnosed, but they may be useful if interpreted in conjunction with other imaging techniques."}
{"id": "8071690", "title": "The discriminant value of semiquantitative SPECT data in mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The discriminant value of semiquantitative SPECT data in mild Alzheimer's disease. In most semiquantitative SPECT studies, overlap between groups of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched elderly controls is such that single posterior cortical perfusion measurements lack sensitivity. In the present study, the value of a combination of semiquantitative temporoparietal SPECT parameters was examined. Supratentorial transaxial perfusion measurements were obtained in frontal, anterior temporal, posterior temporoparietal and occipital cortical areas in both hemispheres, in a baseline population of 10 healthy elderly controls and 30 mild to moderately impaired AD patients, as well as in a prospective group of 15 patients with mild cognitive impairment, 12 patients with a diagnosis of probable AD and individual cases of multi-infarct dementia, dementia-frontal type and paranoid psychosis. A linear discriminant function (LDF) was calculated from the baseline subjects' data to classify control and AD subjects individually. Highly significant hypoperfusion was noted in both the anterior temporal and posterior temporoparietal regions of interest in the AD group compared with controls, but with significant overlap. Using an LDF incorporating these perfusion measurements in both hemispheres, 10/10 (100%) controls and 26/30 (87%) AD baseline subjects were correctly classified. Using the baseline LDF in the prospective 15 mildly impaired cases, 11/12 new mild AD cases and none of the 3 non-AD cases were classified in the AD group. These results support the use of a combination of semiquantitative SPECT perfusion estimates from cortical areas with predictable pathological involvement in AD in a linear discriminant format in the clinical assessment of patients with suspected AD."}
{"id": "8068438", "title": "[Improved perseveration with amantadine].", "content": "[Improved perseveration with amantadine]. We report here 3 patients who showed marked improvement of clonic and intentional perseverations following the administration of amantadine. Patient 1 had a subacute encephalitis of unknown etiology. Magnetic resonance imaging documented lesions predominantly in the bilateral putaminal and frontal subcortical areas, and positron emission tomography revealed frontal glucose hypometabolism. Daily amantadine hydrochloride of 200 mg with or without 10 mg of trihexyphenidyl, reduced his clonic and intentional perseverations. The diagnosis of patients 2 and 3 was vascular dementia with multiple subcortical ischemic lesions, and single photon emission CTs showed reduced cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobes. Their clonic perseveration subsided and intentional perseveration disappeared after the administration of 150 mg of daily amantadine hydrochloride. Associated Parkinsonism and confusional state also improved in patient 1, but not in patients 2 or 3. Amantadine increases the pre-synaptic synthesis and release of dopamine, and works as a dopamine system activator. Our findings suggest that the disturbance of dopamine system, especially meso-limbofrontal projection, has some contributions to the perseveration of these patients."}
{"id": "8065570", "title": "Three-dimensional surface display of brain perfusion with 123I-IMP in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Three-dimensional surface display of brain perfusion with 123I-IMP in Parkinson's disease. We reconstructed three-dimensional (3D) surface images from single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) data using N-isopropyl-p[123I]-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) in 27 patients with Parkinson's disease and 11 normal control subjects. The 3D reconstruction was performed using distance-shaded methods at threshold levels with an interval of 5% from 45-80%. Any area of decreased perfusion at each threshold level was visualised as a defect area by the algorithm. In nondemented patients with Parkinson's disease, perfusion defects were frequently found in the parietal cortex at a threshold value of 65%. In demented patients, perfusion defects were frequently seen at thresholds of 45-65%, and were more marked in the temporal and parietal cortex bilaterally. This suggests that dementia in Parkinson's disease is related to a reduction of perfusion in the temporoparietal cortex."}
{"id": "8050774", "title": "[Progress in vascular dementia--an overview of vascular dementia from past to new concepts].", "content": "[Progress in vascular dementia--an overview of vascular dementia from past to new concepts]. This article summarizes various concepts (Binswangers encephalopathy, multiinfarct-dementia, lacunar state, mixed dementia, dementia due to amyloid angiopathy or vasculitis) and classifications (DSM, ICD, ADDTC) on vascular dementia. It reviews historical, clinical, and diagnostic aspects (i.e. neuroradiology, SPECT, PET) as well as therapeutic approaches. The confusing nomenclature on vascular dementia is discussed, considering especially the non-convincing concept of multiinfarct-dementia that often has been misused as a synonym for vascular dementia. Multiinfarct-dementia is now restricted to a syndrome of vascular dementia due to several large vessels strokes. A current definition and classification of vascular dementia as suggested by NINDS-AIREN international workshop is described. It defines criteria consistent with the diagnosis of \"possible\", \"probable\" and \"definite\" vascular dementia based on clinical, radiologic and neuropathologic features. The criteria of \"probable\" vascular dementia include all the following: 1. the presence of dementia and cerebrovascular disease defined by focal signs on neurologic investigation and evidence of relevant cerebrovascular disease by brain imaging (multiple lacunae, extensive white matter lesions, multiple large-vessels infarcts or a strategically placed infarct) 2. A relationship between dementia and cerebrovascular disease (onset of dementia within 3 months following a recognized stroke; abrupt deterioration, stepwise progression). This classification of vascular dementia emphasises pathogenetic aspects and includes dementia resulting from small- and large-vessels disease as well as hypoperfusion, haemorrhagic dementia and dementia due to still unknown factors. Operational criteria for the frequent Binswangers encephalopathy--a prototype of vascular dementia--are presented. Thereby a basis for further research and discussion in this exciting area should have been formed."}
{"id": "8044031", "title": "Repetitive and compulsive behavior in frontal lobe degenerations.", "content": "Repetitive and compulsive behavior in frontal lobe degenerations. The authors review the relationship of repetitive behaviors to frontal lobe degenerations and report the repetitive and compulsive behaviors, radiologic imaging findings, and neuropathology of 3 patients with dementia secondary to frontal lobe degeneration. These 3 patients and 78% of 46 proven pathologic cases of frontal lobe degeneration described in the literature demonstrate repetitive behaviors ranging from motor stereotypies to complex obsessive-compulsive disorder. This review suggests that combined damage to the frontal lobe, caudate nucleus, and globus pallidus may account for the repetitive behaviors seen in frontal lobe degenerations, idiopathic obsessive-compulsive disorder, and other neuropsychiatric diseases."}
{"id": "8039099", "title": "Anatomic and physiologic imaging of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Anatomic and physiologic imaging of Alzheimer's disease. At present, no imaging modality is considered the standard diagnostic test for AD. On anatomic studies, severity of temporal lobe and hippocampal atrophy are the most reliable findings in AD, although overlap of these findings among AD, aging, and other dementias mitigate the value of these measures for application to the individual case. Although somewhat cumbersome for routine use, quantitative MR measurements offer more precise comparison of degrees of atrophy. Functional imaging may demonstrate abnormalities of perfusion or metabolism that precede anatomic changes (PET, SPECT, or MRS), yet these techniques generally require additional anatomic information from MR for interpretation. Newer investigational MR techniques such as MRS and functional MR in combination with conventional MR imaging have the potential to combine metabolic with anatomic imaging in one examination. A combination of both metabolic and anatomic imaging studies may ultimately offer better sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis, monitoring, and follow-up of AD."}
{"id": "8038869", "title": "Detection of an Alzheimer disease pattern of cerebral metabolism in Down syndrome.", "content": "Detection of an Alzheimer disease pattern of cerebral metabolism in Down syndrome. Correlational analysis of cerebral metabolic (rCMRglc) data obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) assesses group differences and has demonstrated reduced frontal-parietal rCMRglc interdependencies in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A multivariate analysis of rCMRglc data assesses individual differences. We recently identified discriminant functions, reflecting frontal-parietal rCMRglc interdependencies, that separated AD from control subjects. To test if the functions would identify an AD rCMRglc pattern in older Down syndrome (DS) adults with (DS DAT+) or without (DS DAT-) dementia, we applied the functions to longitudinal rCMRglc data in: young DS (n = 15), DS DAT- (n = 10), DS DAT+ (n = 4), and young controls (n = 15). All DS DAT+ and some of the later DS DAT- scans were classified as AD. The results provide additional validation of the functions and suggest their utility for the early detection of AD."}
{"id": "8030401", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography with [99Tc]-HM-PAO and [123I]-IBZM in Alzheimer's disease and dementia of frontal type: preliminary results.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography with [99Tc]-HM-PAO and [123I]-IBZM in Alzheimer's disease and dementia of frontal type: preliminary results. Dementia of frontal type (DFT) is a fairly common degenerative disease distinct from Alzheimer's disease (AD), whose reportedly distinctive instrumental feature is frontal lobe hypoperfusion on SPECT. We evaluated the cortical dopaminergic system in 6 AD, 5 DFT, and 6 control subjects with SPECT and both [99Tc]-HM-PAO, a perfusion tracer, and [123I]-IBZM, a D2 postsynaptic ligand. Both in AD and DFT patients, [99Tc]-HM-PAO SPECT showed a relative frontal hypoperfusion. On the contrary, [123I]-IBZM SPECT showed significantly reduced ligand uptake in superior frontal regions of DFT (0.89 +/- 0.08 relative to control subjects) as compared to AD patients (0.97 +/- 0.02; difference of means: 0.08, 95% Confidence Interval 0.004 to 0.156; p = 0.041). Results suggest more marked involvement of the frontal cortical dopaminergic system in DFT than in AD patients."}
{"id": "8026123", "title": "[Three-dimensional surface display with 123I-IMP brain perfusion imaging in patients with dementia].", "content": "[Three-dimensional surface display with 123I-IMP brain perfusion imaging in patients with dementia]. We reconstructed three-dimensional (3D) surface images from single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) data with N-isopropyl-p [123I]-iodo-amphetamine (123I-IMP) in 27 patients with Parkinson's disease, 16 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 9 patients with Binswanger's disease, and 11 elderly normal subjects. Three-D reconstruction was performed with Starcam 3000 XC/T using distance-shaded method at the threshold levels at intervals of 5% from 45% to 80%. In normal control subjects, no perfusion defects were found in any region at threshold values below 60%, although the frontal and temporal cortices occasionally showed perfusion defects at threshold levels from 60% to 80%. In patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia, perfusion defects were diffuse, particularly in the parietal and temporal cortices even at a threshold of 45%. Patients with Alzheimer's disease also showed diffuse perfusion defects, particularly in parietal and temporal cortices even at threshold levels as low as 45%. The primary visual cortex was less affected in these patients. The demented Parkinson's disease patients demonstrated perfusion defects similar to those of patients with Alzheimer's disease, although perfusion defects were more prominent in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In patients with Binswanger's disease, patchy perfusion defects were found most frequently in the frontal region. In addition, perfusion defects in the cerebellum and sensory motor cortex were more frequent in the Binswanger's disease patients than in patients with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease and normal subjects. The demented Parkinson's disease patients showed perfusion defects in the temporal and parietal cortices and demonstrated a perfusion pattern similar to that of patients with Alzheimer's disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8021663", "title": "Specificity of changes in cerebral blood flow in patients with frontal lobe dementia.", "content": "Specificity of changes in cerebral blood flow in patients with frontal lobe dementia. Eight patients with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease, eight patients with the clinical diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia, and eight controls were examined with single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using 99Tc-HMPAO. Patients with Alzheimer's disease and those with frontal lobe dementia met DSM-III-R criteria for mild dementia and were in the early stages of the illness. Compared with patients with Alzheimer's disease, the group with frontal lobe dementia had significantly lower blood flow in the frontal lobes (dorsolateral and orbital), the anterior temporal cortex, and the basal ganglia. Within the frontal lobe dementia group, blood flow was significantly lower in the orbital than in the dorsal frontal cortex, and in the anterior temporal than in the dorsal temporal cortex. The present study shows the specificity of changes in regional cerebral blood flow in the diagnosis of different types of dementia, and supports the importance of orbitofrontal, anterior temporal, and basal ganglia dysfunction in the production of the psychiatric syndrome of frontal lobe dementia."}
{"id": "8011253", "title": "Altered cortical blood flow in HIV-seropositive individuals with and without dementia: a single photon emission computed tomography study.", "content": "Altered cortical blood flow in HIV-seropositive individuals with and without dementia: a single photon emission computed tomography study. To quantitatively demonstrate the pattern of cerebral perfusion abnormalities in HIV-1-infected individuals described as 'patchiness' or inhomogeneity in previous qualitative emission tomographic imaging studies. We aimed to create a quantitative measure of inhomogeneity in HIV-infected individuals. High-frequency variance in cortical profiles is an indication of inhomogeneity in the distribution of radiotracer in the cerebral cortex. Therefore, the study analysis was designed to enable the estimation of variance frequencies in cortical profiles. Regional cerebral blood flow was examined in nine mildly demented and 10 cognitively normal HIV-1-seropositive individuals and eight seronegative normal controls using single photon emission computed tomography with the radiotracer [I-123]-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine. Quantitative analysis was performed using circumferential profiles of cerebral cortical perfusion. Fourier transform power spectra of the profiles were examined as an index of patchiness in tracer distribution. Normal controls were characterized by strong middle frequency and weak high-frequency power. Both HIV-1-infected groups showed a significant power shift from middle to high frequencies. Increased high-frequency variations in both HIV-1-infected groups indicates diffuse cortical perfusion changes compared with normal controls. This study suggests that there are cerebral bloodflow abnormalities in HIV-1-infected individuals both with and without clinically severe dementia."}
{"id": "8005154", "title": "A multi-institutional study of interobserver agreement in the evaluation of dementia with rCBF/SPET technetium-99m exametazime (HMPAO).", "content": "A multi-institutional study of interobserver agreement in the evaluation of dementia with rCBF/SPET technetium-99m exametazime (HMPAO). Although specific patterns of technetium-99m exametazime [99mTc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO)] brain single-photon emission tomography (SPET) uptake have been described for patients with dementia, no multi-institutional study has evaluated interobserver agreement. Interobserver agreement for 99mTc-HMPAO brain SPET uptake patterns in 50 clinically diagnosed demented subjects from four institutions were studied. Neurologists classified these subjects as presumed Alzheimer's disease (n = 21), confirmed Alzheimer's disease (n = 10), multi-infarct dementia (n = 9), HIV-related dementia (n = 7), or \"mixed\" (n = 3). In addition 20 normal (five per institution) 99mTc-HMPAO studies were included in a randomized blinded evaluation by three readers each from a different institution. Readers classified the general appearance of the images in one of four categories: normal, globally decreased uptake, focal areas of decreased uptake, and patchy changes in uptake. Consensus results show a sensitivity of 72% and specificity of 79% for identifying abnormalities in scans of demented subjects. Readers also rated 99mTc-HMPAO uptake in eight designated regions in each hemisphere. Significant reader agreement (P < 0.01) for the classification by general appearance and the ratings of regional uptake was obtained. This study demonstrates that interpretation of regional cerebral blood flow/SPET images is concordant across multiple institutions and readers."}
{"id": "7989292", "title": "Functional imaging in dementia: an overview.", "content": "Functional imaging in dementia: an overview. Functional brain imaging using both positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography has been widely applied to the study of dementing diseases. This article reviews the basic approach of the clinician to the problem of dementia, which primarily entails the exclusion of treatable or reversible causes. Structural brain imaging using magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography to search for reversible structural brain lesions is a key component of this evaluation. Functional imaging may provide clinicians with additional information helpful in establishing the cause of dementia after a reversible illness has been ruled out. Limitations in the data supporting the use of functional images still exist, however, and these images must be interpreted in the context of the overall clinical presentation."}
{"id": "7989291", "title": "The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a question of image?", "content": "The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: a question of image? The most common cause of dementia in the developed world is Alzheimer's disease. Histopathology is required to confirm diagnosis, but most evaluations of the accuracy of clinical criteria and neuroimaging in the diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type are without such confirmation. The average specificity of clinical criteria alone is about 75%. This paper discusses the contribution of simple structural (x-ray computed tomography [CT]) and functional (Tc-99m-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]) imaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in 71 histopathologically confirmed cases (47 with Alzheimer's disease, 16 with other dementias, 8 controls) and 84 living controls. Medial temporal lobe atrophy assessed by temporal lobe-oriented CT gave 94% sensitivity and 93% specificity, while parietotemporal hypoperfusion on SPECT revealed 96% sensitivity and 89% specificity. The combination of both changes yielded a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 97%. These investigations clearly enhance diagnostic accuracy, can be readily applied in the clinical situation, and could be used in epidemiologic studies of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "7989290", "title": "Clinical correlates of PET- and SPECT-identified defects in dementia.", "content": "Clinical correlates of PET- and SPECT-identified defects in dementia. Functional imaging studies in patients with dementia have focused primarily on the reliability of scan patterns to correctly diagnose specific diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease. Results from these studies have important implications as disease-specific treatments become available. A complementary approach is to examine the relationships between patterns of altered brain function and specific behaviors. This tactic has potential impact on understanding normal brain organization as well as targeting symptom-specific treatments. Regional abnormalities have been identified in dementia patients that correlate with specific behavioral deficits: disturbances of language and visuospatial function, impaired verbal fluency and selective attention, and the presence of delusions and depression. These patterns are seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease as well as with dementias of other etiologies. The specificity of these patterns for disease-specific and disease-independent symptoms is unknown."}
{"id": "7987785", "title": "Agenesis of corpus callosum and dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a review and case report.", "content": "Agenesis of corpus callosum and dementia of the Alzheimer's type: a review and case report. This paper describes a previously sufficiently functioning 57 year old man who presented with a recent onset of frontal behaviour. Partial agenesis of corpus callosum was an incidental finding on a computerized tomography scan. The EEG was within normal limits and neuropsychological testing did not reveal any interhemispheric disconnection. A SPECT-Scan revealed bilateral hypoperfusion, consistent with Alzheimer's dementia. Normal functioning up to 50 years of age and a later manifestation of Alzheimer's disease along with agenesis of carpus callosum is of clinical interest as such an association has not been published."}
{"id": "7969959", "title": "A SPECT study of delusions in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A SPECT study of delusions in Alzheimer's disease. Although delusions are a frequent finding in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), their mechanism is not well known. We carried out Tc 99m HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography studies in 16 AD patients with delusions and 29 AD patients without delusions comparable in age, years of education, duration of illness, and severity of dementia. Although we found no significant between-group differences in performance on neuropsychological tasks, AD patients with delusions had significantly lower mean cerebral blood flow in both the left and right temporal lobes."}
{"id": "7965038", "title": "Selective increase of NMDA-sensitive glutamate binding in the striatum of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and mixed Parkinson's disease/Alzheimer's disease patients: an autoradiographic study.", "content": "Selective increase of NMDA-sensitive glutamate binding in the striatum of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and mixed Parkinson's disease/Alzheimer's disease patients: an autoradiographic study. Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) may share certain abnormalities since a subset of PD patients suffer from dementia, and some AD individuals show extrapyramidal symptoms. In vitro quantitative autoradiography was used to examine different subtypes of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors (NMDA, KA, and AMPA) and dopamine transporter sites in the striatum (caudate, putamen) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) from idiopathic PD, pure AD, and mixed PD/AD patients. PD and AD groups, and to a lesser extent the PD/AD groups, showed substantially increased binding to NMDA receptors in the striatum and NAc. No statistically significant changes in binding to KA and AMPA receptors were found in any patient group. 3H-mazindol binding to dopamine transporter sites was significantly decreased in the striatum and NAc of PD and PD/AD patients, but only in the putamen and NAc of AD patients. The data indicate that (1) the majority of striatal EAA receptors are not located on dopaminergic nigrostriatal nerve terminals, and (2) elevated binding to striatal NMDA receptors correlates with binding to dopamine transporter sites in PD patients, but not in AD and PD/AD individuals. Thus, the mechanisms of NMDA receptor changes in the striatum of AD and PD patients may be different. However, it is postulated that increased binding to NMDA receptors in Parkinson and Alzheimer striatum occurs in response to an insult(s) within the striatothalamocortical circuits and that this may contribute to the clinical similarities described for subsets of PD and AD patients."}
{"id": "7936259", "title": "Brain single-photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Brain single-photon emission computed tomography. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provides cost-effective information on regional cerebral perfusion and, indirectly, on regional cerebral metabolism. Its ease of use facilitates the application of SPECT in clinical neurology. SPECT is emerging as a useful tool for the management of patients with stroke, epilepsy, recurrent brain neoplasms, and some forms of dementia. The applications being investigated, such as in vivo receptor labeling for benzodiazepines, serotonin, dopamine, and muscarinic receptors, may expand the clinical usefulness of this technique in the future."}
{"id": "7936057", "title": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia.", "content": "Cortical glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease without dementia. There have been several reports of decreased regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in Parkinson's disease (PD), although others find no differences between PD patients and controls. Differences in the cognitive status of the PD patients may account for some of these inconsistencies. We report the results of a PET study using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to measure rCMRglc in eight nondemented PD patients, six of whom were receiving dopaminergic medications, and eight age-matched control subjects. We scanned one tomographic level through the temporal lobes that included both temporal neocortex and mesial temporal cortex, and one tomographic level through the basal ganglia that included frontal and parietal cortex. Previously determined rate constants and an operational equation were used to determine rCMRglc. On average, rCMRglc values were 23% below control values for all regions studied, with the greatest differences in posterior brain regions (visual association cortex, primary visual cortex, and parietal cortex) and thalamus. These results indicate that PD patients may show neocortical hypometabolism, especially in posterior brain regions, in the absence of any demonstrable cognitive deficits."}
{"id": "7933720", "title": "Clinicopathological study on a case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease: in special reference to MRI, SPECT and neuropathological findings.", "content": "Clinicopathological study on a case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease: in special reference to MRI, SPECT and neuropathological findings. A case of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease with dementia and personality changes is described with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon emission tomography (SPECT) and neuropathological findings. MRI disclosed high signal areas in the cerebral white matter and the brain stem. SPECT showed a marked reduction of blood flow in the frontal cortex. Neuropathologically, multifocal necrotizing lesions with perivascular lymphocytic infiltration and glial proliferation were detected mainly in the brain stem, namely the midbrain and the pons. From these findings, it is suggested that mental disorders of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease are related to the secondary dysfunction of the frontal cortex due to the damage of the subcortical structures, mainly the brain stem."}
{"id": "7924055", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow patterns in patients with leukoaraiosis and lacunar infarction].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow patterns in patients with leukoaraiosis and lacunar infarction]. We compared the incidence of risk factors (such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hematocrit, atrial fibrillation) and local cerebral blood flow between patients with lacunar infarction associated with leukoaraiosis (LA) in the centrum semiovale (LACS) and those with periventricular white matter lesions (PVWMLs) on magnetic resonance imagings (MRI). Only atrial fibrillation was more frequently seen in LACS (p < 0.05), but the incidence of other risk factors for cerebrovascular disease was not different between the two patient groups. Demented patients were older than those with preserved intelligence in both groups. Local cerebral blood flow was compared between patients with and without dementia by single photon emission computed tomography using N-isopropyl-p-123I iodoamphetamine (IMP). The cerebral: cerebellar IMP uptake ratio (%) was used as a measure of relative cerebral perfusion. Compared with normal controls the demented patients with PVWMLs showed a significant reduction in local cerebral blood flow in the parietal area (p < 0.05) and the basal gray region (p < 0.05), and those with LACS in the frontal area (p < 0.05) and the basal gray region (p < 0.05). A significant positive correlation was found between local cerebral blood flow and dementia rating scales in the temporal and parietal areas in PVWMLs, and in the frontal area in LACS. These results suggest that most patients with LACS may represent vascular dementia of Binswanger type, and some demented patients with PVWMLs may have Alzheimer type dementia."}
{"id": "7893535", "title": "[A case of idiopathic superficial siderosis of the central nervous system].", "content": "[A case of idiopathic superficial siderosis of the central nervous system]. A 59-year-old man developed a staggering and wide based-gait in July 1990. Dysarthria, hearing loss, vexation and disturbance of memory appeared in January 1991. He consulted our clinic in May 1991, and cerebellar ataxia, neurogenic bladder, and cerebellar atrophy on brain CT were noted. Subsequently, he was followed as OPCA. Brain and spinal cord MRI (T2 and proton weighted images) revealed hypointensity on the surface of the Sylvian fissure, cerebellum, brainstem and spinal cord. We diagnosed this case as superficial siderosis because of the clinical course, i.e. cerebellar ataxia, dementia and sensorineural hearing impairment, and specific findings on MRI. We consider this case idiopathic superficial siderosis because the origin of the bleeding source was unknown. IMP-SPECT showed low perfusion in the cerebellum and frontal lobe where hemosiderin was heavily deposited. RI cisternography revealed a disturbance of CSF absorption even after 48 hours. The basic rhythm on EEG was slow alpha band with sporadic theta waves dominantly in the frontal lobe. His central conduction time on ABR and SEP was delayed, OKN was poorly elicited and ETT exhibited a staircase pattern. The physiological results as well as the clinical manifestations of the present case suggest that hemosiderin deposit on the surface of brain and spinal cord caused serious damage to the underlying structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7878321", "title": "[Subcortical dementia of the Neumann type. Contribution of diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Subcortical dementia of the Neumann type. Contribution of diagnostic imaging]. A 36 year-old patient presented with a dementia of frontal type, gait disturbances, incontinence and a pseudo-bulbar palsy, which caused death at age 40. Brain biopsy of the frontal lobe showed an extensive deep subcortical gliosis. A high level of GFAP was detected by immunoblotting in the biopsy. Clinical and neuropathological observations are similar to cases described as Neumann Progressive Subcortical Gliosis. Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography showed a bilateral frontotemporal hypoperfusion, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging large periventricular and subcortical hyperintensities in both hemispheres, the brainstem and the cerebellum. The hyperintensities on T2-weighted MR images might be related to the intense gliosis. The contribution of such imaging data to diagnosis must be confirmed by other clinico-pathological cases."}
{"id": "7866483", "title": "A study of regional cerebral blood flow using 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in elderly women with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type.", "content": "A study of regional cerebral blood flow using 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in elderly women with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type. Thirteen women with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) according to NINCDS-ADRDA and 21 age-matched control women, aged 75-96 years, were investigated with clinical examination, dementia rating scales and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HM-PAO) as a tracer of regional cortical blood flow. The aim was to study whether typical SPECT findings of SDAT were seen also in the very old having the disease for a longer period. Neuropsychological assessment with vocabulary and spatial tests was performed in the control women, and the results were divided in three subgroups, normal, borderline and abnormal. Regional perfusion values, expressed as a ratio between cortical and cerebellar HM-PAO uptake, were lower in frontal, temporoparietal and occipital cortices in SDAT patients than in controls. The SDAT patients had the lowest uptake in the posterior temporoparietal region (0.67 +/- 0.06) and the corresponding value in the controls (0.79 +/- 0.05) differed significantly, p < 0.0001. The interhemispheric ratio between right and left posterior temporoparietal regions was 0.99 +/- 0.05. Nine of the control women (43%) had pathological SPECT with hemispheric asymmetries in 6 cases and bilateral temporooccipital reductions in 3 women. The neuropsychological assessment matched the findings in 7 of these women. One of the control women was judged as pathological and 10 women as borderline according to the spatial and vocabulary tests. Four of the 10 women with borderline results had normal SPECT. The sensitivity of the assessment to detect abnormalities compared to SPECT was 78% if borderline and abnormal results were expressed as true-positive cases. The specificity was 67%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7847164", "title": "Cortical blood flow and cognition after extracranial-intracranial bypass in a patient with severe carotid occlusive lesions. A three-year follow-up study.", "content": "Cortical blood flow and cognition after extracranial-intracranial bypass in a patient with severe carotid occlusive lesions. A three-year follow-up study. The long-term effect of extra-intracranial arterial bypass on cerebral circulation was examined. Cortical blood flow and cognitive ability were evaluated pre- and up to 3 years post-bypass in a 58-years-old man with severe carotid occlusive lesions, who presented with 3 transient cerebral ischaemic attacks which resulted in mental deterioration over 3 years. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was evaluated pre- and up to 33 months post-bypass by 123Iodine N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) single-photon emission CT (SPECT). Mental abilities were evaluated before and up to 33 months after surgery by the Hasegawa's dementia rating scale (HDRS). Pre-operatively, cerebral angiography showed left carotid siphon occlusion and hypoplastic stenosis of left anterior cerebral artery with collaterals from the anterior communicating artery. CT and MRI showed left temporo-parietal borderzone infarction and an enhanced T 1 lesion by gadolinium-DTPA at left periventriculum. rCBF showed extensive hypoperfusion in left anterior-parieto-temporal-cortex. HDRS scores deteriorated apparently on days 3, 5, which recovered gradually on days 8, 10, 75 after onset of mental deterioration. A bypass was performed 4 months after onset. rCBF showed gradual recovery in the left anterior-parietal cortex up to 33 months after bypass. Semiquantitative rCBF showed gradual decreases of regional asymmetry after the bypass. HDRS scores returned to their maximum up to 37 months after onset. Three-year follow-up shows improved cortical rCBF and cognition after the bypass."}
{"id": "7847060", "title": "Quantitative SPECT cisternography in normal pressure hydrocephalus.", "content": "Quantitative SPECT cisternography in normal pressure hydrocephalus. Twenty-one patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), 8 patients with various brain diseases with an element of hydrocephalus, and 7 patients with miscellaneous dementia disorders were investigated with quantitative radionuclide cisternography (RC) using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). The total intracranial counts as well as the counts in the lateral and third ventricles were measured. All 15 NPH patients accessible for postoperative examination were improved after shunt surgery. In all groups the ventricular and total intracranial counts level increased during the measurement period but remained constant in distribution in each group. The NPH patients had a higher relative count value in the lateral and third ventricles compared to the patients with miscellaneous dementia disorders. The relative values in the third and lateral ventricles were predictive for the outcome of shunt surgery. Quantitative SPECT RC appears to be a useful diagnostic procedure in NPH investigations."}
{"id": "7842596", "title": "SPECT in adult mosaic Down's syndrome with early dementia.", "content": "SPECT in adult mosaic Down's syndrome with early dementia. A 52-year-old patient with mosaic Down's syndrome exhibiting clinical features of early dementia who underwent high resolution SPECT neuroimaging is reported. While a CT scan of the brain showed no abnormality, cranial SPECT confirmed the presence of marked cortical blood flow deficits."}
{"id": "7838445", "title": "A new method for the relative quantification of rCBF examined by 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT.", "content": "A new method for the relative quantification of rCBF examined by 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT. A new method for the analysis of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) studies, the 'Min-Max' method, was compared with the conventional method, the 'Average' method. Regional CBF was examined by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (99Tcm-HMPAO). The two methods were used to quantify the rCBF in a population of patients with various dementia disorders, and in healthy controls. Results from a phantom were also used. In the Average method the average counts per pixel (cp-1) within irregular manually drawn regions of interest (ROIs) was registered. In the Min-Max method the minimum cp-1 and maximum cp-1 within rectangular ROIs were registered for white and grey matter, respectively. The relative rCBF (rrCBF) was calculated as the ratio between the regional and cerebellar values. The Min-Max method gave systematically lower values for rrCBF in the white matter, in both clinical studies, and in the phantom, compared to the Average method. No difference was found in the grey matter results. The variability in rrCBF in the phantom study was greater with the Min-Max method than with the Average method, but this effect was counteracted in the clinical studies by a smaller interobserver error. The average regional differences between patients and controls appeared greater with the Min-Max method than with the Average method. The Min-Max method proved to be more simple to execute, involved a smaller observer error, and with respect to ability to distinguish patients with dementia disorders from controls, it appears to function at least as well as the accepted Average method."}
{"id": "7835102", "title": "Study of the external counterpulsation (ECP) therapy for senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT).", "content": "Study of the external counterpulsation (ECP) therapy for senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT). Ten patients with SDAT received the ECP therapy. The examination of Hasegawa's Dementia Scale (HDS), single photor emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging, and some biochemical parameters in blood and CSF were selected to evaluate the effect of ECP for SDAT. After ECP treatment, the average HDS score of the patients increased, the value of P was close to 0.05; and the cortical cerebellar ratios of SPECT brain scan, the superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and the concentrations of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SLI), dynorphin AL-13 (Dyn Al-13) in blood and/or CSF were significantly elevated. The results indicated that ECP could not only improve cerebral blood flow, but also make a notable impact on biological active substances in blood and CSF. It is suggested that ECP is beneficial to SDAT patients."}
{"id": "7834944", "title": "[A case of progressive supranuclear palsy showing improvement of rigidity, nuchal dystonia and autonomic failure with trazodone].", "content": "[A case of progressive supranuclear palsy showing improvement of rigidity, nuchal dystonia and autonomic failure with trazodone]. A 63-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with a 1,5-year history of progressive dementia, supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, pseudobulbar palsy, rigidity and dystonia in the neck and the upper trunk. Magnetic resonance imagings showed severe atrophy of the frontal lobe and the brainstem. He was diagnosed as having progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Rigidity, nuchal dystonia, frequent micturition, and profuse sweating ameliorated after trazodone administration. Furthermore, additional administration of L-dopa and droxidopa improved his pseudobulbar palsy, akinesia, and lack of initiative. Single photon emission tomography using IMP after medication showed increased IMP-uptake in the frontal areas and the basal ganglia compared with that before medication. This patient illustrates a substantial role of impairments in the serotonin system in the production of some PSP symptoms."}
{"id": "7830428", "title": "[A new kind of degenerative dementia. Localization, rather than type is significant in frontal lobe dementia].", "content": "[A new kind of degenerative dementia. Localization, rather than type is significant in frontal lobe dementia]."}
{"id": "7828614", "title": "HMPAO SPET and FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: comparison of perfusion and metabolic pattern.", "content": "HMPAO SPET and FDG PET in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia: comparison of perfusion and metabolic pattern. Positron emission tomography (PET) of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and single-photon emission tomography (SPET) of 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO) were performed under identical resting conditions within 3 h in 20 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 12 patients with vascular dementia (VD) and 13 normal persons. In the temporoparietal association cortex similar impairment of relative regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGl) and relative HMPAO uptake (rCBF) was found. In addition PET showed hypometabolism in the occipital association cortex. The functional pattern was condensed to a ratio of regional values of association areas divided by regional values of structures that are typically less affected by AD. In normals this ratio was significantly related to age for PET metabolic data (r = -0.66, P = 0.01). The ratio was significantly lower in AD than in VD and controls for both rCMRGl and rCBF. In AD only, the metabolic ratio was related to severity of dementia (r = 0.54, P = 0.003) and age (r = 0.64, P = 0.003). Metabolic differences between normals and AD patients were less obvious in old age. In contrast, there were no significant correlations between the perfusion ratio and severity of dementia or age. Comparing the metabolic and perfusion ratio by receiver operating characteristic curves, PET differentiated AD from normals only marginally better than SPET. Differentiation between AD and VD was much better achieved by PET. Our results suggest that both PET and SPET can distinguish AD patients from controls, whereas for differentiation between AD and VD SPET is of little value."}
{"id": "7828613", "title": "Assessment of cerebral perfusion with single-photon emission tomography in normal subjects and in patients with Alzheimer's disease: effects of region of interest selection.", "content": "Assessment of cerebral perfusion with single-photon emission tomography in normal subjects and in patients with Alzheimer's disease: effects of region of interest selection. The shape, size and location of regions of interest (ROIs) show considerable variability between single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies in aging and Alzheimer's disease, but the possible influence on study results remains unknown. We compared three different ROIs in a SPET study with 60 controls and in 48 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease diagnosed according to the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was assessed with SPET using technetium-99m d,l-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO), normalized to the mean activity in a cerebellar reference slice. The three different ROIs were: a multi-slice and a single-slice ROI with reference to the normal brain anatomy (using an anatomical atlas), and a rectangular (2 x 4 pixels) ROI in the frontal, temporal, temporoparietal and occipital cortices. No differences were observed for the means of rCBF values between the single-slice and multi-slice ROI's with reference to the normal anatomy, but some variability was present for individual comparisons. In contrast, significantly higher mean rCBF values were obtained with the single-slice rectangular ROIs in all four regions for both patients and controls and considerable variability was shown for individual subjects. After analysis with multivariate logistic regression and receiver operator characteristic curves, the ability of SPET to discriminate between controls and Alzheimer patients was similar in the three methods for mild and moderate Alzheimer patients (Global Deterioration Scale = GDS of 3 and 4). However, with increasing dementia severity (GDS > 4) the rectangular ROIs showed lower ability to discriminate between groups compared to the single-slice and multi-slice anatomically defined ROIs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7826713", "title": "[Results of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis for elderly and non-elderly patients with cerebral ischemia].", "content": "[Results of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis for elderly and non-elderly patients with cerebral ischemia]. A study was performed to compare the follow-up results of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis between a group of nine elderly patients (aged 70 years or over) and another group of 24 non-elderly patients (aged less than 70 years) with cerebral ischemia. The 33 patients, comprising 26 males and seven females, were evaluated pre- and postoperatively by four-vessel angiography, CT scan, MRI and cerebral blood flow (CBF) examination using either xenon inhalation or 123I-IMP SPECT. In some patients, additional evaluations were done. For those with dementia, the minimental scale (MMS), P300 event-related potential, the Hachinski ischemia score, and the vowel word counting test (Kaneko's KANAHIROI) were used, and for the hemiplegic, the Barthel index indicating ability of daily life (ADL) was employed. The results of follow-up for periods ranging from 12 to 55 months were \"excellent\" (returned to previous job) or \"good\" (able to perform self-care) in 27 of the 33 patients (81.8%) including six (66.6%) of the elderly group and 21 (87.5%) of the non-elderly group. There was no significant difference between the two groups by statistical evaluation. Among the nine patients with dementia (five under 70, four 70 years of age or over), eight (four under 70, four 70 or over) showed \"rapid recovery\" with improved postoperative MMS, P300, vowel word counting score and CBF. One patient under 70 (Case 5; a 47-year-old male) with a delayed 2-day recovery from general anesthesia, took as long as 6 months to obtain the self-care ability in daily life. Excluding this patient, all of the remaining eight patients responded quickly to surgery and were able to go home with their families after 2 to 4 weeks, there being no significant difference between the two age groups. In the 14 patients with hemiplegia/paresis (nine under 70, five 70 or over), a definitely better result was obtained for the non-elderly group. Eight of the nine non-elderly patients (89%) showed full ADL (Barthel index 100), whereas only one of three elderly patients (33.3%) showed almost full ADL (Barthel index 97). In five progressive stroke patients, (three under 70, two 70 or over) ultra-early bypass was performed within 8 hours postictus. Definitely better results were obtained in the patients aged less than 70, who showed rapid recovery and were able to return to their previous jobs 1 to 3 months after surgery. In contrast, the two patients aged 70 or over showed no improvement. In this report, we discuss the clinical and physiological variables that may be important for selection of elderly patients for cerebrovascular bypass surgery."}
{"id": "7817203", "title": "Radiopharmaceuticals for brain imaging.", "content": "Radiopharmaceuticals for brain imaging. Brain imaging is performed using radiopharmaceuticals by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET). SPECT and PET radiopharmaceuticals are classified according to blood-brain-barrier permeability, cerebral perfusion and metabolism receptor-binding, and antigen-antibody binding. The blood-brain-barrier (BBB) SPECT agents, such as 99mTcO4-, [99mTc]DTPA, 201TI and [67Ga]citrate are excluded by normal brain cells, but enter into tumor cells because of altered BBB. These agents were used in the earlier period for the detection of brain tumors. SPECT perfusion agents such as [123I]IMP, [99mTc]HMPAO, [99mTc]ECD are lipophilic agents and therefore, diffuse into the normal brain. These tracers have been successfully used to detect various cerebrovascular diseases such as stroke, Parkinson disease, Huntington's disease, epilepsy, dementia, and psychiatric disorders. Xenon-133 and radiolabeled microspheres have been used for the measurement of cerebral blood flow (CBF). Important receptor-binding SPECT radiopharmaceuticals include [123I]QNE, [123I]IBZM, and [123I]iomazenil. These tracers bind to specific receptors in the brain, thus displaying their distribution in various receptor-related cerebral diseases. Radioiodinated monoclonal antibodies were used for the detection of brain tumors. PET radiopharmaceuticals for brain imaging are commonly labeled with positron-emitters such as 11C, 13N, 15O, and 18F, although other radionuclides such as 82Rb, 62Cu and 68Ga also were used. The brain uptake of [13N]glutamate, [68Ga]EDTA and [82Rb]RbCl depends on the BBB permeability, but these are rarely used for brain imaging. Several cerebral perfusion agents have been introduced, of which [15O]water, [13N]ammonia, and [15O]butanol have been used more frequently. Regional CBF has been quantitated by using these tracers in normal and different cerebral disease states. Other perfusion agents include [15O]O2, [11C]CO, [11C]CO2, [18F]fluoromethane, [15O]O2, [11C]butanol, and [62Cu]PTSM. Among the PET cerebral metabolic agents, [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is most commonly used to detect metabolic abnormalities in the brain. Various brain tumors have been graded by [18F]FDG PET. This technique was used to detect epileptic foci by showing increased uptake in the foci during the ictal period and decreased uptake in the interictal period. Differentiation between recurrent tumors and radiation necrosis and the detection of Alzheimer's disease have been made successfully by [18F]FDG PET. Other PET metabolic agents such as [11C]deoxyglucose, and [11C]methylmethionine have drawn attention in the detection of brain tumors. [18F]fluorodopa is a cerebral neurotransmitter agent, which has been found very useful in the detection of Parkinson disease that shows reduced uptake of the tracer in the striatum of the brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7805320", "title": "Bilateral cerebral mediofrontal hypoactivity in Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT imaging.", "content": "Bilateral cerebral mediofrontal hypoactivity in Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT imaging. Fifteen patients who had bilateral mediofrontal hypoactivity and 30 control subjects without this SPECT anomaly underwent Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT imaging. Bilateral mediofrontal hypoactivity was found in various neurologic disorders, including subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy, lacunar state, chronic alcoholism, progressive nonvascular dementia, carbon monoxide poisoning, and diabetes mellitus. This SPECT abnormality was, however, specifically associated with three clinical signs: motor disabilities predominating in the lower limbs, urinary incontinence, and akinetic mutism."}
{"id": "7803056", "title": "[Posterior cortical dementia].", "content": "[Posterior cortical dementia]. Two patients, aged 59 and 73 years, presented with the clinical syndrome of Posterior Cortical Dementia (PCD). Follow-up during 3 and 11 years confirmed the progressive nature of the disorder. Posterior cerebral impairment was seen on SPECT studies. Neuroimaging studies showed an early dilatation of the right occipital ventricular horn which predominated over the cortical atrophy. This kind of cerebral atrophy could identify a subset of PCD cases that may be unrelated to Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "7803054", "title": "[Alien limb behavior associated with Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Alien limb behavior associated with Alzheimer's disease]. A 48-year-old female developed apraxia, followed by aphasia and dementia. Clinical examination also showed an alien member sign, supranuclear gaze paresis, myoclonus and rigidity on the right arm. The examination of the frontal lobe biopsy showed typical lesions of Alzheimer's disease as the only neuropathological abnormality. The association of this clinical syndrome with Alzheimer's pathology is unusual."}
{"id": "7798973", "title": "White matter magnetic resonance hyperintensities in dementia of the Alzheimer type: morphological and regional cerebral blood flow correlates.", "content": "White matter magnetic resonance hyperintensities in dementia of the Alzheimer type: morphological and regional cerebral blood flow correlates. In a prospective MRI study the presence, appearance, volume, and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) correlates of periventricular hyperintensities (PVHs) and deep white matter hyperintensities (DWMHs) were examined in 18 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease and in 10 age matched healthy control subjects, all without major cerbrovascular risk factors. The 133Xe inhalation method and the [99mTc]-d,l-hexamethyl-propylene-amine-oxime (HMPAO) technique with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were used to measure rCBF. Rating scores for PVHs were significantly higher in the Alzheimer's disease group (p < 0.01) and correlated significantly with the volume of ventricles (p < 0.05) and with systolic arterial blood pressure (p < 0.01), but not with rCBF. By contrast, there was no significant difference in the rating scores or volumes of DWMHs between the two groups, although three patients had extensive DWMH lesions in the central white matter. In the group of patients with Alzheimer's disease as a whole, the volume of DWMHs correlated well with rCBF in the hippocampal region ( r = -0.72; p < 0.001), but not with frontal, temporal, parietal, or occipital rCBF. Postmortem histopathology of extensive DWMH lesions in one patient with definite Alzheimer's disease showed a partial loss of myelin and astrocytic gliosis, but no ischaemic changes. It is concluded that DWMH lesions may be associated with reduced rCBF in the hippocampal region. The heterogenous topography of neocortical rCBF deficits in Alzheimer's disease could not be explained by deafferentation from underlying white matter hyperintensities and therefore may reflect variations in the topography of cortical abnormalities."}
{"id": "7729100", "title": "[A case with clinical features of progressive supranuclear palsy with apraxia--corticobasal degeneration?].", "content": "[A case with clinical features of progressive supranuclear palsy with apraxia--corticobasal degeneration?]. We report a 65-year-old female who have suffered from progressive gait disturbance for 3 years, followed by disorientation and forgetfulness. Neurological examination revealed dementia, constructional disability, limb kinetic apraxia, supranuclear gaze palsy, especially on downward gaze, symmetrical muscle rigidity and bradykinesia. Involuntary movements were undetectable. Brain MRI showed significant brain atrophy in the left fronto-parietal lobe. The three-dimensional surface display with 131I-IMP demonstrated decreased cerebral blood flow in the left frontoparietal cortex. The diagnosis of this case is discussed with regard to either progressive supranuclear palsy or corticobasal degeneration or both."}
{"id": "7659917", "title": "[Prefrontal dementias: clinical features and SPECT in 6 cases].", "content": "[Prefrontal dementias: clinical features and SPECT in 6 cases]. Six patients with primary degenerative dementias and frontal or frontotemporal hypoperfusion are reported. Five were diagnosed as Frontal Progressive Dementia (FPD), characterized by striking changes in personality and social behavior. The last patient had a progressive aphasia and a moderate cognitive impairment. We discuss the heterogeneity of FPD that includes Pick's disease, frontal lobe type dementia (Neary) and progressive subcortical gliosis. The usefulness of SPECT and the need of a brain bank are remarked."}
{"id": "7522145", "title": "Neurophysiology and SPECT cerebral blood flow patterns in dementia.", "content": "Neurophysiology and SPECT cerebral blood flow patterns in dementia. A series of elderly patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (AD), multi-infarct dementia (MID) and functional (non-organic) psychiatric illness (major depressive disorder) were selected by DSM III-R criteria and had the following investigations: a battery of cognitive tests, EEG with power and coherence spectral analyses of T4-T6, T3-T5, P4-O2, P3-O1 channels, visual evoked potential (flash and pattern reversal) and P300 recordings as well as single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using 99mTc HMPAO. Three subsets of patients were chosen on clinical and SPECT criteria. These were as follows: patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD and a SPECT rCBF pattern showing bilateral temporo-parietal perfusion deficits (AD type), patients with a clinical diagnosis of MID and a SPECT rCBF pattern showing single focal perfusion deficits or multiple areas of low perfusion in the cerebral cortex suggestive of ischaemic change (MID type SPECT picture) and functionally ill patients with normal rCBF (controls). The AD type group differed from the MID rCBF group in having significantly less alpha and more delta 2 (2- < 4 Hz) power. The latter had significantly lower alpha power than the controls. The 2 dementia groups with abnormal rCBF patterns did not differ in terms of coherence spectra or P300 latencies, but both had lower within and between hemisphere alpha coherence values and longer P300 latencies than the \"controls\" with normal rCBF. There were no group differences in the flash VEP P2-pattern reversal P100 latency difference values."}
{"id": "8509780", "title": "High resolution SPECT with [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO in normal pressure hydrocephalus before and after shunt operation.", "content": "High resolution SPECT with [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO in normal pressure hydrocephalus before and after shunt operation. Cranial CT and high resolution measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with brain dedicated single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) and [99mTc]-d,l-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime ([99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO) were performed before and after shunt operation in 14 consecutive patients with dementia and normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). When compared with a control group of 14 age matched healthy volunteers, the group of NPH patients was characterised by an enlarged subcortical low-flow region, significantly reduced rCBF and enhanced side-to-side asymmetry of rCBF in the central white matter, and enhanced side-to-side asymmetry in the inferior and mid-temporal cortex. Global CBF was normal. Shunt operation reduced the mean area of the ventricles on CT and of the subcortical low-flow region on SPECT. Global CBF was unchanged. All 14 patients had an abnormal pre-shunt rCBF pattern with enlargement of the subcortical low flow region, focal cortical blood flow deficits, or both. Shunt operation improved the clinical status in 11 patients, and the area of the subcortical low flow region correctly classified 3/3 unimproved and 10/11 improved patients. Shunt operation normalised or reduced the area of the subcortical low flow region in nine of 10 patients. It is concluded that SPECT with [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO is a useful supplement in the diagnosis of NPH versus normal ageing, and that SPECT may help to identify patients not likely to benefit clinically from surgery."}
{"id": "8507902", "title": "Clinical features, diagnosis, and imaging of parkinsonian syndromes.", "content": "Clinical features, diagnosis, and imaging of parkinsonian syndromes. The differential diagnosis of parkinsonian syndromes continues to challenge clinicians. The clinical diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease is correct in only about three quarters of cases when reevaluated neuropathologically, emphasizing the need for more discriminative diagnostic criteria. The clinical spectrum of brain stem Lewy body idiopathic Parkinson's disease itself may be heterogeneous, including dementing and nondementing, familial and sporadic, and levodopa-responsive and -nonresponsive subgroups. Recent clinicopathologic evidence suggests that other parkinsonian syndromes such as progressive supranuclear palsy may also be neuropathologically heterogeneous. Pharmacologic criteria of dopaminergic responsiveness have no absolute power of differentiating between idiopathic Parkinson's disease and other parkinsonian disorders, although an absent response argues against idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The best diagnostic imaging criteria still come from positron emission tomography studies of the functional integrity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, but more widely applicable techniques are needed. Promising perspectives for this have come form studies of D2-receptor binding with iodobenzamide single photon emission computed tomography in parkinsonian syndromes."}
{"id": "8506015", "title": "[Membranous lipodystrophy (Nasu-Hakola disease)].", "content": "[Membranous lipodystrophy (Nasu-Hakola disease)]. We present a case-report and review of the literature on membranous lipodystrophy. This is a rare disease characterized by progressive presenile dementia, multiple bone cysts with pathologic fractures, generalized cerebral seizures with abnormal EEG and bilateral calcifications of the basal ganglia. Neuropathological findings are neuroaxonal dystrophy with neurofilaments in the axons, neuronal cell loss and fibrillary gliosis. The disease is usually inherited as an autosomal recessive. The pathogenesis is unknown but is believed to be an enzyme defect of the glycolipid metabolism."}
{"id": "8491848", "title": "Anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease: relationships to depression, cognitive function, and cerebral perfusion.", "content": "Anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease: relationships to depression, cognitive function, and cerebral perfusion. Awareness of memory loss was rated in 57 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease, and analyzed in relation to neuropsychological tests and presence of depression. Single photon emission computed tomography measures of regional cerebral blood flow were obtained on an unselected subsample of 20. Anosognosia was associated with diminished relative right dorsolateral frontal lobe perfusion and with high rates of false positive errors on recognition memory testing. Less aware patients did not differ from others on learning or recall scores, or on dementia severity as measured by mental status scores. Neither anosognosia nor depression was associated with disease duration or dementia severity and patients who were aware of their memory loss were no more likely than others to be depressed. This is further evidence that dementia severity alone does not account for anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease; frontal lobe involvement and the presence of specific memory impairments may be important determining factors."}
{"id": "8491227", "title": "Technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime single photon emission tomography of the brain in early Parkinson's disease: correlation with dementia and lateralization.", "content": "Technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime single photon emission tomography of the brain in early Parkinson's disease: correlation with dementia and lateralization. Regional cerebral blood flow was assessed in 19 patients with early idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and 12 control subjects of similar age by single-photon emission tomography using technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (HMPAO). Of the patients with PD, seven were mildly demented and 15 presented with hemiparkinsonism. Mean HMPAO cortical or basal ganglia/cerebellum activity ratios were calculated. Mean cortical and regional uptake ratios in non-demented PD patients were not significantly different from values in the controls. In contrast, besides generalized cortical hypoperfusion, demented PD patients had significantly lower HMPAO uptake in the frontal and basal ganglia regions than non-demented patients. These observations support the hypothesis of impaired neuronal activity in both cortical and subcortical regions of the brain in demented PD patients. In hemiparkinsonian patients, the only asymmetrical finding was a relative hypoperfusion in the contralateral parietal region. This may be due to deafferentation of the thalamoparietal pathways. The lack of asymmetrical uptake in basal ganglia in our PD patients may be explained by their staging at the time of the investigation (stage I and II, Hoehn and Yahr scale)."}
{"id": "8482030", "title": "A comparative I-123 IMP SPECT study in Binswanger's disease and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A comparative I-123 IMP SPECT study in Binswanger's disease and Alzheimer's disease. The regional cerebral blood flow in 31 patients was semiquantitatively measured with SPECT using N-isopropyl iodo-amphetamine (I-123 IMP). Of the 31 patients, 9 had Binswanger's disease (BD) (mean age: 64.2 years), 10 had Alzheimer's disease (AD) (mean age: 66.8 years), and 12 were neurologically normal (mean age: 67.8 years). Tracer activity was determined in 7 pairs of cerebellar, cortical, and subcortical regions and was expressed as two ratios: the activity in each region of interest (ROI) compared to the mean count in the cerebellar region (ROI/CER ratio) and compared to the mean count in the occipital cortex (ROI/OCC ratio). Patients with BD showed a reduction of the ROI/CER ratio in the temporal cortex, thalamus, and basal ganglia compared to normal subjects. However, the ROI/CER ratio for the occipital region was higher than that of normal controls, suggesting that cerebellar blood flow was reduced in patients with BD. AD patients showed a decreased ROI/CER ratio in the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. Both BD and AD patients showed decreased ROI/OCC ratios in all the cortical and subcortical regions compared to the neurologically normal patients. In BD patients, the most marked reduction of both ratios was found in the thalamus, while for AD patients the most prominent reduction was seen in the parietal cortex. Our results indicate that these two types of dementia show characteristic regional cerebral blood flow patterns, which may be associated with their clinical features."}
{"id": "8481422", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type. In the normal brain as well as in Alzheimer's disease (AD), regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) is coupled to metabolic demand and, therefore, changes in CBF reflect variations in neuronal metabolism. The use of radionuclide techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), provides an accurate assessment of regional functional activity, i.e., CBF and metabolism, and could be very helpful for the differential diagnosis of AD. This disease is characterized by a decrease in global CBF and metabolism. When found, a symmetric bi-parieto-temporal CBF reduction is highly diagnostic for AD, despite the fact that a similar CBF pattern could also be observed in other types of dementia. Many AD patients with parieto-temporal flow reduction also have a diffuse flow reduction in the frontal cortical areas, particularly in advanced stages of the disease. Lateral CBF asymmetry is also very frequent; speech disorders are highly characteristic of left-sided flow reduction, while visuospatial apraxia is dominating in the right-sided cases. In advanced and severe cases of AD, CBF and metabolism tend to be more uniformly reduced throughout the cortex, sparing only the primary visual and sensory-motor cortices. PET and SPECT measurement of brain perfusion and metabolism has added a new dimension to the knowledge of dementia disorders, with a better differential diagnosis between AD and other forms of dementia. The correlation with neuropsychological data has also given new insight into the disease."}
{"id": "8468804", "title": "[A case of Down's syndrome with progressive dementia of Alzheimer type].", "content": "[A case of Down's syndrome with progressive dementia of Alzheimer type]. A rare case of Down's syndrome complicated with progressive dementia of Alzheimer type in a 41-year-old man was reported. On 123I-IMP SPECT, the patient revealed symmetrical bilateral temporo-parietal hypoperfusion. This finding seemed to support the developing dementia of Alzheimer type on the basis of clinical manifestations. 123I-IMP SPECT seemed to be useful for early diagnosis of Alzheimer-like change in a natural course of Down's syndrome."}
{"id": "8462221", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT in dementia due to transitory obstructive hydrocephalus.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT in dementia due to transitory obstructive hydrocephalus."}
{"id": "8461238", "title": "Cerebrocerebellar relationships in normal subjects and patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type: a SPECT study.", "content": "Cerebrocerebellar relationships in normal subjects and patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type: a SPECT study. The relationships between blood flow in the cerebrum and the cerebellum was investigated in 21 normal subjects and 21 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). In normal subjects, only asymmetry in the frontal cortical blood flow was significantly correlated with asymmetry in the contralateral cerebellar blood flow. However, a significant correlation between asymmetry in the cerebral cortical blood flow in many areas and the blood flow in the contralateral cerebellum in DAT patients was observed. These results suggest the existence of a functional relationship between the cerebrum and the cerebellum in both normal and DAT groups, mediated by neuronal mechanisms through crossed fiber pathways. However, there are regional differences in the cerebrocerebellar relationship in normal resting and pathological states."}
{"id": "8421735", "title": "Brain blood flow in the dementias: SPECT with histopathologic correlation.", "content": "Brain blood flow in the dementias: SPECT with histopathologic correlation. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of regional cerebral blood flow (RCBF) has been employed experimentally in the assessment of patients with dementia. The standard with which the SPECT diagnosis has been compared previously has been the initial clinical diagnosis. Recognizing that histopathologic diagnosis would be a more reliable standard, the authors compared SPECT diagnoses and clinical diagnoses with histopathologic diagnoses in a series of 18 patients who had been referred by the Alzheimer Disease Research Center. SPECT RCBF studies were carried out prospectively in 15 patients with an inhaled xenon-133 SPECT technique and in three patients with technetium-99m hexamethyl-propylene-amine oxime and triple-camera-scanner SPECT. When compared with histopathologic diagnosis, clinical diagnosis was correct in 15 of 18 patients; visual scanning diagnosis, in 13 of 18; and Xe-133-SPECT diagnosis based on quantitative ratios in regions of interest, in 14 of 15 (13 of 13 with Alzheimer disease)."}
{"id": "8420174", "title": "Chronic dementia in Parkinson's disease treated by anticholinergic agents. Neuropsychological and neuroradiological examination.", "content": "Chronic dementia in Parkinson's disease treated by anticholinergic agents. Neuropsychological and neuroradiological examination. Reports about chronic-onset dementia due to ACA have been rare. Here we described five patients with chronic dementia induced by ACA. We examined their clinical aspect, neuropsychological aspect, and neuroradiological aspect in detail. Our study suggests the possibility of ACA-induced chronic-onset dementia in PD patients."}
{"id": "8419719", "title": "Reversible dementias.", "content": "Reversible dementias. With so many conditions that can manifest in dementia, the question arises as to how extensive an evaluation need be done on the individual patient presenting with dementia. Thorough physical, neurologic, and psychiatric examinations are the cornerstones of the work-up, with special attention paid to the history, use of medications, and mental status of the patient. Laboratory tests recommended by the National Institutes of Health Consensus Conference on Differential Diagnosis of Dementing Diseases include a complete blood count, electrolyte and metabolic screen, thyroid panel, vitamin B12 and folate levels, syphilis serology, urinalysis, chest radiograph and electrocardiogram, and head CT scan. These evaluations are sufficient to diagnose the majority of treatable dementias. Other evaluations including magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, cerebrospinal fluid examination, cerebral blood flow and metabolism measures (rate of cerebral blood flow, single photon emission computed tomography, and positron-emission tomography), and brain biopsy all can be of additional assistance in diagnosing the cause of the dementia when justified by the clinical setting. When the appropriate diagnosis is made, therapy is directed at the primary disorder. Successful treatment of the primary condition may result in stabilization or partial or complete reversal of the cognitive disturbance. In some instances, judicious pharmacologic management of the accompanying behavioral disturbance may be required."}
{"id": "8411781", "title": "CNS changes in DRPLA with dementia and personality changes: CT, MR and SPECT findings.", "content": "CNS changes in DRPLA with dementia and personality changes: CT, MR and SPECT findings. CNS changes in a case of DRPLA associated with dementia and personality changes were observed by CT, MR and SPECT. Brain CT and MR of the patient revealed progressive cortical atrophy which was recognized in parallel with the clinical course of the progression of dementia and personality changes. SPECT using 123I-iodoamphetamine (IMP) disclosed a diffuse low perfusion of the cerebral cortex, especially in the frontal and temporal lobes. These findings suggest that the dementia and personality changes in this case might be concerned with a dysfunction of the cerebral cortex."}
{"id": "8410013", "title": "Familial progressive aphasia: its relationship to other forms of lobar atrophy.", "content": "Familial progressive aphasia: its relationship to other forms of lobar atrophy. Two brothers presented with slowly progressive aphasia. One brother, who became behaviourally disturbed only at the end of his illness, was found at necropsy to have predominant left frontotemporal atrophy. The other brother developed severe behavioural disturbances shortly after the onset of language impairment. His brain revealed bilateral frontotemporal atrophy. In both there was non-Alzheimer's disease pathology with the histological features of loss of large cortical nerve cells, spongiform change and mild gliosis. The differential anatomical atrophy supports the view that clinical manifestations of lobar atrophy are dictated by the topographical distribution of a common underlying pathology, linking the syndromes of progressive aphasia to dementia of frontal lobe type (DFT) and DFT with motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "8401781", "title": "Presenile dementia with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Presenile dementia with motor neuron disease. Seventy-one Japanese cases of presenile dementia with motor neuron disease were reviewed. The clinico-pathological features were: (1) progressive dementia with insidious onset, mostly in the presenile period: (2) neurogenic muscular wasting in the course of illness (ALS- or SPMA-like symptoms); (3) duration from the onset of the illness to death: 2-5 years (average 30.6 months); (4) extrapyramidal symptoms and definite sensory deficits are less commonly present; (5) no characteristic abnormalities in the CSF or EEG; (6) no known consanguinity or familial occurrence; (7) non-specific mild to moderate degenerative changes in the fronto-temporal cerebral cortex, hypoglossal nuclei and spinal cord, and frequently in the substantia nigra. The author was interested in discovering whether the frequency and topology of lesions in the brain of patients with presenile dementia and motor neuron disease differed characteristically from the distribution found in cases of Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or progressive subcortical gliosis. Presenile dementia with motor neuron disease might be a new disease entity."}
{"id": "8397758", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in dementia: relationship of perfusion to cognitive deficits.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in dementia: relationship of perfusion to cognitive deficits. Sixteen patients with dementia (nine with Alzheimer's disease and seven with multi-infarct dementia) were studied with xenon-133 and hexamethyl-propyleneamine-oxime single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Quantification of cerebral blood flow was determined in 16 hemispheric regions of interest. Neuropsychological deficits were assessed with the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Neurobehavior Cognitive Status Examination. Alzheimer's disease patients had symmetric reduction of parietal lobe perfusion; multi-infarct dementia patients had multifocal perfusion deficits. Correlations were demonstrated between cerebral blood flow in the posterior brain regions and performance on tests of language, memory, attention, figure copying, judgment, and similarities. Alzheimer's disease patients exhibited more language impairment than multi-infarct dementia patients. SPECT promises to provide diagnostic information and data relevant to interpretation of neuropsychological deficits."}
{"id": "8394604", "title": "Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy with dementia.", "content": "Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy with dementia. To provide new insights into metabolic changes in the brain of patients with dementia, we performed in vivo localized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in nine patients with primary degenerative dementia and in three patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus. We compared the results with those in 26 healthy volunteers. Measurements of regional cerebral blood flow were performed in seven patients by means of single photon emission computed tomography with amphetamine I 123 as a tracer. The magnetic resonance spectra constantly showed three major peaks corresponding to N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine and phosphocreatine (Cr), and choline-containing compounds. There were no age-related changes in the mean area ratio of NAA to Cr in neurologically normal volunteers. The NAA/Cr ratio was significantly reduced in patients with primary degenerative dementia. The reduction of the NAA/Cr ratio was observed even in dementia patients with no significant brain atrophy or reduction in regional cerebral blood flow. No significant reduction of the NAA/Cr ratio was seen in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus. The NAA/Cr ratio might reflect the number and/or activity of neuronal cells in the brain. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy may well provide a useful tool for early detection of, and further pathophysiological study of, primary degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "8371888", "title": "Alterations in regional cerebral blood flow, with increased temporal interhemispheric asymmetries, in the normal elderly: an HMPAO SPECT study.", "content": "Alterations in regional cerebral blood flow, with increased temporal interhemispheric asymmetries, in the normal elderly: an HMPAO SPECT study. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the tracer 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) provides images allowing semiquantitative estimation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Despite its widespread use there is little data on patterns of rCBF obtained using this tracer in normal elderly subjects, although other methods of measurement suggest a fall in cerebral blood flow with age. Furthermore, the detection of interhemispheric asymmetries on HMPAO SPECT is often used to identify areas of pathological abnormality yet there is little data on the prevalence of asymmetries in the normal elderly. An increased prevalence of asymmetries in the elderly may explain the difficulties recently reported in using functional imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia. Patterns of HMPAO uptake were compared in 10 young (mean age 24.9 years; range 21-34 years) and 10 elderly (mean age 74.1 years; range 70-76 years) normal subjects. Percentage interhemispheric asymmetry ratios were calculated and found to be greater in the elderly, particularly for the temporal cortex (young 0.87%, elderly 3.73%, P < 0.001). The proportion of injected HMPAO taken up by the head was 29% higher in the younger age group. Analysis of regional uptake revealed that this trend towards reduced uptake in the elderly was a global phenomenon affecting all brain regions. The increased interhemispheric asymmetries seen in the elderly imply that a higher threshold for interpreting asymmetries as abnormal must be used in the elderly, particularly for the temporal cortex."}
{"id": "8351013", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomographic investigation of patients with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomographic investigation of patients with motor neuron disease. To investigate the correlation between involvement of the CNS in motor neuron disease (MND) and neuroimaging abnormalities, we studied 18 patients with MND by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and MRI. Patients were divided into four groups according to the results of SPECT. Group 1 consisted of four patients with reduced isotope uptake in the frontal lobe, including the motor area, and in the anterior part of the temporal lobe; group 2 consisted of two patients with reduced isotope uptake in the motor area spreading to the adjacent frontal lobe; group 3 consisted of eight patients with reduced isotope uptake confined to the motor area; and group 4 consisted of four patients without reduced isotope uptake. We found dementia in group 1, borderline dementia in group 2, and no cognitive deficit in group 3 or four. MRI demonstrated enhanced T2-weighted signals along the pyramidal tract in eight patients, but this finding also existed in some control subjects. SPECT appears useful in identifying the location of cortical neuronal degeneration in patients with MND."}
{"id": "8337557", "title": "[Heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease]. Despite the original distinction between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and senile dementia, both are currently considered to be one single disease based on their common neuropathological findings. We have reviewed the literature to investigate whether there is proof to assume the existence of subgroups of AD. Historically, there is a division based on the age at onset. Although typical cortical symptoms may be more prominent in early onset cases they may be encountered in senile cases too. Cortical neuronal loss may be more severe in early onset patients, but hippocampal neuronal loss is equally severe in both groups. In older patients cerebral reserve is reduced by age-related neuronal loss and a small amount of AD-type lesions might be sufficient to cause dementia. Aphasia has been proposed as indicator of a subgroup. However, it probably occurs in all AD patients when the cortical degenerative process progresses. AD cases presenting with aphasia are rare and more often prove to be Pick's disease or primary progressive aphasia. Extrapyramidal signs are present in 25% of patients without neuroleptics and in 90% of all patients. They are usually of mild intensity, appear during the course of the disease and are found to be of extranigral origin. Myoclonus may also be encountered at any stage, although more frequent in early onset AD. Its presence is often associated with a more progressive course. Most AD cases are sporadic and some are familial, suggesting an autosomal dominant transmission. Molecular genetics reveals that some patients with familial early-onset AD have a mutation on chromosome 21. Other genes, probably on chromosome 19, may be associated with late onset familial cases, suggesting heterogeneity in familial AD. White matter involvement on computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging has been reported to be more prominent in a subgroup of AD patients, with later onset and confusional symptoms. The typical bilateral temporo-parietal hypometabolism on positron emission tomography and hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography, is not found in all AD cases but may be indicative of a subgroup. Based on this review of the literature one homogeneous subgroup emerges: \"probable\" AD patients displaying memory disturbances with predominant cortical signs (especially aphasia), with a low prevalence of confusion and white matter involvement, exhibiting symptoms at a relatively early age but not exclusively below 65 years, and with a higher prevalence of genetic predisposition and more widespread neuropathological lesions at postmortem examination."}
{"id": "8337373", "title": "Spect brain imaging in neurologic disease.", "content": "Spect brain imaging in neurologic disease. In recent years cerebral SPECT imaging is rapidly evolving as a clinical tool in the evaluation of a variety of neurologic disorders. In large part, the major advances in brain imaging which have occurred in the last four years are related to new developments in instrumentation and radiopharmaceuticals. In particular, the increased availability of multidetector and dedicated ring detector systems has given rise to improved image resolution and more rapid patient throughput. Advances in the field of radiopharmaceutical development, particularly as it pertains to perfusion brain SPECT agents, has also contributed to the advances in the field. As a result of these developments, there has been an expanded interest in and use of brain SPECT imaging procedures in the evaluation of cerebrovascular disease, dementia, epilepsy, and head trauma."}
{"id": "8334775", "title": "[An autopsy case with recent memory disturbance, characterized by localized atrophy of parahippocampal gyrus, subiculum and amygdala].", "content": "[An autopsy case with recent memory disturbance, characterized by localized atrophy of parahippocampal gyrus, subiculum and amygdala]. We reported an autopsy case with recent memory disturbance, characterized by localized atrophy of parahippocampal gyrus, subiculum and amygdala. This patient initially exhibited recent memory disturbance at the age of 73. She was disoriented to time and place and immediately forgot having had a meal. At the age of 75, she was hospitalized because of progressive forgetfulness and congestive heart failure. One year later, she was admitted to our medical center. On admission, she was alert, but showed severe recent memory disturbance and disorientation to time and place. By contrast, she had neither aphasia nor apraxia. No other neurological symptoms were found. Brain CT showed localized atrophy of the medial part of bilateral temporal lobes and brain SPECT (123I-IMP) revealed a decrease of cerebral blood flow in the same regions. We considered her as early stage of Alzheimer type dementia (ATD) clinically. She died of pneumonia and DIC at the age of 78. Her illness lasted about 5 years. General autopsy showed prolapse of mitral valves, bronchopneumonia and DIC. The brain weighed 1,150 gm. Coronal sections of the brain revealed locarized atrophy of bilateral mediobasal part of the temporal lobes including the rostral parahippocampal gyrus, subiculum and amygdala. There were severe neuronal loss with astrogliosis and a few neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) in the rostral para-hippocampus, CA1 of the hippocampal formation, prosubiculum and amygdala. There were neither senile plaques (SP) nor NFT in the cerebral neocortex. This case lacked neocortical SP and NFT and showed bilateral localized atrophy of rostral parahippocampal gyrus, CA1, subiculum and related structure of the ventromedial temporal lobe with severe neuronal loss and astrogliosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8334774", "title": "[Clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (CBD)].", "content": "[Clinically diagnosed corticobasal degeneration (CBD)]. We reported a 67-year-old male, who suffered from apraxia and amnesia for 2 years and for muscle rigidity of right extremities for a year. Neurological examination revealed dysarthria, dysphagia, marked dystonia of right arm, hyperreflexia of all limbs and ataxic gait. He also had dementia and many other higher cortical dysfunction mostly due to left hemisphere damage. No impairment of eye movement was disclosed. Brain MRI as well as CT showed the significant brain atrophy in the left parieto-occipital region. A degenerative atrophy was suspected by 123I-IMP-SPECT and 18F-FDG-PET. By FDG-PET, the decrease of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism was detected not only affected unilateral cerebral cortex including primary motor area but ipsilateral basal ganglia and thalamus. Although, it is difficult to distinguish clinically CBD from atypical case of Alzheimer's disease, we speculated that in early stage of dementia, significant unilateral hypoperfusion and hypometabolism of basal ganglia and thalamus is characteristic of CBD."}
{"id": "8334579", "title": "Progressive focal degenerative disease of the posterior associative cortex.", "content": "Progressive focal degenerative disease of the posterior associative cortex. A 72-year-old man developed a very progressive neuropsychologic deficit 6 years ago, beginning with isolated visual topographic memory disturbances and visuo-constructive apraxia without additional manifestations of dementia. The syndrome worsened thereafter with the emergence of visual agnosia, simultagnosia, psychic paralysis of gaze, auditivo-verbal agnosia, and recently an amnestic syndrome with confabulation and confusion (at the end of 1989). CT scans, which remained unchanged over the years, showed mild, focal atrophic changes revealed by dilatation of the right occipital horn. His angiograms were normal. Two SPECT studies (with HMPAO measurements), performed 6 years from the onset, detected marked hypoperfusion in both parieto-occipital regions, mainly on the right side. Progressive focal degenerative disease without dementia is a relatively new syndrome, especially in cases with progressive aphasia. As noted in our patient, progressive disturbances initially localized in the right parieto-occipital region followed by posterior bilobar degeneration (pronounced on the right side) without dementia until late in the course may represent another exceptionally reported characteristic of this new syndrome. It is suggested that this variant of the Mesulam syndrome is more likely explained by progressive atrophy of the Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "8327331", "title": "[HMPAO-SPECT in Alzheimer-type dementia and major depression with memory disorders].", "content": "[HMPAO-SPECT in Alzheimer-type dementia and major depression with memory disorders]. The aim of the present study was to see whether HMPAO-SPECT may contribute to the differentiation between dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and major depression (MD). The results in 77 patients with memory impairment were evaluated. 48 patients suffered from DAT and 29 from MD. Initially, the defects in SPECT imaging were attributed to a cerebral region and the degree of decrease was evaluated (-1/-2/-3). Thereafter, the results were classified by 7 categories. In some of these categories an accumulation of cases of either DAT or MD was found. 35% of the patients suffering from DAT had bilateral defects with distinct (> -1) parietal/parietotemporal hypoperfusions, but no patient with MD showed this perfusion pattern. 62% of the patients with MD had unilateral defects but only 31% of the patients with DAT. The present study demonstrates that only 35% of all patients suffering from DAT show a perfusion pattern, thought earlier as \"pathognomonic\" for this disease. This perfusion pattern--if it exists--may be used as a safe criterion to exclude MD. Beyond that no clearcut (\"specific\") perfusion pattern may be recognized but unilateral defects point to MD."}
{"id": "8323482", "title": "Cognitive correlates of regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognitive correlates of regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer's disease. To study the relationship between relative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and performance on a variety of neuropsychological tests in a group of subjects with Alzheimer's disease. Analysis of the relationship between relative rCBF and neuropsychological performance using stepwise multiple regressions and Pearson Product-Moment Correlation coefficients. University dementia clinic and research laboratory. Twelve mildly demented patients with Alzheimer's disease (Mini-Mental State examination [MMSE] scores, 24 to 29; age, 56 to 78 years); 38 moderately demented patients with Alzheimer's disease (MMSE scores, 0 to 23; age, 59 to 86 years); and eight normal control subjects (MMSE scores, 27 to 30; age, 61 to 79 years). Single photon emission computed tomography and the blood flow tracer N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine iodine 123 were used to measure relative rCBF. Cognitive performance was assessed by grouping neuropsychological tests into clusters reflecting frontal lobe abilities, perseveration, memory, and visuoconstructive abilities. While MMSE score was a significant (P < .05) predictor of visuoconstruction, frontal lobe, and memory cluster scores, relative rCBF was a weaker predictor of neuropsychological performance, with only right orbitofrontal relative rCBF emerging as a significant (P < .05) predictor of the frontal cluster score and right parietal relative rCBF as a significant (P < .05) predictor of the visuoconstruction cluster score. These results support our a priori grouping of neuropsychological tests into frontal and visuoconstruction clusters and suggest that these two clusters are good measures of frontal and parietal lobe function, respectively."}
{"id": "8319928", "title": "[Early diagnostic differentiation of primary dementia from primary depressive syndromes in the aged--a contribution to the discussion of pseudodementia].", "content": "[Early diagnostic differentiation of primary dementia from primary depressive syndromes in the aged--a contribution to the discussion of pseudodementia]. The syndromes associated with dementia and depression in old age show a considerable overlap and even coincidence, not only for statistical reasons. Starting with a critical evaluation of the term \"pseudodementia\", possibilities for a differentiation of both types of syndromes by characteristics of clinical features and history and by additional investigations are shown. A critical review of the literature with focus on the differentiating properties of the following methods is given: neuropsychology and rating scales (e.g., \"cortical\" mediated versus motivational changes), neurophysiology (electroencephalography, EEG; evoked potentials, EP; event-related potentials, ERP), sleep physiology (REM-sleep changes; sleep deprivation results), neuroendocrinology (dexamethasone suppression test), neuroradiology (cranial computed tomography, CCT; magnetic resonance imaging, MRI) and especially the dynamic imaging methods of nuclear medicine (cerebral glucose metabolism with fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography, FDG-PET; cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements with PET and single photon emission tomography, SPET). Developments during recent years concerning better imaging of early hippocampal lesions (MRI) or analysis of CBF--changes induced by activation methods may be very helpful. In conclusion, one can say that the diagnosis of dementia and depression remains primarily a clinical one that can be ascertained by means of valuable diagnostic tools."}
{"id": "8318176", "title": "Effects of zidovudine in 30 patients with mild to end-stage AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "Effects of zidovudine in 30 patients with mild to end-stage AIDS dementia complex. Zidovudine (ZDV) is an inhibitor of HIV replication that may have a beneficial effect on patients with AIDS dementia complex (ADC). However, little is known about the association between long-term ZDV treatment and severity of ADC, ZDV dose or clinical and laboratory response to therapy. An open study on ZDV administration in 30 consecutive patients with ADC. An infectious diseases hospital. Thirty consecutive patients followed-up for 12 months. Three oral ZDV doses were used: 1000 mg (nine patients), 750 mg (eight patients) and 500 mg (13 patients) per day, depending on haematological status. Clinical and neurological examinations, neuropsychological evaluations, high-field brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 99mTc-HM-PAO single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). A favourable clinical response, defined as reversal to a less severe ADC stage (Price and Brew's criteria), was observed after 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months in 15, 22, 25, 19 and 14 patients, respectively. Neither severity of ADC at entry nor ZDV dose correlated with response to treatment. Seven patients died during the 12-month follow-up. The only factor associated with longer survival was ADC severity at entry (12-month survival, 0.94 and 0.53, in patients in stages 1 or 2 and in stages 3 or 4, respectively; P < 0.01). After 6-12 months of ZDV treatment six patients who initially responded to therapy showed a relapse in initial ADC stage, and two patients a less severe neurological deterioration. Neuropsychological evaluations showed significant improvement in the Wisconsin Card-Sorting test (P = 0.006 for categories, P = 0.029 for perseverative errors), which is particularly sensitive to cognitive and frontal-lobe type functions. Brain MRI revealed a reduction of the extent of white matter lesions in six out of 13 patients, who also showed clinical improvement. SPECT scanning revealed a reduction in the extent of uptake defects concomitant with clinical response in nine out of 14 patients. ZDV is effective in most patients with mild to end-stage ADC, although the benefit is sometimes only transient; several relapses and deaths occurred after the sixth month of treatment."}
{"id": "8315893", "title": "[A case of binswanger-type dementia with bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT].", "content": "[A case of binswanger-type dementia with bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT]. We report a case of Binswanger-type dementia demonstrated bilateral temporoparietal hypoperfusion in SPECT with 123I-IMP. The perfusion pattern in the present case was different from those previously obtained in SPECT or PET studies of patients with Binswanger-type dementia, and was similar to regional abnormalities in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. Temporoparietal hypoperfusion in this case is likely to be mediated by neuronal mechanisms via projection fibers as a result of the deep white matter lesions in the temporoparietal area. A decreased perfusion or metabolism in the temporoparietal area is considered to be a characteristic in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia, however, we should keep in mind that other cerebral disorders may also show a similar perfusion pattern."}
{"id": "8301875", "title": "Three-dimensional surface display using 123I-IMP in a case of motor neuron disease with dementia.", "content": "Three-dimensional surface display using 123I-IMP in a case of motor neuron disease with dementia. A case of motor neuron disease with dementia is presented. A brain CT showed atrophic changes mainly in the left frontal cortex, and 123I-IMP SPECT disclosed a decrease in 123I-IMP uptake in the frontal regions. To distinguish a subregion related to dementia from that related to motor system disorders, a three-dimensional surface display with 123I-IMP was reconstructed. The imaging method clearly demonstrated cortical hypoperfusion in the inferomedial frontal cortex and the motor-sensory cortex. These findings suggest that dementia may be due to the former lesion and motor system disorders due to the latter lesion, respectively."}
{"id": "8298827", "title": "Single photon emission computerised tomography in elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia. Regional uptake of technetium-labelled HMPAO related to clinical measurements.", "content": "Single photon emission computerised tomography in elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia. Regional uptake of technetium-labelled HMPAO related to clinical measurements. Single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) was used to measure regional brain uptake of technetium-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxine (Tc99m-HMPAO) in elderly patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), multi-infarct dementia (MID) and normals (n = 20 in each group). Different patterns of uptake were found between groups when cortical uptake was normalised to cerebellar uptake. Reductions occurred in all regions in AD, being most marked in temporal and posterior parietal areas. Significant correlations were found in AD between memory impairment and decreased temporal uptake bilaterally, and between duration of illness and reduced uptake in most brain regions. MID patients showed higher uptake in the anterior parietal region than did the other groups. A variable comparing anterior to posterior uptake significantly discriminated the two patient groups."}
{"id": "8297624", "title": "[Focal neuropsychological deterioration by posterior lobar atrophy (posterior cortical dementia)].", "content": "[Focal neuropsychological deterioration by posterior lobar atrophy (posterior cortical dementia)]. A right-handed 59 year old man who presented difficulties in the performance of complex acts (praxic) and spatial disorientation is described. Neurophysical exploration showed deterioration of the capacities linked to perceptive and spatial organization preserving the verbal capacities including the memory. After two years and a half of follow up practically no variation has been observed in his clinical manifestations with no implication of other superior mental function. CAT and MR findings revealed important posterior atrophy with an increase in the occipital loops. SPECT demonstrated cold images due to a bilateral parietal-temporal perfusion deficit. Discussion of the case leads to the needs of unifying the criteria and terminology for these focal degenerative processes."}
{"id": "8293601", "title": "[Relations between neuropsychological findings and lateral asymmetries of cerebral blood flow measured by SPECT in dementia of Alzheimer type].", "content": "[Relations between neuropsychological findings and lateral asymmetries of cerebral blood flow measured by SPECT in dementia of Alzheimer type]. We studied 16 right-handed patients clinically diagnosed as dementia of Alzheimer type (6 men, 10 women; aged 63-85, mean 72.8 years). The average duration of symptoms was 2.7 years. Dementia ranged from mild to moderately severe. None had clinical or laboratory evidence of cerebrovascular disease (Hachinski ischemic scores for all patients were 4 or below 4). All received the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), Mini-mental State Test (MMS) and Western Aphasia Battery (WAB, First Japanese edition, 1986). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was evaluated by single photon emission CT (SPECT) with 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP), using the Matsuda's quantitative method (Am J Physiol Imag 1: 186, 1986). Regional tracer uptake was measured in regions of interests (ROIs) over right and left frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortical regions; basal ganglia; and cerebellar hemispheres. The subjects were divided into three groups on the basis of lateral asymmetries in the temporal and parietal cortexes of rCBF (left < right, n = 5; right < left, n = 3; left = right, n = 8). We decided that lateral asymmetry was present when rCBF for each ROI between left and right sides differs by more than 10%. General score (MMS, T-IQ) was not correlated with asymmetry of cerebral blood flow. Verbal IQ in patients with predominant hypoperfusion of left temporal and parietal lobe was significantly lower than other group, while performance IQ and WAB constructive scores were lower in those with right hemispheric hypoperfusion (p < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8277596", "title": "[Quantitative regional cerebral blood flow study with 123I-IMP in patients with dementia and in patients with poor activities of daily living].", "content": "[Quantitative regional cerebral blood flow study with 123I-IMP in patients with dementia and in patients with poor activities of daily living]. N-isopropyl-p[123I]iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) SPECT and quantitative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) studies were performed in 111 patients with cerebral disorders. Continuous arterial blood sampling method based on the microsphere model was used as a quantitative rCBF measurement. We evaluated rCBF in patients with dementia and also in patients with poor activities of daily living (ADL). Patients with dementia showed significant reduction of mean CBF in contrast to patients without dementia. Significant decrease of rCBF in the bilateral frontal cortex, parietal cortex and basal ganglia and the right temporal cortex were found in demented patients. Although patients with vascular dementia showed decreased rCBF in bilateral basal ganglia, demented patients with Parkinson's disease showed no significant reduction of rCBF in any regions. Patients with poor ADL showed decreased rCBF in all brain regions. And particularly frontal and basal ganglionic defects were most pronounced. Patients with poor ADL resulted from cerebral infarction showed significant decrease of rCBF in bilateral basal ganglia. However, there was no significant correlation in Parkinson's disease between ADL and rCBF. The rCBF measurement with 123I-IMP is useful for clinical evaluation of demented patients and patients with poor ADL."}
{"id": "8270594", "title": "Functional brain imaging in late-life depression and dementia.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in late-life depression and dementia. Studies utilizing advanced scanning technologies suggest that brain imaging may have a role in the differential diagnosis of some common neuropsychiatric disorders. In subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), widespread cortical reductions in glucose metabolism and blood flow have been described, with predominant involvement of the temporal and parietal lobes. The primary sensory areas and subcortical regions are relatively spared. When a \"patchy\" pattern of reductions in cerebral blood flow and metabolism is associated with clinical dementia, a vascular etiology should be suspected. Major depression in the elderly is associated with reductions in whole brain glucose metabolic rates comparable in magnitude with those described in DAT. Relatively distinctive patterns of flow and metabolism also are seen in frontal-temporal dementia and Parkinson's disease with dementia."}
{"id": "8264906", "title": "123I-iodobenzamide-SPECT in 83 patients with de novo parkinsonism.", "content": "123I-iodobenzamide-SPECT in 83 patients with de novo parkinsonism. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 123I-iodobenzamide (123I-IBZM) was used in a prospective study to investigate 83 patients with parkinsonism (Hoehn and Yahr stages I to III) who had not been previously treated with dopamimetic drugs. All patients had clinical signs that were compatible with Parkinson's disease. An additional 13 patients had clinical signs of another basal ganglia disorder, such as progressive supranuclear palsy or multisystem atrophy. 123I-IBZM-SPECT results were compared with clinical responses to subcutaneous injections of the D1/D2-receptor agonist apomorphine (83 patients) and to long-term oral dopamimetic therapy (62 patients). Results from 123I-IBZM-SPECT predicted a positive or negative response to apomorphine in 69 of 76 patients (apomorphine responses were equivocal in 7 patients) and a response to dopamimetic therapy in 54 of 62 patients. All patients with a clinical diagnosis of progressive supranuclear palsy or multisystem atrophy had reduced 123I-IBZM binding. In six of these patients, the response to apomorphine was negative, and none clearly benefited from long-term oral levodopa therapy. Imaging of dopamine D2 receptors with 123I-IBZM-SPECT appears to distinguish between patients with de novo parkinsonism that is levodopa-responsive (probably Parkinson's disease of Lewy body type) and that which does not respond to levodopa therapy."}
{"id": "8257465", "title": "Rapidly progressive aphasic dementia and motor neuron disease.", "content": "Rapidly progressive aphasic dementia and motor neuron disease. Articulatory and language impairment heralded rapidly progressive motor neuron disease in 7 patients aged 54 to 77 years. One patient had a family history of a similar disorder. Severe nonfluent aphasia developed in all 7 patients and 4 were anarthric within a year. Other cognitive domains were impaired, yet 2 patients lived alone until 1 month before their deaths. Four died within 2 years. Abnormalities were found on electromyography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography, and electroencephalography. Neuropathological examination in 3 patients showed bilateral hemispheric atrophy with neuronal loss and gliosis predominantly of superficial cortical layers. Pigmented and hypoglossal nuclei were relatively preserved. At all spinal levels there was degeneration of corticospinal tracts and loss of anterior horn cells with gliosis. Rapidly progressive aphasic dementia and motor neuron disease are a distinctive clinical entity whose nosology is poorly understood."}
{"id": "8256556", "title": "Possible association of HTLV-I infection and dementia.", "content": "Possible association of HTLV-I infection and dementia. We report a Swedish patient with progressive dementia possibly associated with human T cell-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) infection. The clinical investigation revealed no typical sings of other neurological disorders. The patient was probably infected in East-Asia 35 years before onset of the disease. High titers of specific HTLV-I antibodies were detectable with solid-phase peptide ELISA in serum (1:1.600) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (1:20), and the CSF/serum anti-HTLV-I antibody ratio indicated intrathecal HTLV-I antibody synthesis. Western blot for HTLV-I and polymerase chain reaction with primers selected for the HTLV-I pol gene were positive in both peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid. HTLV-I antigen was also demonstrated after in vitro co-cultivation of mononuclear cells from peripheral blood. Thus, our findings indicate that HTLV-I infection also may be associated with dementia. In addition, this case report calls attention upon HTLV-I as a possible etiologic agent to neurological diseases in countries previously spared from the infection."}
{"id": "8245654", "title": "[Diagnosis of dementia--with special reference to image diagnosis and biological markers].", "content": "[Diagnosis of dementia--with special reference to image diagnosis and biological markers]."}
{"id": "8242214", "title": "Localized cerebral atrophy: an important cause of non-Alzheimer's dementia.", "content": "Localized cerebral atrophy: an important cause of non-Alzheimer's dementia. Localized forms of cerebral atrophy (lobar atrophies) are more common than textbooks suggest and are often misdiagnosed. They may give rise to conductor disorder and personality change, or progressive language dysfunction. This article outlines the presenting features, the differential diagnosis and appropriate investigations."}
{"id": "8233245", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of 99Tcm-HMPAO single-headed SPECT in dementia.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of 99Tcm-HMPAO single-headed SPECT in dementia. The sensitivity and specificity of 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single-headed single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in dementia were evaluated in elderly patients with a mean age of 84 years suffering from dementia (n = 59) and compared to an age- and sex-matched control group with normal cognitive function (n = 14). The demented patients were classified as suffering from primary degenerative dementia (PDD, n = 51) based on DSM-III-R criteria. Moreover, PDD patients were divided into three subgroups of severity of cognitive impairment, according to their Folstein score. Multi-infarct dementia (MID, n = 8) was diagnosed based on clinical features, computed tomographic findings and Hachinski ischaemic score. Images were assessed qualitatively by visual interpretation of shades of colour in cortical regions. A SPECT defect confined to the frontal, parietal, temporal or (parieto) occipital lobe was defined as one lesion. The mean number of SPECT lesions was 1.4 (range 0-4) in the control group, 2.4 (range 0-8) in the PDD group and 2.9 (range 2-5) in the MID group and showed a significant difference (P < 0.02) between groups. To obtain an acceptable level of specificity of 64.3%, a cut-off value of three lesions had to be chosen. In the PDD group, sensitivity was then 25% for the mildly, 43.8% for the moderately and 46.7% for the severely affected PDD subgroup. In the MID group sensitivity was then 75%. Interestingly, in this elderly patient population the location of lesions was homogenously distributed in all groups, including the control group."}
{"id": "8136897", "title": "Brain perfusion imaging in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease demonstrated by three-dimensional surface display with 123I-iodoamphetamine.", "content": "Brain perfusion imaging in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease demonstrated by three-dimensional surface display with 123I-iodoamphetamine. We reconstructed three-dimensional (3D) surface images from data from single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with N-isopropyl-p[123I]-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) in 29 patients with Parkinson's disease, 16 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 11 normal control subjects. In patients with nondementing Parkinson's disease, perfusion defects were frequently found in the parietal cortical region at a threshold value of 65%. In demented Parkinson's disease patients, perfusion defects were frequently noted at threshold of 45-65%, and were more marked in the bilateral temporal and parietal cortices. In Alzheimer's disease, perfusion defects were similar to those found in dementing Parkinson's disease. These results suggest that dementia in Parkinson's disease is related to the perfusion reduction of the temporoparietal cortex, and may support the view that Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease overlap in some patients. A 3D display of an 123I-IMP brain tomogram may be useful for detecting cortical lesions in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "8123306", "title": "[Frontal lobe dementia--two cases diagnosed by SPECT].", "content": "[Frontal lobe dementia--two cases diagnosed by SPECT]. Both patients 1 and 2 were males 73 and 77 years old, respectively, and over the past several years, both had gradually developed progressive loss of vigor, paucity speech, personality changes, and anosognosia, in addition to memory loss and disorientation. Patient 1 experienced emotional lability, mild pyramidal signs and parkinsonian features. The various diseases causing secondary dementia were ruled out. The Mini Mental Scale scores were 13 and 21, respectively. Brain CT scans and MRI showed cerebral atrophy, most prominent in the frontal and the temporal lobes. There were few lesions suggestive of cerebrovascular disease. The EEGs showed nonspecific diffuse slowing, and the cerebrospinal fluid was normal. 123I-amphetamine SPECT, which provided the most valuable diagnostic findings in these two cases, demonstrated selective hypoperfusion of the frontal and the temporal lobes in both patients. Frontal lobe dementia of the non-Alzheimer type (Gustafson, Neary), progressive subcortical gliosis (Neumann), Pick's disease, and Alzheimer's disease with frontal lobe predominance were considered the most likely of the various diseases causing frontal lobe dementia. The usefulness of SPECT in diagnosing and elucidating the pathophysiology of dementia are discussed."}
{"id": "8103130", "title": "[Molecular genetic analysis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Molecular genetic analysis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease]. The authors report the clinical findings and the results of molecular genetic analysis of 8 patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Differential diagnosis was carried out on the basis of familial history, laboratory data, brain imaging analysis using CT, MRI and SPECT. According to the clinical stage criteria made by Cummings and Benson, 6 cases were in stage 1 and the remaining 2 in stage 2. Recently, it was reported that affected members from 6 Japanese kindreds with familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) had missense mutation in exon 17 of the gene for beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP). Amino acid substitution (Val-Ile) at codon 717 by this mutation was considered to be responsible for FAD in these kindreds. We used genomic DNA from 8 sporadic cases to determine whether the disease in these families is associated with an APP 717 mutation and the mutated codons, 102, 117, 129, 178, and 200, on the gene for proteinase-resistant prion protein (Prp) which causes transmissible dementia, Creuzfelt-Jacob disease (CJD) and Gerstmann-Str\u00e4ussler syndrome (GSS). The results showed that there were no mutations on these genes in 8 patients. It would be necessary to analyze DNA from patient with sporadic Alzheimer's disease to examine the mutations found in the APP gene and Prp gene of heredity Alzheimer's disease patients."}
{"id": "8095556", "title": "Receptor imaging by PET and SPECT: focus on the opiate receptor.", "content": "Receptor imaging by PET and SPECT: focus on the opiate receptor. Receptor imaging by PET and SPECT offers distinctive advantages over the more established flow/metabolism imaging methods, including improved chemical specificity and improved sensitivity in detecting changes in disease. Radioligands are available for PET and SPECT imaging of many neuroreceptors including the opiate receptor, the dopamine receptor and the muscarinic cholinergic receptor. A new focus of interest is the imaging and quantification of presynaptic neurotransmitter reuptake sites. Clinical applications of mu opiate receptor imaging are discussed for epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease and dementia."}
{"id": "8075906", "title": "A single photon emission computerised tomography study of regional brain function underlying verbal memory in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "A single photon emission computerised tomography study of regional brain function underlying verbal memory in patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. Ten patients with Alzheimer-type dementia and nine age-matched normal controls were examined with SPECT, using split-dose 99mTc-labelled exametazime. The baseline condition involved repetition of the word 'yes' or 'no'. The activation condition involved recognition (indicated by a 'yes' or 'no') of words from a previously learned list presented along with distractor words. Patients who performed this task successfully were selected, and efforts were made to match the patients with controls according to their performance on the task, although this was not fully achieved. Uptake of 99mTc-exametazime was estimated at baseline and during the word-recognition task for predetermined regions of interest drawn from a standard neuroanatomical atlas. The baseline task appeared to normalise tracer uptake for frontal, temporal and parietal cortex in the patient group. However, during the recognition task, controls but not patients showed activation effects. These were most prominent in dorsolateral frontal cortex and adjacent anterior cingulate cortex. Among patients, successful performance was correlated with activation of dorsolateral frontal and parietal cortex on the left side. The results confirm the central role of frontal mechanisms in a recognition memory task. The study highlights some of the difficulties of using cognitive challenge tests in clinical groups."}
{"id": "8075905", "title": "A single photon emission computerised tomography study of regional brain function in elderly patients with major depression and with Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "A single photon emission computerised tomography study of regional brain function in elderly patients with major depression and with Alzheimer-type dementia. The uptake, at rest, of 99mTc-exametazime into different brain regions was compared using SPECT for 20 elderly subjects with major depressive disorder, 20 with Alzheimer-type dementia, and 30 age-matched normal volunteers. Uptake was referred to calcarine-occipital cortex as a reference sensory area. Cross-sectional differences between the three groups were highly statistically significant, but reflected primarily the reductions in cortical uptake in the Alzheimer group. A detailed comparison of depressed patients and controls identified decrements in anterior cingulate, temporal and frontal cortex and in caudate and thalamus in men only. These decrements were correlated with impairment of performance on a trail-making task, but were also associated with continuing treatment with antidepressants or benzodiazepines. However, most depressed patients had quantitatively normal scans for posterior parietal association cortex, and this suggests that SPECT may find a limited role in the differential diagnosis of depression and dementia. The reduced brain function in some depressed patients may parallel the findings from studies of brain structure in elderly depressives; there was between good outcome at 6-18 months and increased tracer uptake in subcortical areas."}
{"id": "7906947", "title": "Clinical studies in Alzheimer patients with positron emission tomography.", "content": "Clinical studies in Alzheimer patients with positron emission tomography. Brain imaging techniques will in the future play an important role in the assessment of patients with neurogenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). An early diagnosis of AD is today hampered by lack of reliable diagnostic markers. Positron emission tomography (PET) permits the quantification and three-dimensional imaging of physiological variables. This provides the clinician with a non-invasive imaging technique which allows in vivo quantification of physiological processes in AD underlying dysfunction of cognition. PET studies regarding changes in cerebral blood flow and metabolism are rather consistent at least in moderate/advanced cases of AD. How early in the progress of the disease deficits in these parameters can be observed is still an open question. Longitudinal studies will here be important and especially in individuals with a family history of AD. Since deficits in cholinergic neurotransmission have been measured in autopsy AD brains attempts have also been made to visualized cholinergic activity in vivo. Nicotinic and muscarinic receptors have been visualized in normal and AD brains. A reduced uptake and binding of [11C]nicotine in the temporal and frontal cortices have been measured in AD patients by PET. Few treatment studies in AD have been evaluated by PET. Long-term treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine increase the uptake of [11C]nicotine. Significant reduction in uptake between the two enantiomers (S)(-) and (R)(+)-[11C]nicotine has been observed compatible with a restoration of nicotinic receptors. Tacrine also significantly increased the glucose metabolism. PET studies indicate that long-term tacrine treatment in AD patients with mild dementia improves functional activities in brain. When an AD patient with moderate dementia was treated with nerve growth factor (NGF) PET studies revealed increase in cortical blood flow and nicotinic receptors. PET studies will in the future play an important role in the evaluation of new therapeutic drug strategies in AD."}
{"id": "1739606", "title": "Physiologic imaging of the brain.", "content": "Physiologic imaging of the brain. Advances in imaging hardware for positron emission tomography and single-photon emission CT, coupled with a wide variety of radiopharmaceutical agents, have allowed these techniques to be used in the evaluation of neoplasm, stroke, epilepsy, and dementia. Cerebral perfusion agents continue to be the mainstay of single-photon emission CT imaging but, in addition to the evaluation of ischemia, it has seen an increasing role in the study of dementia, neuropsychiatric disorders, and seizures. Positron emission tomography scanning has had similar applications but it is playing a greater part in the evaluation of neoplasms, including primary gliomas and pituitary adenomas. Stable-xenon CT has shown value in the study of ischemia associated with meningitis, sickle cell disease, chronic subdural hematomas, and cerebral arteriovenous malformations. MR diffusion imaging shows promise in the evaluation of white matter pathology and some tumors."}
{"id": "1732447", "title": "Cerebral blood flow imaging with technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT in a patient with chronic subdural hematoma: relationship with neuropsychological test.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow imaging with technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT in a patient with chronic subdural hematoma: relationship with neuropsychological test. We report the relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) and neuropsychologic tests in a patient with a chronic subdural hematoma suffering from severe dementia and left hemiparesis. Regional CBF was quantified using 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT and 133Xe-CBF. CBF-SPECT could detect the hematoma which was isodense by CT scan and the neuropsychological test improved remarkably with the increase in CBF after surgery. We conclude that if there is a strong clinical suspicion of subdural hematoma and CT scan is not diagnostic then CBF-SPECT may be valuable in localizing the hematoma and monitoring the effect of operation."}
{"id": "1643871", "title": "Toward a definite diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Toward a definite diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. There is a significant, and growing, number of patients who suffer from dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT). However, due to clinical variability and symptom overlap, and despite millions of dollars spent in diagnostic work-ups, the diagnosis of DAT remains one of exclusion or by neuropathologic study (usually postmortem). This report evaluates two promising methods, the newly refined clinical criteria sets (e.g., NINCDS-ADRDA) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), on their capacity for definite, accurate, and early diagnosis of DAT patients. We found that clinical diagnosis of DAT can achieve a weighted average for sensitivity of 72%, specificity of 86%, and diagnostic confidence of 72%; however, when NINCDS-ADRDA criteria are used, these results improve to 88%, 91%, and 92%, respectively. SPECT scans could differentiate DAT patients from normals with 86% sensitivity, 96% specificity, and 98% diagnostic confidence. Comparable figures for DAT versus multi-infarct dementia (MID) are 82%, 81%, and 86%, respectively. We conclude that, although a definite clinical diagnosis of DAT is still elusive and more research is needed, the use of either NINCDS-ADRDA criteria or SPECT scans may enhance diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "1640654", "title": "[123I-IMP SPECT study on patients with amnestic syndrome].", "content": "[123I-IMP SPECT study on patients with amnestic syndrome]. Regional cerebral blood flow was studied using single photon emission CT (SPECT) with 123I-IMP to elucidate the pathophysiology of amnesia. Four patients with amnestic syndrome diagnosed by DSM-III-R criteria were investigated. SPECT images demonstrated definite hypoperfusion of the temporoparietal lobe and relative sparing of motor-sensory and occipital cortices in two out of four patients. Since these abnormalities of regional cerebral blood flow have been considered to be characteristic findings in dementia of the Alzheimer type, two patients with temporoparietal hypoperfusion are suggested to manifest the early stage of dementia of the Alzheimer type. Our observations suggest that 123I-IMP SPECT is an useful modality in the diagnosis of the early stage of dementia of the Alzheimer type, especially in patients with only memory impairment."}
{"id": "1638171", "title": "CBF and cognitive evaluation of Alzheimer type patients before and after IMAO-B treatment: a pilot study.", "content": "CBF and cognitive evaluation of Alzheimer type patients before and after IMAO-B treatment: a pilot study. Ten patients diagnosed as affected by primary degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type, with a mild to moderate cognitive and behavioral impairment, were studied in a double blind design when taking for 60 days 5 mg twice a day of L-deprenyl or placebo. Cognitive functions and cerebral blood flow were assessed at the beginning and at the end of treatment by a wide array of memory, attention, and language efficiency measures and by SPECT-99TcHMPAO procedure. Reduced CBF on the parietal lobes was demonstrated in the patients at baseline together with a reduction of memory and cognitive efficiency. At the end of the treatment patients who received L-deprenyl showed an improvement in cognitive efficiency and no changes in CBF, while patients treated with placebo showed a worsening of cognitive efficiency and further reduction of parietal lobe CBF."}
{"id": "1635624", "title": "Clinical and cerebral blood flow studies in patients with intracranial hemorrhage and amyloid angiopathy typical of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical and cerebral blood flow studies in patients with intracranial hemorrhage and amyloid angiopathy typical of Alzheimer's disease. Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhages can occur in patients with severe amyloid angiopathy and other morphological signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We observed 15 patients in whom histological examination of brain tissue specimens obtained at surgery revealed characteristic congophilic amyloid deposits in subcortical arteries and/or nerve cells. Clinical follow-up examinations were carried out up to 9 years after diagnosis. In addition, three survivors from the operated group were investigated by neuropsychological testing and single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) using Tc-99m-HMPAO for determination of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). SPECT could not differentiate between the \"typical Alzheimer disease pattern\" of bilateral temporo-parietal rCBF reduction and flow deficits resulting from previous hemorrhage. Intellectual functioning was found to be impaired to various degrees ranging from normal function to severe dementia (MMS test scores varied between 15 and 26 points); again, it was difficult to differentiate clinically between the nosologic entities mentioned above. On the basis of our present experience we cannot distinguish between brain dysfunction due to Alzheimer's disease and intracranial hemorrhage from amyloid angiopathy. This supports the idea that intracranial hemorrhage may only be one clinical manifestation of amyloid deposits, another one being \"Alzheimer's disease\" with varying preponderance."}
{"id": "1635620", "title": "[Lack of specificity of single photon emission computerized tomography in dementia--results of a case of progressive paralysis].", "content": "[Lack of specificity of single photon emission computerized tomography in dementia--results of a case of progressive paralysis]. In a 53-year old male suffering from paretic neurosyphilis, SPECT-investigations were performed before and after treatment with high doses of Penicillin G. The patient was admitted for disturbances of speech and concentration, memory disorder and tonic-clonic seizures. Mental examination showed a mild dysphoria and irritability in mood, but no disturbance of orientation, no euphoria or expansive delusions, and no paranoia. Mini-Mental-State examination was within the normal range (28 points); no abnormalities were found on neurologic examination, and CT and MRI investigations showed normal findings. The diagnosis was verified by CSF-examination (pleocytosis, elevated protein, positive Lues reactions). SPECT investigation with Tc 99m HMPAO (20 mCi, single-head rotating camera) revealed a pronounced bilateral parieto-temporal uptake deficiency as observed in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type. After 18 months the clinical symptoms had remitted, and laboratory findings were improved. On the other hand, the bilateral parieto-temporal uptake deficiency in SPECT remained unchanged. Possible causes of these findings are discussed in relation to neuropathologic findings. It can be concluded that bilateral parieto-temporal uptake deficiency in SPECT is a nonspecific finding and that there is no correlation between clinical improvement and SPECT pattern in paretic neurosyphilis."}
{"id": "1628430", "title": "[Analysis of cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease by 123I-IMP SPECT].", "content": "[Analysis of cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease by 123I-IMP SPECT]. To investigate the relationship between the alterations of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and the cognitive impairment in parkinsonian patients, I studied forty-one patients affected by Parkinson's disease (19 men and 22 women) using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and N-isopropyl-p-[123I] iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) as a tracer. I evaluated the cognitive function with the Mini-Mental State examination (MMS), the Hasegawa's Dementia Scale (HDS), the Kana-pick up test (KT), and the figure drawing test (FDT). I evaluated the motor impairment with the Hoehn and Yahr stage. SPECT scanning was performed with a rotating digital gamma camera TOSHIBA 901-A. A semiquantitative method of assessing regional tracer uptake was used. Regions of interest (ROI; 3 x 3 pixels, 15.9 x 15.9 mm2) were drawn on the cerebellar hemispheres, cortical regions (frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital), and basal ganglia bilaterally. The RI count index was expressed as a ratio of activity in each ROI to mean counting rate over cerebellar regions. I considered the RI count index as the index of rCBF in each ROI. There were strong positive correlations between MMS and rCBF of frontal, parietal and occipital lobes (p less than 0.001). There were positive correlations between HDS and rCBF of frontal (p less than 0.01), parietal (p less than 0.001) and occipital lobes (p less than 0.01). There were positive correlations between KT and rCBF of frontal (p less than 0.01), occipital (p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1617841", "title": "'Reverse crescent pattern' on SPECT brain perfusion scan in chronic subdural hematoma.", "content": "'Reverse crescent pattern' on SPECT brain perfusion scan in chronic subdural hematoma. A SPECT brain perfusion scan was performed on a patient who had symptoms of dementia. The SPECT scan showed marked crescentic medial displacement of the left cerebral hemisphere (\"reverse crescent pattern\"), and mildly decreased cortical perfusion in the affected hemisphere. Crossed cerebellar diaschisis was not present. On x-ray CT, the underlying abnormality was found to be a unilateral chronic subdural hematoma causing a significant mass effect. A reverse crescent pattern without crossed cerebellar diaschisis on SPECT brain perfusion scan in patients with dementia may suggest the diagnosis of chronic subdural hematoma."}
{"id": "1613571", "title": "A comparison of brain perfusion SPECT in cocaine abuse and AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "A comparison of brain perfusion SPECT in cocaine abuse and AIDS dementia complex. Intravenous drug use is a major risk factor for HIV-1 infection. Since both AIDS dementia complex (ADC) and cocaine have been associated with abnormal brain perfusion imaging, we compared the scintigraphic patterns of ADC patients and cocaine polydrug users with normal control subjects using 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT. We found a high incidence of cortical defects in both ADC (100%) and cocaine-dependent (90%) subjects. In the cocaine and ADC patients, cortical defects were most frequent in the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes and occurred with similar frequency in the two populations. In both groups, the number of cortical defects per subject was higher than normal subjects (10.0 +/- 5.0 for ADC, 10.1 +/- 5.2 for cocaine and 0.7 +/- 1.5 for normal), background activity was high (a 65% and 60% incidence for ADC and cocaine, respectively), and basal ganglia involvement was frequent (40% and 65% for ADC and cocaine). We conclude that the brain perfusion pattern, while a sensitive indicator of ADC, cannot be distinguished from chronic cocaine polydrug use and caution should therefore be applied before entertaining a specific diagnosis."}
{"id": "1606480", "title": "Cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in Parkinson's disease. In order to investigate relationships between cognition and regional brain function, we studied 20 non-demented patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), 21 mildly demented patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 24 control subjects using cognitive testing and single photon emission computerized tomographic (SPECT) measurements of relative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Neuropsychological tests were grouped into clusters reflecting frontal lobe executive abilities, perseveration, memory and visuospatial ability, with a summary score summarizing performance in all four of these spheres. SPECT imaging utilized the tracer [123I]N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine with a relative measure of regional tracer uptake normalized to occipital radiotracer uptake (rCBF ratios). Patients with PD performed more poorly than controls in all cognitive domains, and were intermediate to AD patients and controls in tests of memory and overall cognitive functioning. Those PD patients who performed most poorly on neuropsychological testing showed lowest rCBF ratios in left and right temporal lobes. Using a stepwise multiple regression procedure, we examined patterns of correlations between cognitive clusters and predictor variables, including rCBF ratios, in the PD patients. We found that while patient age was a strong determinant of performance on the memory cluster and the summary score, dorsolateral frontal lobe perfusion and scores on a depression inventory accounted for a greater proportion of the variance of the frontal lobe and perseveration clusters than did age. These results imply that different neural mechanisms are responsible for the different aspects of cognitive decline seen in PD patients, with overall cognitive function closely related to age and temporal perfusion, while frontal lobe abilities are more linked to frontal perfusion and the presence of depression."}
{"id": "1578230", "title": "Focal reductions of cerebral blood flow in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study.", "content": "Focal reductions of cerebral blood flow in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO SPECT study. We investigated regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using the [99mTc]-d,l-HMPAO technique with brain dedicated high resolution single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) in 14 consecutive patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), median age 62 years (45-77). Global CBF, expressed in % relative to the cerebellum, was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) in the ALS group (80.5 +/- 6.7%) than in the control group of 14 age-matched healthy volunteers (87.0 +/- 7.5%). Eight patients (57%) had abnormal rCBF distribution maps with reduced flow, primarily in the frontal lobes. Three of the 8 patients with abnormal rCBF had mild to moderate dementia and another one had mild aphasia. None of the patients with normal rCBF distribution maps had dementia. In the group of ALS patients as a whole rCBF was significantly reduced in the frontal cortex, the hippocampus, and the central white matter. We conclude that reduced rCBF, primarily in the frontal lobes, is a frequent finding in patients with ALS. The decreased rCBF may be associated with cognitive deficits and is most likely caused by neuronal degeneration and reduced metabolic needs."}
{"id": "1575456", "title": "Progressive language disorder due to lobar atrophy.", "content": "Progressive language disorder due to lobar atrophy. Sixteen patients with progressive language disorder have been studied longitudinally. Anomia was a prominent presenting characteristic and mutism ultimately occurred. Patients, however, were clinically heterogeneous. Some exhibited nonfluent, agrammatic features, whereas others demonstrated a fluent aphasia, with profound loss of word meaning. Although language disorder remained the sole symptom in a minority of patients, in others an associative agnosia or personality and behavioral changes, or both, emerged. Findings on computed tomography and single photon emission tomography mirrored the areas of dysfunction suggested by the neuropsychological profiles and demonstrated abnormalities restricted to the left hemisphere or involving bilateral frontotemporal cortices. Brains of 3 patients, with distinctive clinical pictures, have been examined at autopsy. Each revealed a focal distribution of atrophy, gliosis and spongiform change, and an absence of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. There was clinical and pathological overlap with frontal lobe dementia. We argue that progressive language disorder is clinically heterogeneous and forms part of a spectrum of clinical presentations of non-Alzheimer lobar atrophy."}
{"id": "1571070", "title": "Comparison of EEG background frequency analysis, psychologic test scores, short test of mental status, and quantitative SPECT in dementia.", "content": "Comparison of EEG background frequency analysis, psychologic test scores, short test of mental status, and quantitative SPECT in dementia. Fourteen patients who had cognitive dysfunction were studied with quantitative electroencephalography (EEG), single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and several tests of intellectual and memory function, including the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), the Auditory Verbal Learning Test, and the Short Test of Mental Status, to determine whether EEG background frequency content correlates with degree of dementia and with regional uptake of radioisotope on SPECT. The factors from spectral analysis that correlated best with psychometric data were mean frequency in the 1.5- to 20-Hz range and percentage power in the 13- to 20-Hz band (positive correlation) or the 1.5- to 8-Hz band (negative correlation). The WAIS subtest scores that correlated most with the EEG data were performance IQ and perceptual organization. Correlations between percentage power and amplitude ratio in the EEG frequency bands and regional SPECT counts were found, but most were not statistically significant."}
{"id": "1564478", "title": "Association of atrophy of the medial temporal lobe with reduced blood flow in the posterior parietotemporal cortex in patients with a clinical and pathological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Association of atrophy of the medial temporal lobe with reduced blood flow in the posterior parietotemporal cortex in patients with a clinical and pathological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. A combination of medial temporal lobe atrophy, shown by computed tomography, and reduced blood flow in the parietotemporal cortex, shown by single photon emission tomography, was found in 86% (44/51) of patients with a clinical diagnosis of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT). The same combination of changes was found in four out of 10 patients with other clinical types of dementia and in two out of 18 with no evidence of cognitive deficit. Of the 12 patients who died, 10 fulfilled histopathological criteria for Alzheimer's disease, nine of them having a clinical diagnosis of SDAT, and one a clinical diagnosis of multi-infarct dementia. All 10 patients with histopathologically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease had shown a combination of hippocampal atrophy and reduced parietotemporal blood flow in life. In 10 patients (nine with SDAT) out of 12 in whom the hippocampal atrophy was more noticeable on one side of the brain than on the other the parietotemporal perfusion deficit was also asymmetrical, being greater on the side showing more hippocampal atrophy. These results suggest that the combination of atrophy of the hippocampal formation and reduced blood flow in the parietotemporal region is a feature of dementia of the Alzheimer type and that the functional change in the parietotemporal region might be related to the loss of the projection neurons in the parahippocampal gyrus that innervate this region of the neocortex."}
{"id": "1559658", "title": "[Serial brain CT and 123I-IMP SPECT in a case with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease].", "content": "[Serial brain CT and 123I-IMP SPECT in a case with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease]. Serial brain CT and 123I-IMP SPECT were examined in a case with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). A 61-year-old woman had the onset of progressive dementia and gait disturbance in December 1988. Then, she developed left hemiparesis and dysarthria, and rapidly fell into akinetic mutism within about 2 months. Brain CT, MRI, and CSF findings showed no definite abnormalities. In February 1989, myoclonic movements appeared in several parts of the body and EEG revealed periodic synchronous discharges. Myoclonus was observed most frequently from March to May 1989, and then reduced gradually. She died in June 1990, and the total clinical course was 19 months. Brain atrophy on CT started from about 4 months after the onset, and progressed subacutely. At the end stage of the disease, diffuse brain atrophy including the cerebellum and the brain stem on CT was observed. SPECT revealed decreased perfusion in the cerebral cortex from 5 months after the onset to the end stage, but; perfusion in the cerebellum and the basal ganglia was relatively kept even at the end stage of the disease. The results suggest that SPECT is a useful examination for presumption of the pathological processes in CJD."}
{"id": "1549216", "title": "123I-iodobenzamide-SPECT predicts dopaminergic responsiveness in patients with de novo parkinsonism.", "content": "123I-iodobenzamide-SPECT predicts dopaminergic responsiveness in patients with de novo parkinsonism. We used 123I-iodobenzamide-single photon emission computed tomography (IBZM-SPECT) in a prospective study to investigate 38 patients with parkinsonism (Hoehn and Yahr stage I to III) not previously treated with dopamimetic drugs. Thirty-four patients only showed symptoms of Parkinson's disease, and four patients showed, in addition, subtle clinical signs of progressive supranuclear palsy or multisystem atrophy. IBZM is a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist detectable by SPECT. We compared IBZM-SPECT results with clinical response to subcutaneous injections of the D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (38 patients) and long-term dopamimetic therapy (31 patients). IBZM-SPECT results predicted a positive or negative response to apomorphine in 30 of 34 patients (apomorphine response in four patients was equivocal) and response to dopamimetic therapy in 27 of 31 patients. Thus, imaging of dopamine D2 receptors using readily available IBZM-SPECT seems to distinguish between L-dopa-responsive (most likely Parkinson's disease of Lewy body type) and L-dopa-unresponsive parkinsonism in patients not previously treated with dopamimetic drugs."}
{"id": "1536267", "title": "Update on the dementia spectrum of depression.", "content": "Update on the dementia spectrum of depression. The primary focus of this review is to examine the usual dichotomy between depressive dementia as functional and reversible and degenerative dementia as organic and irreversible. The authors propose viewing depression, cognitive impairment, and degenerative dementia as intersecting continua. They define five prototypical groups along these continua: 1) major depression without depressive dementia, 2) depressive dementia, 3) degenerative dementia without depression, 4) depression of degenerative dementia, and 5) independent co-occurrence of degenerative dementia and depression. Clinical, neuropsychological, and neurobiological studies comparing these groupings were identified by a computerized literature search covering the past 20 years. References were selected for review if they compared at least two groups. Degenerative dementia was limited to the Alzheimer type. No studies clearly included all five of the prototypical groups. There are methodological problems with each type of research reviewed, but the consensus of the research is that severe cognitive impairment of depression is associated with a variety of organic abnormalities. Depending on the length of follow-up, depressive dementia may not be as reversible as previously thought. The continuum viewpoint encourages longitudinal clinical follow-up for early detection and alleviation of incipient depressive and dementing symptoms. Hypotheses of overlapping pathophysiological mechanisms rather than differential diagnosis become an important research focus. The authors discuss three different types of relationships for future research: 1) interactions, 2) consequences of disease or treatment, and 3) necessary but not sufficient pathophysiology."}
{"id": "1527902", "title": "[Diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission CT in Alzheimer-type dementia].", "content": "[Diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission CT in Alzheimer-type dementia]. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 123I-IMP in Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD), we studied 46 ATD patients and 23 healthy controls. The patients fulfilled the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria for probable or definite ATD and were classified as having mild, moderate, and severe ATD by neuropsychological examinations. To assess regional cerebral blood flow, we performed qualitative SPECT image analysis without any knowledge of the subject's clinical classification. The image was regarded as abnormal if cerebral blood flow was reduced in the unilateral or bilateral temporoparietal association areas, with or without any reduction of flow in other brain regions. The diagnostic sensitivity (abnormal image/patient) of 123I-IMP SPECT in mild, moderate, and severe ATD was 67%, 86%, and 92%, respectively. The specificity (normal image/control) was 91%, because an abnormal image was found in only 2/23 healthy controls. Eight ATD patients without reduced temporoparietal perfusion showed normal perfusion or frontal hypoperfusion. These results suggest that 123I-IMP SPECT may provide an accurate and sensitive diagnostic marker for ATD. The detection of these characteristic marker for ATD. The detection of these characteristic abnormalities of cerebral perfusion could well be applied to the clinical diagnosis of ATD."}
{"id": "1513491", "title": "SPECT and dementia.", "content": "SPECT and dementia."}
{"id": "1508299", "title": "Reduced temporal lobe blood flow in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Reduced temporal lobe blood flow in Alzheimer's disease. We used single photon emission computed tomography with the blood flow tracer [123I]N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) to study regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 50 mildly and moderately demented Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients to evaluate rCBF as a function of disease severity. Relative rCBF (normalized to occipital cortex) was significantly lower than controls in temporal cortex for both mildly and moderately demented patients. Similar numbers of patients in both groups demonstrated perfusion abnormalities in temporal neocortex. Parietal cortex was more variably involved with greater numbers of moderately than mildly demented patients showing perfusion abnormalities. Relative rCBF in dirsolateral frontal cortex was reduced only in the moderately demented patients. Disease severity, as measured by the Mini Mental Status Examination, was associated with relative rCBF only in dorsolateral frontal and parietal cortex. These results suggest that the temporal lobes are the first neocortical regions affected by AD and that other cortical areas become involved as the disease progresses."}
{"id": "1506442", "title": "Increased cerebral blood flow in anemic patients on long-term hemodialytic treatment.", "content": "Increased cerebral blood flow in anemic patients on long-term hemodialytic treatment. CBF was measured in 15 patients on chronic hemodialytic treatment. CBF was measured with xenon-133 inhalation using single photon emission tomography. In addition, computerized tomography (CT) and a neurological examination were done prior to hemodialysis. Mean CBF was 66.2 +/- 17.3 (SD) ml 100 g-1 min-1, which was significantly higher (t-test, p less than 0.05) than for an age-matched control group (54.7 +/- 10.2 ml 100 g-1 min-1). However, the hematocrit for the patients was considerably lower, 0.30 +/- 0.07, as compared to 0.43 +/- 0.03 in the controls. A significant negative correlation was observed between CBF and the hematocrit (y = -1.79x + 120.7, r = -0.71, p less than 0.01). Calculating CBF from this equation in the dialyzed patients using a hematocrit of 0.43 yielded a mean CBF value of 43.7 ml 100 g-1 min-1, i.e., 20% below the expected. Two patients showed a focal CBF decrease. CT showed central or cortical atrophy in five patients, and two had small hypodense lesions. The neurological examination revealed slight to moderate dementia in seven cases. Although mean CBF was found to be increased by 21% as compared to the control group, an even higher CBF level would have been expected to outweigh the decreased oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. The findings suggest a lowered metabolic demand of the brain tissue, probably due to subtle brain damage."}
{"id": "1498808", "title": "In vivo imaging of cerebral muscarinic receptors with I-123 QNB and SPECT: studies in normal subjects and patients with dementia.", "content": "In vivo imaging of cerebral muscarinic receptors with I-123 QNB and SPECT: studies in normal subjects and patients with dementia."}
{"id": "1498807", "title": "Diagnostic value of HMPAO-SPECT and topographic analysis of EEG in dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Diagnostic value of HMPAO-SPECT and topographic analysis of EEG in dementia of Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "1498576", "title": "A comparison of FDG PET and IQNB SPECT in normal subjects and in patients with dementia.", "content": "A comparison of FDG PET and IQNB SPECT in normal subjects and in patients with dementia. Prior studies of patients with dementia have found similar qualitative patterns of cerebral glucose utilization with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET and of putative muscarinic receptor activity with [123I]3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate (IQNB). This raised doubts about whether receptor binding determines IQNB distribution and whether clinical information in IQNB scans is unique. To compare the methods directly, 4 normal volunteers and 7 patients with dementia underwent FDG PET and high-resolution IQNB SPECT scans. In normal subjects, relative regional activity from the paired scans was only weakly correlated (r = 0.29). Some regions (e.g., thalamus, frontal cortex) showed a clear disassociation of activity. In demented patients, IQNB scans tended to show larger defects than FDG scans, although one focal defect appeared only with PET. Results suggest that IQNB SPECT data are not primarily related to general physiological activity or regional cerebral blood flow and are not explained by attenuation or volume-averaging artifacts. Further studies should investigate whether IQNB scanning is a more sensitive in vivo measure of the extent of Alzheimer's disease than is FDG PET."}
{"id": "1496187", "title": "[Use of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in the study of AIDS-correlated dementia].", "content": "[Use of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT in the study of AIDS-correlated dementia]. AIDS dementia complex is a well-defined neurological manifestation of the HIV infection. Its anatomo-pathological pattern is cerebral atrophy, grey and white matter abnormalities and vascular changes, and the main symptom is progressive dementia. SPECT with Tc 99m HMPAO has proved to be an useful tool in studying Alzheimer and multi-infarct dementia, and its use has been recently proposed in AIDS-dementia. We studied with Tc 99m HMPAO 57 Pts (11 HIV+, 26 ARC, 17 AIDS) and control group of 7 drug-addicted seronegative Pts. We found positive results in 45% SPECT, 18% CT, 0% neurological tests of dementia in HIV+ phase, versus 52%, 41, 20% in ARC phase and 94%, 88% and 76% in AIDS phase, while all control Pts were negative. Control group is too small to exclude with all possibility of doubt cerebral blood flow impairment caused by drug damage but nevertheless we think that SPECT examination with 99 mTc HMPAO has an important role in assessing CBF changes in earlier stages of AIDS disease. These changes are probably forerunners of definitive cerebral damage and may be important markers of the advancement of disease."}
{"id": "1495679", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99Tcm-HMPAO in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99Tcm-HMPAO in Alzheimer's disease. Brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPET) using 99mTcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) was performed in 37 patients satisfying the standard clinical criteria of Alzheimer's disease (AD), correlating results with patient's age of onset, duration of illness, severity of dementia, neuropsychological impairment, computed tomography (CT) and EEG findings. All patients had abnormal SPET: 23 were bilaterally symmetric, 10 were bilaterally asymmetric and four showed unilateral low regional cerebral perfusion. Low perfusion in bilateral parietal regions was the most consistent finding and was present alone or with other abnormal regions in 31 patients (84%). The only significant clinical correlation was found between asymmetric SPET changes and onset of disease before the age of 65 years. Fifty per cent of patients with presenile onset, but only 19% with senile onset had asymmetric low regional cerebral perfusion. Fifteen of the 36 patients had normal brain CT scans, and 9 of 31 patients receiving EEG examination had normal results. Although clinical evaluation is the most valuable diagnostic tool, brain SPET is a sensitive test for physiological investigation in AD."}
{"id": "1491839", "title": "Cognition and 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Cognition and 99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT in Parkinson's disease. 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of brain was performed in 43 unselected patients with Parkinson's disease to evaluate whether low cerebral perfusion on SPECT correlated with cognitive impairment in the patients. All patients received neurological, Mini-Mental State Examination and a neuropsychological assessment. Eighteen (41.9%) of the 43 patients were demented. Thirty patients (69.8%) had abnormal SPECT: 17 had perfusion defects in cortical regions, eight in basal ganglia and five in both regions. Of the 22 patients with abnormal cortical perfusion, 15 (68.2%) were demented; only three (14.3%) of the 21 patients without cortical defect were demented (P < 0.01). Twelve of the 15 demented patients had low perfusion in the parietal region alone or in parietal and occipital regions. The cortical perfusion defects, present in 22 (51.2%) Parkinson's patients, are highly correlated with cognitive impairment. The pattern of SPECT abnormality in most demented patients with Parkinson's disease is similar to that seen in Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that the underlying pathophysiology for dementia in patients with Parkinson's disease may be similar to that in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1489640", "title": "Functional imaging of the brain using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT).", "content": "Functional imaging of the brain using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). The use of tracers is an important technique available for studying cerebral function. Changes in 'signal' are large, but as a result of its photon limited nature, the measurement of this signal is limited: spatially, temporally and in terms of accuracy. The most commonly used single photon (SPECT) system (as apposed to positron) is that with a rotating gamma camera, although multi-headed devices and special purpose rings are now also commonly available. The problems of obtaining good functional information are however identical. Firstly the devices need to be optimised in terms of resolution and sensitivity. Secondly several sources of error, notably those associated with scatter, attenuation and limited spatial resolution, need to be corrected, with the aim of obtaining quantitative estimates of radioactivity concentration. Finally such quantitative estimates need to be converted into meaningful estimates of physiological variables by use of an appropriate model. The general aim of many SPECT measurements is to estimate blood flow for example using Tc-99m labelled HMPAO as a tracer. Good results have been obtained in many clinical conditions: stroke, dementia, tumour and epilepsy, for example. Many other tracers are also available, for example to measure density of receptor sites. The use of SPECT in conjunction with other techniques after image registration is suggested as being an essential tool in extracting maximal clinical information."}
{"id": "1486017", "title": "Neuroreceptor changes in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Neuroreceptor changes in Alzheimer disease. Multiple neuroreceptor changes are present in Alzheimer disease. These observations are based upon analysis from autopsy brain tissue or more seldom from neurosurgical biopsies. The drawback of information from autopsy material is that the receptor changes represent the final stage of the dementia disorder. It might therefore be somewhat misleading to base therapeutic strategies on these findings. Hopefully, new imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) will provide valuable new in vivo data from the earlier course of the disease. Among the transmitter systems changed in Alzheimer disease, the cholinergic system shows the most consistent deficits. Cholinergic muscarinic receptors seem to be preserved in Alzheimer brains while nicotinic receptors show losses. The number of serotonin (both 5-HT1 and 5-HT2) and glutamate receptors are also reduced. Interestingly, kainate receptors increase in number while NMDA receptors are reduced in cortical Alzheimer tissue. Common for all receptor changes in Alzheimer disease is that the changes in number of binding sites are seen while the affinity constant remains unchanged. alpha- and beta-receptors and dopamine receptors are relatively preserved in Alzheimer brains. Among the neuropeptides, losses in receptor sites have been reported for somatostatin and neuropeptide Y (NPY). Interestingly, the number of CRF receptors are increased in cortical areas of Alzheimer brains. Thus, the muscarinic (M1), kainate, and CRF receptors show receptor compensatory reactions probably due to degenerative reactions in Alzheimer disease. Few attempts have been made to visualize neuroreceptors in vivo in Alzheimer patients. The field, however, is in dynamic progress. Reduced numbers of nicotinic receptors have been visualized in the brain of Alzheimer patients by PET and [11C]-nicotine and confirm earlier observations in post-mortem brain tissues. A lower uptake of (R)(+)[11C]nicotine compared to (S)(-)[11C]nicotine in patients with a mild form of dementia might be a possible diagnostic marker. SPECT studies indicate preserved muscarinic receptors in Alzheimer brains. Analysis of neuroreceptor changes in peripheral nonneural tissues have shown a reduction in nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in peripheral lymphocytes obtained from Alzheimer patients."}
{"id": "1485523", "title": "Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down's syndrome: the relationship between regional cerebral blood flow equivalents and dementia.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down's syndrome: the relationship between regional cerebral blood flow equivalents and dementia. Twenty adult patients suffering from Down's syndrome (DS) were recruited from hospitals and the community, together with 14 age- and sex-matched controls of normal intelligence. Dementia was diagnosed in patients using a structured psychiatric and physical examination as well as a carer interview and case notes. All patients and controls were imaged using single photon emission computerized tomography with 99mTc-exametazime. Four patients were clinically demented and all of them showed regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes commonly found in patients with Alzheimer's disease, namely bilateral temporo-parietal deficits. These changes were also observed in about half of the patients without clinical evidence of dementia, but in none of the healthy controls. Across the group of patients, temporo-parietal rCBF deficits were associated with evidence of deterioration, but not with advancing age."}
{"id": "1479398", "title": "A study of regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive performance in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A study of regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive performance in Alzheimer's disease. Thirty five patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 35 controls matched for age, sex and handedness were investigated using single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) with 99m technetium HMPAO. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was assessed semi-quantitatively in 18 cortical and 4 subcortical areas by normalising mean information density in each region to cerebellar mean information density. Analysis revealed significantly reduced rCBF to temporal, parietal, frontal and left occipital cortex in the patients whilst blood flow to subcortical areas showed no differences between the 2 groups. In addition, significant left-sided cortical hypoperfusion was seen in the DAT group but not in controls. When patients were sub-divided on the basis of disease severity, those with mild disease showed temporal, parietal and left frontal changes with more severely affected patients also showing right frontal and left occipital involvement. rCBF patterns did not distinguish between presenile and senile onset cases once duration and severity of illness were controlled. Eight cortical areas were also rated visually for perfusion deficits on a simple 4 point scale. Perfusion deficits were detected in 34 of 35 patients but in only 4 of 35 controls. In the DAT group significant correlations were found between many of the neuropsychological tests used and rCBF. Memory correlated with left temporal activity, praxis, perception, object assembly and block design with right parietal activity and language with activity throughout the left hemisphere. Significant correlations were also seen between subcortical and cortical blood flow, possibly explaining the correlations observed between many of the neuropsychological tests and thalamic blood flow."}
{"id": "1468075", "title": "CNS changes in neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease: CT, MR, and SPECT findings.", "content": "CNS changes in neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease: CT, MR, and SPECT findings. CNS changes in three cases of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease were observed by computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The present study illustrates the reversibility of lesions in the brain stem with MR, while CT failed to show any abnormal findings in the region of the disease. We conclude that MR is a quite useful method to detect lesions in the brain stem and to evaluate the effects of treatment in neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease. SPECT is also an important method for the evaluation of dementia recognized in neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease."}
{"id": "1467580", "title": "The role of nuclear medicine in neurology and psychiatry.", "content": "The role of nuclear medicine in neurology and psychiatry. Nuclear medicine has a place in the study of brain trauma, brain tumours, stroke, dementia epilepsy and depression. The development of new tracers labelled with widely available radionuclides, such as technetium-99m (99Tc) and iodine-123, has played a key role here. Practical methodology can now be implemented in the routine setting. Additional applications are reviewed in the context of brain death, encephalitis, post-viral fatigue syndrome, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia."}
{"id": "1459978", "title": "Comparison of SPECT applications in neurology and psychiatry.", "content": "Comparison of SPECT applications in neurology and psychiatry. The following presentation provides an overview of SPECT brain imaging applications in both neurologic and psychiatric disorders. Specific findings in cerebrovascular disease, dementia, and epilepsy are described in order to highlight the role SPECT plays in distinguishing primary organic disease from primary psychopathology. Through case examples, new applications of three-dimensional SPECT rCBF imaging that could play a major role in defining CNS network abnormalities in major depressive disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder are elucidated. The role of network imaging analysis across groups in psychiatric subjects is contrasted to its roles in neurologic disorders. The degree to which both neurologic and psychiatric pathology seen on SPECT exceeds that observed through structural modalities is defined."}
{"id": "1431975", "title": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and dementia in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and dementia in Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "1431961", "title": "SPECT findings in Parkinson's disease associated with dementia.", "content": "SPECT findings in Parkinson's disease associated with dementia. Dementia in Parkinson's disease is thought to be attributable not only to subcortical lesions but also to cortical alterations, especially frontal lobe dysfunction. To evaluate cortical function, the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was estimated of 13 demented and 13 non-demented age matched patients with Parkinson's disease compared with that of 10 age matched controls using I-123 iodoamphetamine single photon emission tomography (IMP-SPECT). The rCBF of the nondemented Parkinson's patients showed no significant differences from that of the control subjects. In the demented patients, the bilateral frontal and parietal and left temporal regional blood flow was significantly less than in the controls. Four demented patients showed isolated frontal hypoperfusion, 8 showed fronto-parietal hypoperfusion, and 1 showed isolated parietal hypoperfusion. Frontal hypoperfusion was therefore present in 12 of the 13 demented patients, and this finding agrees with the frontal lobe dysfunction hypothesis. Parietal rCBF had a significant positive correlation with cortical functions such as calculation and language ability in the MMSE scores. The parietal and temporal reduction in rCBF probably reflects the presence of Alzheimer pathology, cortical Lewy body disease, or both."}
{"id": "1424356", "title": "Brain SPECT imaging in progressive aphasia.", "content": "Brain SPECT imaging in progressive aphasia. Progressive aphasia without dementia is a relatively uncommon neurobehavioral syndrome. The initial presentation of progressive aphasia without cognitive impairment may pose a diagnostic dilemma. The authors report a patient with progressive aphasia. The initial neuro-imaging studies (MRI, CT) were not diagnostically helpful. However, brain SPECT imaging with Tc-99m HMPAO clearly demonstrated a left temporal lobe abnormality. This report discusses the potential clinical usefulness of brain SPECT imaging in the evaluation of neurobehavioral disorders."}
{"id": "1417421", "title": "[Clinical and lesion-related bases of alcoholic brain damage].", "content": "[Clinical and lesion-related bases of alcoholic brain damage]. Alcohol-induced brain damage is known since long, with classical descriptions of lesions. There is no constant correlation between them and any of the clinical presentations of chronic intoxication. New neuroimaging techniques, neuropsychology and basic investigation have supplied with new data. The so-called alcoholic dementia and its possible reversibility are major issues of this problem. This paper reviews radiological, pathological, vascular and neuropsychological studies related to this point."}
{"id": "1407580", "title": "Confusion and memory loss from capsular genu infarction: a thalamocortical disconnection syndrome?", "content": "Confusion and memory loss from capsular genu infarction: a thalamocortical disconnection syndrome? We examined six patients with an abrupt change in behavior after infarction involving the inferior genu of the internal capsule. The acute syndrome featured fluctuating alertness, inattention, memory loss, apathy, abulia, and psychomotor retardation, suggesting frontal lobe dysfunction. Contralateral hemiparesis and dysarthria were generally mild, except when the infarct extended into the posterior limb. Neuropsychological testing in five patients with left-sided infarcts revealed severe verbal memory loss. Additional cognitive deficits consistent with dementia occurred in four patients. A right-sided infarct caused transient impairment in visuospatial memory. Functional brain imaging in three patients showed a focal reduction in hemispheric perfusion most prominent in the ipsilateral inferior and medial frontal cortex. We infer that the capsular genu infarct interrupted the inferior and anterior thalamic peduncles, resulting in functional deactivation of the ipsilateral frontal cortex. These observations suggest that one mechanism for cognitive deterioration from a lacunar infarct is thalamocortical disconnection of white-matter tracts, in some instances leading to \"strategic-infarct dementia.\""}
{"id": "1389566", "title": "[Diffuse reduced uptake in 99m-Tc-HM-PAO SPECT and high level of neuron-specific enolase in cerebrospinal fluid in the early stage of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease].", "content": "[Diffuse reduced uptake in 99m-Tc-HM-PAO SPECT and high level of neuron-specific enolase in cerebrospinal fluid in the early stage of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease]. We report an autopsy-diagnosed case of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD) showing diffuse reduced uptake in SPECT and a high level of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A 75-year-old woman with a 3-month history of progressive gait ataxia and dementia was examined. Four months after onset of the disease, she developed an akinetic mutism with normal CT and MRI. She was admitted for further examination, and electroencephalography showed periodic synchronous discharges. NSE in the CSF showed a high level at 90.6 ng/ml, and SPECT showed diffuse reduced uptake in the supratentorial region, with relatively spared uptake in the cerebellum. She died 13 months after onset of the disease, and the autopsy diagnosis was CJD. SPECT data and the level of NSE in CSF seem to be useful for clinical diagnosis and pathogenetic analysis in the early stage of CJD."}
{"id": "1361744", "title": "Methods for detecting early signs of AIDS dementia complex in asymptomatic HIV-1-infected subjects.", "content": "Methods for detecting early signs of AIDS dementia complex in asymptomatic HIV-1-infected subjects. To determine the optimal diagnostic procedures for identifying early signs of AIDS dementia complex (ADC) in asymptomatic HIV-1-infected individuals, in order to prevent further cognitive function impairment by early treatment. Study patients had been referred electively and consecutively to hospital; all had been referred for the first time and gave informed consent. Inclusion criteria were (1) lack of history and/or symptoms of psychosis and neurological disorders; (2) lack of active viral, protozoan or fungal pathology; (3) abstinence from heroin and/or cocaine for at least 6 months before baseline evaluation. Subjects were seen at the L. Spallanzani Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Rome, Italy between March 1989 and March 1991. Eighty-two asymptomatic HIV-1-infected subjects: 41 drug users, 27 homosexuals and 14 heterosexuals. All subjects were evaluated using Wechsler-Bellevue I, Benton C form and Bender tests. Thirty-nine subjects underwent single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and 12 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The immunological status of each subject was determined. On psychometric testing, 23 out of the 82 (28%) asymptomatic subjects had a mental decay percentage (MD%) > or = 20%. Cerebral perfusion abnormalities were detected in 31 out of 39 (79.48%) subjects who underwent SPECT; MRI abnormalities were observed in seven out of 12 (58%) subjects. Twelve out of 23 subjects with MD% > or = 20, 15 out of 29 subjects with SPECT abnormalities and four out of seven patients with MRI abnormalities had total CD4+ lymphocyte counts > or = 500 x 10(6)/l. The high incidence of abnormal SPECT and of MD% > or = 20 in asymptomatic HIV-1-infected patients, and the lack of correlation between immunological status and degree of mental decay, SPECT and MRI abnormalities raise many questions about subclinical HIV-1 neurological disease."}
{"id": "1349930", "title": "[Affected siblings with Alzheimer's disease had missense mutation of codon 717 in amyloid precursor protein gene].", "content": "[Affected siblings with Alzheimer's disease had missense mutation of codon 717 in amyloid precursor protein gene]. Using reverse genetic techniques, the gene responsible for familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) is one of the clues to identify the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently a missense mutation in the APP (amyloid precursor protein) gene (generally this mutation was called APP717) was detected in 2 Caucasian AD families and the same mutation was found in 3 Japanese AD families. We experienced brother's cases who were diagnosed as AD. Both of them and one normal person of the next generation had APP717. The first symptom of the elder brother (case 1) was forgetfulness at 52 years old, then dementia was advanced. In his clinical course there were characteristic findings such as the mirror sign, pseudodialog and jargon which has been rarely described in the Japanese literature. Finally he died of pneumonia at 57 years old. He was diagnosed as AD pathologically and physical findings of brain CT, SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) and EEG supported this diagnosis clinically. The first symptom of the younger brother (case 2) was also forgetfulness at 45 years old, then severe dementia was advanced, at last he died of pneumonia at age 53 old. On the other hand the mother of the brothers died of severe dementia, so it was suspected that brothers died of severe dementia, so it was suspected that she had had AD. The clinical courses and pathological findings were thought to be typical of AD, namely there were no significant differences in comparison with other cases of FAD and sporadic AD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1342662", "title": "[SPECT and depressive pseudo-dementia. A case report].", "content": "[SPECT and depressive pseudo-dementia. A case report]. The SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography), a new advance in medical imagery, allows the measure of cerebral blood flow and could be of interest in studying mental disorders. We report here a case of pseudo-dementia for which a SPECT has been performed before and after treatment. Mrs V., a 49 years old female, has been suffering from a dementia-like syndrome for several months. She is divorced, has two children, lives with a boy-friend, and has been working in a factory for 25 years. The first psychiatric disorders began three years ago with a gradual apragmatism and muteness. A neuroleptic treatment gave no result. One year later, without any reason, Mrs V. recovered a normal way of life. Nevertheless, from time to time, she had some periods of subexcitation. Few months later, she relapsed in her previous state of apragmatism and muteness. During a new hospitalization, neuroleptic treatment is tried again without any success. Mrs V. is then referred to us for medical screening of a dementia syndrome. In the Unit, it is difficult to communicate with her; she looks sad or amimic and has motor stereotypies (like rubbing her feet continuously against the floor). She has polidypsia and glutonny. Neurologic examination is normal, as well as EEG, X Scan, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. The Folstein Mini Mental State score is 9/30.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1342021", "title": "Lateral hemispheric asymmetries in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) assessed by I-123 IMP SPECT imaging: a preliminary report.", "content": "Lateral hemispheric asymmetries in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) assessed by I-123 IMP SPECT imaging: a preliminary report. Lateral hemispheric asymmetries (LHA) of I-123 IMP single photon emission tomography (SPECT) in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) were investigated. Significant left-right asymmetries were found by SPECT imaging in 13/17 SDAT patients. LHA were found in mild as well as in moderate or severe cases of SDAT. No relationships were found between LHA and the duration of illness or between LHA and the severity of disease, suggesting that LHA reflect subtypes more than the evolutive stages of the disease. LHA was more frequent in right hemisphere (10 of 17 cases) and all male subjects were right hemisphere damaged type which is not consistent with past reports."}
{"id": "1289914", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia by SPECT].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of dementia by SPECT]."}
{"id": "2061629", "title": "[Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders. 5. Diagnosis of dementia due to cerebrovascular disturbances].", "content": "[Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders. 5. Diagnosis of dementia due to cerebrovascular disturbances]."}
{"id": "2058505", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow study with 123I-IMP in patients with degenerative dementia.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow study with 123I-IMP in patients with degenerative dementia. Regional cerebral blood flow was evaluated by single-photon emission CT (SPECT) with 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) in 11 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type, three patients with progressive dementia and motor neuron disease, and eight healthy control subjects. Regional blood flow measurements in the bilateral frontal, parietal association, and temporal cortices were lower in the Alzheimer dementia patients than in controls. Flow deficits in the parietal association cortex were demonstrated in all patients with Alzheimer-type dementia; these deficits were correlated with the severity of disease. Lateral hemispheric asymmetry was seen in nine of 11 patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. In all three patients with progressive dementia and motor neuron disease, flow deficits were demonstrated in the bilateral frontal and temporal cortices, but no flow deficits were seen in the parietal association cortex. Brain SPECT with 123I-IMP may be useful in the differential diagnosis and evaluation of the severity of degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "2036616", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the routine evaluation of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the routine evaluation of Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral blood flow was studied in 7 patients with clinically suspected Alzheimer's disease and 10 normal controls by single photon computed emission tomography (SPECT) using HM-PAO. All patients with Alzheimer's disease and no controls had parietal lobe hypoperfusion which was usually bilateral. In patients with more severe dementia hypoperfusion extended into the frontal lobes. Parietal lobe hypoperfusion corresponds to parietal lobe degeneration which is the one of the first neocortical regions to show the typical degenerative changes of Alzheimer's disease. SPECT with HM-PAO is a non-invasive investigation available in most nuclear medicine departments and complements existing tests in the routine evaluation of patients presenting with dementia."}
{"id": "2035940", "title": "Imaging dementia with SPECT.", "content": "Imaging dementia with SPECT."}
{"id": "2032432", "title": "Quantitative I-123-IMP brain SPECT and neuropsychological testing in AIDS dementia.", "content": "Quantitative I-123-IMP brain SPECT and neuropsychological testing in AIDS dementia. We performed I-123-IMP SPECT brain imaging on seven mildly demented AIDS patients and seven normal subjects. In an attempt to detect and quantitate regions of decreased I-123-IMP uptake, pixel intensity histograms of normalized SPECT images at the basal ganglia level were analyzed for the fraction of pixels in the lowest quartile of the intensity range. This fraction (F) averaged 17.5% (S.D. = 4.6) in the AIDS group and 12.6% (S.D. = 5.1) in the normal group (p less than .05). Six of the AIDS patients underwent neuropsychological testing (NPT). NPT showed the patients to have a variety of mild abnormalities. Regression analysis of NPT scores versus F yielded a correlation coefficient of .80 (p less than .05). We conclude that analysis of I-123-IMP SPECT image pixel intensity distribution is potentially sensitive in detecting abnormalities associated with AIDS dementia and may correlate with the severity of dementia as measured by NPT."}
{"id": "2023461", "title": "[Brain photon emission tomography. Value of the corticocerebellar index and gammagraphic patterns in Alzheimer's disease and other diseases].", "content": "[Brain photon emission tomography. Value of the corticocerebellar index and gammagraphic patterns in Alzheimer's disease and other diseases]. Brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-HMPAO is a diagnostic tool for evaluating regional cerebral blood flow. Recently, the diagnostic possibilities of the method are being investigated in some neurologic disorders, such as cerebrovascular accidents, seizures and dementia. This work has been carried out with 54 subjects, 9 healthy volunteers and 45 patients (31 dementia and 14 epileptics), in order to evaluate gammagraphic patterns and the utility of cortico/cerebellar activity indexes. An interesting diagnostic finding is a significant decrease (p less than 0.001) in perfusion of temporoparietal regions in the patients with Alzheimer's disease in relation with the healthy volunteers' group. We have not found significant changes in perfusion in the group of epileptic patients during the interictal phase. We conclude emphasizing the interest of the SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia."}
{"id": "2019279", "title": "A comparative technetium 99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime SPET study in different types of dementia.", "content": "A comparative technetium 99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime SPET study in different types of dementia. Regional cerebral perfusion was evaluated by single photon emission computed tomography (SPET) using technetium 99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) as a tracer, in 13 control subjects and 44 age-matched patients suffering from dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT, n = 19), presumed Pick's disease (n = 5), idiopathic Parkinson's disease with dementia (DPD, n = 15) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP, n = 5). HMPAO uptake was measured in the superior frontal, inferior frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortices, and the perfusion values were expressed as cortical/cerebellar activity ratios. As compared with controls, tracer uptake ratios in the DAT group were significantly reduced over all cortical regions, with the largest defects in the parieto-temporal and superior frontal cortices. A marked hypoperfusion affecting the superior and inferior frontal cortices was found in Pick's disease, whereas a mild but significant hypoperfusion was observed only in the superior frontal cortex of patients with PSP. In the DPD group, HMPAO uptake was significantly reduced in the parietal, temporal and occipital cortices, but not in the frontal cortex. These results show that DAT and DPD share an opposite anteroposterior HMPAO uptake defect as compared with the Pick's and PSP groups."}
{"id": "2008215", "title": "[Frontal lobe dementia].", "content": "[Frontal lobe dementia]."}
{"id": "1997491", "title": "MRI-PET correlation in three dimensions using a volume-of-interest (VOI) atlas.", "content": "MRI-PET correlation in three dimensions using a volume-of-interest (VOI) atlas. Quantitative interpretation of functional images (PET or SPECT) is hampered by poor spatial resolution, low counting statistics, and, for many tracers, low contrast between different brain structures of interest. Furthermore, normal tracer distributions can be severely disrupted by such gross pathologies as stroke, tumor, and dementia. Hence, the complementary anatomical information provided by CT or MRI is essential for accurate and reproducible regional analysis of functional data. We have developed methods for the simultaneous three-dimensional display and analysis of image volumes from MRI and PET. A general algorithm for defining the affine transformation between two equivalent point ensembles has been adapted for the purpose of registering MRI and PET image volumes by means of a simple fiducial arrangement. In addition, we have extended previous MRI-based computerized atlas methodology to three dimensions. The native atlas planes were spaced at 2 mm intervals, sufficient axial sampling to permit the generation of oblique planar sections through the atlas space. This will allow for an infinite number of angulations and axial offsets in two-dimensional region-of-interest (ROI) templates, all derived from the same master three-dimensional volume-of-interest (VOI) atlas and therefore maintaining topographical consistency throughout. These ROI templates may be selected to match the image orientation for conventional two-dimensional segmentation and data extraction."}
{"id": "1996428", "title": "Studies of central nervous system disorders with single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography: evolution over the past 2 decades.", "content": "Studies of central nervous system disorders with single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography: evolution over the past 2 decades. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was introduced in the 1960s to detect breakdowns in the blood-brain barrier and was replaced by x-ray computed tomography in the mid-1970s. The development of the deoxyglucose (DG) technique to measure regional cerebral glucose metabolism by employing either autoradiography, using 14CDG, or positron emission tomography (PET), using 18FDG, added a major dimension to the investigation of brain function. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the FDG-PET technique was widely used to examine a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. It soon became apparent that functional imaging was more sensitive than anatomic imaging in detecting abnormalities of the brain related to aging, dementia, tumors, seizures, cerebral vascular accidents, and psychiatric problems. Because of its complexity and the cost involved, PET was used in a limited number of centers in the United States. However, the success of PET resulted in the resurgence of interest in SPECT as an alternative technology after almost a decade. This became possible because of the synthesis of iodine 123- and technetium 99m-labeled radiopharmaceuticals to determine regional cerebral blood flow. Since blood flow and metabolism are coupled in most pathological states, patterns of abnormality noted on SPECT were similar to those seen on PET in many disorders. Since the introduction of high resolution SPECT imaging instruments, the role of SPECT has been further enhanced. The successful synthesis of both positron and single emitting radioligands to image dopamine and other receptors has started a new era in neurosciences and will have a far-reaching impact on the day-to-day practice of neuropsychiatry."}
{"id": "1996426", "title": "Functional brain imaging in the evaluation of psychiatric illness.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in the evaluation of psychiatric illness. In the past century, the field of psychiatry has undergone major changes. During this time, significant advancements in both diagnosis and treatment have occurred. Medical brain imaging using structural and functional brain imaging techniques have contributed, in part, to a better basic understanding of psychiatric disease and to an improving diagnostic approach. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging have supplied limited, but useful insight regarding structural alterations in schizophrenia and the affective disorders. Position emission tomography imaging has already made a major contribution in the assessment of schizophrenia and affective disorders. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), which is currently more widely available, should contribute more to psychiatric disease evaluation in the future. Recent advances in SPECT technology in the areas of improved instrumentation--such as multidetector and ring detector systems and new radiopharmaceuticals including new rCBF markers and receptor site imaging agents--have contributed to significant improvements in the SPECT imaging technique. At the present time, SPECT has been shown to be feasible and useful in the evaluation of acute and chronic psychiatric and demented states. As SPECT technology continues to evolve, further refinements in this diagnostic capability can be anticipated."}
{"id": "1993017", "title": "Frontal impairment and hypoperfusion in neuroacanthocytosis.", "content": "Frontal impairment and hypoperfusion in neuroacanthocytosis. Cerebral blood flow tomography, by xenon 133 inhalation or HMPAO (99mTc-d, l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime) technetium Tc 99m injection, revealed a severe hypoperfusion in both frontal lobes of a 40-year-old woman with confirmed neuroacanthocytosis. This finding occurred in conjunction with neuropsychological deficits consistent with selective frontal lobe dysfunction. This observation is the first documentation of this type of dementia in neuroacanthocytosis."}
{"id": "1993008", "title": "The distribution of cerebral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo in patients with dementia. A controlled study with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "The distribution of cerebral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo in patients with dementia. A controlled study with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography. A high-affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist, 123IQNB (3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate labeled with iodine 123), was used with single photon emission computed tomography to image muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in 14 patients with dementia and in 11 healthy controls. High-resolution single photon emission computed tomographic scanning was performed 21 hours after the intravenous administration of approximately 5 mCi of IQNB. In normal subjects, the images of retained ligand showed a consistent regional pattern that correlated with postmortem studies of the relative distribution of muscarinic receptors in the normal human brain, having high radioactivity counts in the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and insular cortex, low counts in the thalamus, and virtually no counts in the cerebellum. Eight of 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease had obvious focal cortical defects in either frontal or posterior temporal cortex. Both patients with a clinical diagnosis of Pick's disease had obvious frontal and anterior temporal defects. A region of interest statistical analysis of relative regional activity revealed a significant reduction bilaterally in the posterior temporal cortex of the patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. This study demonstrates the practicability of acetylcholine receptor imaging with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography. The data suggest that focal abnormalities in muscarinic binding in vivo may characterize some patients with Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease, but further studies are needed to address questions about partial volume artifacts and receptor quantification."}
{"id": "1991619", "title": "MRI, CT, SPECT, PET: their use in diagnosing dementia.", "content": "MRI, CT, SPECT, PET: their use in diagnosing dementia. The differential diagnosis of the dementia syndrome may pose a difficult clinical problem, since the most common dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), is marked by normal laboratory tests. Neuroimaging has played an important role in evaluating the demented patient, and its uses are growing. Computed tomography (CT) is useful for excluding reversible and treatable causes of dementia, such as subdural hematoma and tumor. More recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has improved our ability to diagnose vascular disease and may show the presence of cerebral infarcts and white matter disease not visible on CT. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET), techniques that visualize such cerebral functions as glucose metabolism and blood flow, may provide positive evidence supportive of the diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "1962057", "title": "The role of oxidative abnormalities in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The role of oxidative abnormalities in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease. Several lines of evidence suggest that abnormalities in oxidative metabolism and specifically in mitochondria may play an important role in Alzheimer's disease. Abnormalities of oxidative metabolism exist in this disorder. They have been demonstrated in brain studied in vivo, ex vivo (biopsies), at autopsy, and in non-neural tissues including cultured cells. The abnormalities include a profound deficit in the activity of the ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), which is likely to lead to impaired metabolism of glutamate and might contribute to selective neuronal cell death by excitotoxic mechanisms as well as by direct effects on energy metabolism through its role in the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Abnormalities in oxidative metabolism may be related to the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease by plausible mechanisms for which there is evidence at least in model systems. Hypoxia is known to induce neuropsychological impairments analogous to those which occur in dementing syndromes. Brain, and specifically neurons, are likely to be particularly vulnerable to impairments of oxidative metabolism because of their demonstrated tight dependence on continuous oxidation of glucose to maintain their structure and function. Neuroanatomic studies as well as recent data from CT, PET, and SPECT scanning agree with formulations that suggest the brain areas of greatest vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease include those particularly sensitive to oxidative impairments. Although the mechanisms of accumulation of the classical neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (paired helical filaments, amyloid plaques) are not known, experimental data suggest that metabolic stresses may contribute to the accumulation of these materials. These data include the accumulation of immunoreactivity of anti-paired helical filament antibodies in cells exposed to a mitochondrial poison, the uncoupler CCCP. Impairments of oxidative metabolism are known to impair the metabolism of neurotransmitters involved in Alzheimer's disease; the synthesis of acetylcholine, which is characteristically involved, is exquisitely sensitive to oxidative abnormalities. Experimental evidence suggests that abnormalities of cellular calcium homeostasis, which have been demonstrated in Alzheimer cells, may mediate key deleterious effects of the abnormalities in oxidative metabolism in this disorder. Experimental studies in animals indicate that age potentiates the effects of inherent oxidative abnormalities on the brain, as does cerebrovascular disease. These observations might help to explain the increasing clinical expression of the gene for Alzheimer's disease with age. They are also in accord with difficulties in separating the role of vascular from that of inherent degenerative factors in dementia of later onset. Treatment with L-carnitine, a manipulation designed to mitigate consequences of a mitochondrial abnormality, normalized several non-mitochondrial abnormalities in cultured Alzheimer cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1960540", "title": "Cerebral perfusion patterns in vascular dementia of Binswanger type compared with senile dementia of Alzheimer type: a SPECT study.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion patterns in vascular dementia of Binswanger type compared with senile dementia of Alzheimer type: a SPECT study. Cerebral perfusion patterns in 18 cases with vascular dementia of Binswanger type (VDBT) (8 moderate and 10 severe cases) were compared with 25 cases with senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT) (16 moderate and 9 severe cases) and 14 controls by single photon emission computed tomography using N-isopropyl-p-123I iodoamphetamine (IMP) as a tracer. The cerebral: cerebellar IMP uptake ratio (%) (CCR) was used as a measured of relative cerebral perfusion. The CCRs were about 85-90% in all areas in controls. Moderate VDBT patients showed a remarkable decrease of CCRs in the basal grey region (thalamus and basal ganglia) (right 79%, left 77%) and in the frontal area (right 79%, left 80%) (P less than 0.01). In severe VDBT patients a significant decrease of the CCR was noted in all regions (P less than 0.01). The decrease of mean CCRs in the hemispheres was significantly correlated with the severity of disease determined by psychometric testing. Patients with SDAT showed a significant decrease of the CCR in the parietal (right 71%, left 74%) and right temporal (78%) areas in the moderate stage (P less than 0.01), and further progression of dementia was associated with low perfusion areas extending to the the frontal areas (78%, P less than 0.01). These differences in the perfusion patterns and their changes with progression of the illnesses may be reflected in characteristic clinical features."}
{"id": "1956993", "title": "SPECT regional cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological testing in non-demented HIV-positive drug abusers: preliminary results.", "content": "SPECT regional cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological testing in non-demented HIV-positive drug abusers: preliminary results. 1. Non-demented HIV seropositive and seronegative methadone maintained patients and healthy volunteers (n = 10 each) participated. 2. All subjects underwent SPECT regional cerebral blood flow scanning following injection of Tc-99m HMPAO. All patients underwent neuropsychologic (NP) testing. 3. The left striatum/whole brain blood flow ratio was elevated in the HIV positive group compared to the healthy subjects. Two HIV positive patients had clearly abnormal striatal ratios. Both groups were impaired on NP testing; HIV+ patients were somewhat more impaired on tests of sustained attention and verbal memory. 4. SPECT scanning with Tc-99 HMPAO may identify a subgroup of HIV positive patients with evidence of CNS involvement prior to onset of dementia symptoms."}
{"id": "1955897", "title": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a comparison with dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "(99mTc)-HM-PAO SPECT and cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a comparison with dementia of the Alzheimer type. Regional cerebral perfusion was evaluated by single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using (99mTc)-HM-PAO as a tracer, in thirty Parkinsonian patients with (n = 15) or without (n = 15) dementia, nineteen patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and thirteen control subjects. HM-PAO uptake was measured in the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortex and tracer perfusion was expressed as cortical/cerebellar activity ratios. Regional HM-PAO ratios in nondemented Parkinsonian patients did not differ from controls, whereas in demented patients with Parkinson's disease (DPD) a significant reduction was found in the parietal, temporal and occipital cortex. Tracer uptake ratios were significantly reduced in all regions in the DAT group. Thus DPD and DAT shared a common pattern of marked posterior hypoperfusion, although the perfusion defect was greater and more extensive in the DAT patients."}
{"id": "1945187", "title": "99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT in suspected dementia.", "content": "99Tcm-HMPAO SPECT in suspected dementia. To evaluate the usefulness of 99Tcm-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in suspected dementia we studied 160 consecutively imaged elderly patients from our hospital's memory disorder clinic. The diagnosis was based on clinical data, laboratory tests, neuropsychological examination, computed tomography (CT) and EEG. The patients were divided into six diagnostic categories: Alzheimer's disease (AD), multi-infarct dementia (MID), frontal lobe-type dementia (FTD), vascular encephalopathy not fulfilling the criteria of dementia, specific organic conditions, and psychiatric disorders. SPECT images were assessed without knowing the clinical diagnosis, and divided into AD pattern, FTD pattern, MID pattern, abnormal but unclassifiable, and normal. Twenty-three of 36 patients with clinical AD, 25/33 patients with clinical MID, and 2/5 patients with clinical TFD had compatible SPECT patterns. SPECT distinguished AD from MID in the majority (80%) of cases. In patients with depression or anxiety SPECT was abnormal in 16/21 cases, suggesting that SPECT may give early clues to the presence of an underlying organic disease in such elderly patients. Thus, SPECT with 99Tcm-HMPAO seems to be useful in the diagnosis of suspected dementia."}
{"id": "1938155", "title": "Brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Brain imaging in dementia of the Alzheimer type. Neuroimaging modalities have increased understanding of brain abnormalities in dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and is important in assessment of dementia syndromes by revealing focal disorders, demonstrating potentially treatable conditions, and by documenting progression of disease severity. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have delineated structural changes in DAT, including cerebral atrophy associated with cortical sulci widening and ventricular enlargement, and deep white-matter lesions with periventricular distributions. Positron emission tomography (PET) has demonstrated diminished regional glucose metabolism at parietal and temporal lobes in DAT, while frontal hypometabolism tends to occur in more severe cases. Metabolic dysfunction assessed by PET appears to be the first indication of a degenerative cortical process in DAT, while anatomic changes on CT or MRI may become evident later in the disease process. This selective overview provides an analysis of the current status and future prospects of brain imaging in DAT."}
{"id": "1934830", "title": "Tc-99m HMPAO diffuse pulmonary uptake demonstrated in cigarette smokers.", "content": "Tc-99m HMPAO diffuse pulmonary uptake demonstrated in cigarette smokers. Tc-99m HMPAO, a lipophilic radiotracer used as a brain SPECT imaging agent in the diagnosis of strokes and dementias, is normally localized in the brain and the heart and is excreted through the kidneys (50%) and the hepatobiliary system (14% to 30%). There is no pulmonary localization except in the lungs of smokers. To evaluate pulmonary localization of Tc-99m HMPAO in relation to smoking, 23 patients (aged 27 to 76 years) who were referred for brain imaging studies for strokes or dementias also underwent lung imaging studies immediately following the brain imaging. Anterior and/or posterior lung images were obtained 30 to 45 minutes after IV injection of 15 mCi Tc-99m HMPAO. Diffuse pulmonary uptake was graded semiquantitatively: 3+, pulmonary uptake is equal to or higher than hepatic uptake; 2+, pulmonary uptake is less than hepatic uptake but higher than cardiac uptake; 1+, pulmonary uptake is equal to cardiac uptake; 0, pulmonary uptake is less than cardiac uptake. Each patient's smoking history, including duration and daily consumption, was recorded. Four patients' lung images showed 3+ lung uptake; 6 patients, 2+; 1 patient, 1+; and 12 patients, 0 uptake. Eleven patients with lung uptakes of 3+ to 1+ had a history of cigarette smoking. Twelve patients with lung uptake less than cardiac uptake had no smoking history. Pulmonary distribution of Tc-99m HMPAO is usually negligible in the normal lung. Our results indicate that lung uptake correlates significantly (chi-square = 23, d.f. = 1, P = 0.0001) with smoking history."}
{"id": "1934827", "title": "Cerebral blood flow SPECT with Tc-99m exametazine correlates in AIDS dementia complex stages. A preliminary report.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow SPECT with Tc-99m exametazine correlates in AIDS dementia complex stages. A preliminary report. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is frequently complicated by a variety of disease processes affecting the central nervous system (CNS). One of them is AIDS dementia complex (ADC), which, in the absence of opportunistic infection, is believed to be caused by HIV itself. ADC is characterized by a constellation of cognitive, motor, and behavioral symptoms that progressively get worse. This study was coined to recruit AIDS patients without any opportunistic CNS infection but with signs of CNS abnormality as evidenced by behavioral and subtle motor changes, then to categorize them into five stages, and finally to perform the cerebral blood flow scan using Ceretec. The aim of this study was to correlate the abnormalities of the brain scan with the different stages of ADC. Five patients were analyzed, with dementias ranging from mild to severe according to Price's classification. After confirming the absence of CNS opportunistic infections and AIDS associated malignancies by CT of the brain, the patients underwent psychiatric evaluation and brain scans. The SPECT scans were very sensitive in showing uptake defects in the brain, even in the early stages of ADC. The blood flow defects were more pronounced in the later stages, while the CT scans remained negative except in patients with the most severe dementia."}
{"id": "1934777", "title": "[Chronic dementia in Parkinson disease treated by long-term administration of anticholinergic drug--evaluation of neuropsychological test, PET, and SPECT].", "content": "[Chronic dementia in Parkinson disease treated by long-term administration of anticholinergic drug--evaluation of neuropsychological test, PET, and SPECT]. It is known that the anticholinergic drug causes acute psychosis and memory disturbance, which may be due to cholinergic dysfunction. But it has not been well described that the anticholinergic drug causes chronic dementia after long administration. We describe six cases of chronic dementia, which is thought to be induced by anticholinergic drug. We conducted detailed neuropsychological and neuroradiological examination in these six cases. All of them were Parkinson's disease, and had used anticholinergic drug for more than six months without any side effect, and then their initial symptom of dementia appeared, followed by chronic dementia. All cases recovered reversibly from dementia within a few weeks after stoppage of taking anticholinergic drug. And any of our cases had no possibility in the cause of chronic dementia other than the side effect of anticholinergic drug. Detailed neuropsychological examinations (WAIS, WMSR, and so on) were conducted in all cases, SPECT was in two cases, and PET was in one case, before and after stoppage of the anticholinergic drug. And in all cases, brain MRI was conducted. The indices of attention, verbal memory, visual memory, and delayed recall were significantly elevated after stoppage of drug. And both verbal IQ and performance IQ were increased after stoppage of drug, too. SPECT and PET revealed significant improvement, which showed diffuse and generalized change, not localized change."}
{"id": "1934773", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow pattern in progressive supranuclear palsy].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow pattern in progressive supranuclear palsy]. It is known that progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) shows subcortical dementia. The diagnosis of PSP is sometimes difficult because this disorder mimics the clinical features of parkinsonian syndrome. Several PET studies demonstrated frontal hypo-metabolism in PSP patients. We studied the cerebral blood flow (CBF) pattern by single-photon-emission-computed tomography (SPECT) using 123I-isopropyl-iodoamphetamine (IMP) in 5 patients of PSP including one autopsy case. Five PSP patients were 3 men and 2 women, mean age of 67.6 years old. Control groups were 3 normal controls (Normal), 7 patients of Parkinson's disease (PD), 5 patients of olive-pontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA), and 4 patients of dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT). CBF was measured by 123I-IMP SPECT using 400 AC/T Starcam (GE). CBF was measured by semi-quantitative methods. Regions of Interest (ROI's) were located at cerebellar, basal ganglion, and lateral ventricle levels. Each count of ROI was divided by the count of occipital ROI. In all PSP patients, the ratio of relative blood flow to occipital lobe in the frontal and fronto-temporal regions were most markedly affected, showing average reduction rates of 66.6% and 65.5%. These rates showed statistically significant differences to other control degenerative neurological diseases. Our these results correspond to the former PET studies. Moreover, frontal hypoperfusion progressed with advancing clinical stage. The results indicate that CBF study with SPECT is useful to confirm the diagnosis of PSP. It is necessary to clarify the role of the damage in basal ganglia for frontal hypometabolic pattern."}
{"id": "1931259", "title": "[Functional relationships between the cerebrum and cerebellum or the cerebral cortex and deep gray matter in normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's type dementia].", "content": "[Functional relationships between the cerebrum and cerebellum or the cerebral cortex and deep gray matter in normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's type dementia]. Since the various parts of the central nervous system are functionally interconnected, functional relationships between one region and another would be expected to be present. We investigated whether functional relationships between the cerebrum and cerebellum or between the cerebral cortex and deep gray matter exist in normal subjects and patients with Alzheimer's type dementia (AD), using the indicator of asymmetry in cerebral blood flow. Eighteen normal subjects (average age: 72.6 +/- 11.4 years) and 21 patients with AD (average age: 75.5 +/- 8.1 years) were studied in the resting state using SPECT with 123I-IMP. The asymmetry index (AI) of blood flow for matched left-right regions of interest was calculated as follows: AI = (R-L)/(R + L)/200(%) (R: right side, L: left side). For both the normal and AD groups, we found a negative correlation between AI in the cerebrum and AI in the cerebellum. The AIs of widespread cortical subregions, except the occipital cortex, were significantly correlated with AI in the cerebellum in the AD group. On the other hand, the only significant correlation found in normal subjects was between the AIs of the frontal cortex and cerebellum. A positive correlation between the AIs in the cerebral cortex and deep gray matter was observed in both the normal and AD groups. Though only the upper frontal and parietal cortices showed significant correlations with the deep gray matter in normal subjects, more extensive cortical subregions showed significant correlations in AD patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1927637", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO in HIV-1 infection: a help in early diagnosis of AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO in HIV-1 infection: a help in early diagnosis of AIDS dementia complex."}
{"id": "1919732", "title": "Bilateral subdural hematomas diagnosed with technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT.", "content": "Bilateral subdural hematomas diagnosed with technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT. An elderly patient with a complex history of organic dementia but a normal neurologic examination had a 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene-amine-oxime (HMPAO) brain scan for a suspected cerebrovascular accident or space-occupying lesion. The study showed no perfusion abnormality in the brain parenchyma, but bilateral flattening and inversion of the normal hemispheric convexities, with separation from the skull was identified. Bilateral subdural hematomas (SDH) were suspected and the patient had a computed tomographic scan that confirmed the diagnosis."}
{"id": "1914338", "title": "[A case progressive dementia developed after repeated head trauma].", "content": "[A case progressive dementia developed after repeated head trauma]. A 46-year-old man who developed progressive dementia after repeated head trauma was reported. At the age of 30 and 36, he encountered traffic accidents and suffered from blows to his head. At 37 years old, he noticed impairment of memory and comprehension. At 41 years old, he was observed to become easily angered. These symptoms were slowly progressive, and at age 46 he was examined by us. He had no particular family history of dementia. Neurological examination revealed a disturbance of cognitive ability. The brain CT and MRI showed marked atrophy of the cerebral cortex, especially in the frontal and temporal lobes without any demonstrable lesions in the white matter. A single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using inhalation of 133Xenon disclosed hypoperfusion of the cerebral blood flow localized in the bilateral frontal and parietal lobes. He was supposed to suffer from juvenile Alzheimer's disease which might have developed after repeated head trauma. One similar case had been reported as a posttraumatic premature Alzheimer's disease. Finally, we discussed other causes of dementia including metabolic, infectious and vascular diseases. The present case also suggests that head trauma might be one of the provoking or promoting factors of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1897377", "title": "Physostigmine in Alzheimer's disease: effects on cognitive functioning, cerebral glucose metabolism analyzed by positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow analyzed by single photon emission tomography.", "content": "Physostigmine in Alzheimer's disease: effects on cognitive functioning, cerebral glucose metabolism analyzed by positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow analyzed by single photon emission tomography. The effect of acute, intravenous administration of physostigmine on measures of brain activity and cognitive functioning were investigated in 14 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism was assessed using (18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose and positron emission tomography, and cerebral blood flow was assessed using 123I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission tomography. Although physostigmine enhanced cerebral blood flow in most patients, only one patient showed significant clinical improvement. This patient, however, also showed a very pronounced improvement in cerebral glucose metabolism. It is concluded that these preliminary findings hold considerable promise for our appreciation of the pathophysiology of dementing illness as well as our understanding of centrally acting compounds of interest in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "1891084", "title": "Frontal lobe degeneration: clinical, neuropsychological, and SPECT characteristics.", "content": "Frontal lobe degeneration: clinical, neuropsychological, and SPECT characteristics. The clinical, neuropsychological, and cerebral blood flow characteristics of eight patients with frontal lobe degeneration (FLD) were studied. Social withdrawal and behavioral disinhibition were the earliest and most common clinical presentations, and psychiatric symptoms typically preceded the onset of dementia by several years. Neuropsychological testing showed selective impairment of frontal and memory tasks with relative sparing of attention, language, and visuospatial skills. Single-photon emission computerized tomography demonstrated frontal and temporal hypoperfusion with relative sparing of parietal and occipital blood flow. Previous studies suggest that the neuropathologic findings in patients with FLD are varied; some demonstrate frontal gliosis, neuronal loss, and Pick bodies while others show only gliosis and neuronal loss."}
{"id": "1883218", "title": "Functional brain imaging in AIDS-related dementia: a review.", "content": "Functional brain imaging in AIDS-related dementia: a review."}
{"id": "1870274", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease in the elderly].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease in the elderly]. The 159 patients with Parkinson's disease with onset after the age of 50 (mean: 62.3 years) were studied with reference to diagnosis and treatment. The results were as follows: 1. Other than the characteristic features, the symptoms at onset were depression (6% of the patients), lumbago (4%), hemiplegia-like (4%) and dizziness (3%), causing misdiagnoses in some of the patients. Among 159 patients studied, the severity most frequent was Yahr stage 3 (63%) at first examination, indicating the necessity of earlier diagnosis. 2. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the substantia nigra and striatum was investigated using a 1.5 Tesla field and T2-weighted images, which gave no specific results concerning diagnosis and severity. However, it was useful in differential diagnosis between this disease and parkinsonism caused by multiple system atrophy and cerebrovascular diseases. 3. With 123I-IMP SPECT, decrease in blood flow in the frontal and temporal lobes correlated with the severity (Yahr stage) of the disease. Regarding cognitive functions the scores of Hasegawa's Dementia Scale and Mini-Mental State showed a highly significant correlation with the amount of blood flow in frontal and parietal lobes, suggesting that dementia might be caused by dysfunction of these lobes. 4. In 98 patients treated with levodopa mixed with dopa-economizers for more than a year, the maximum improvement was small in severely disabled patients of Yahr stage 5 and 4 because none improved to stage 3A or below (3A is an arbitrary criterion meaning mild involvement in stage 3 with 3P meaning more severe cases).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1869966", "title": "Computer-assisted superimposition of magnetic resonance and high-resolution technetium-99m-HMPAO and thallium-201 SPECT images of the brain.", "content": "Computer-assisted superimposition of magnetic resonance and high-resolution technetium-99m-HMPAO and thallium-201 SPECT images of the brain. A method for registering three-dimensional CT, MR, and PET data sets that require no special patient immobilization or other precise positioning measures was adapted to high-resolution SPECT and MRI and was applied in 14 subjects (five normal volunteers, four patients with dementia (Alzheimer's disease), two patients with recurrent glioblastoma, and three patients with focal lesions (stroke, arachnoid cyst and head trauma]. T2-weighted axial magnetic resonance images and transaxial 99mTc-HMPAO and 201Tl images acquired with an annular gamma camera were merged using an objective registration (translation, rotation and rescaling) program. In the normal subjects and patients with dementia and focal lesions, focal areas of high uptake corresponded to gray matter structures. Focal lesions observed on MRI corresponded to perfusion defects on SPECT. In the patients who had undergone surgical resection of glioblastoma followed by interstitial brachytherapy, increased 201Tl corresponding to recurrent tumor could be localized from the superimposed images. The method was evaluated by measuring the residuals in all subjects and translational errors due to superimposition of deep structures in the 12 subjects with normal thalamic anatomy and 99mTc-HMPAO uptake. This method for superimposing magnetic resonance and high-resolution SPECT images of the brain is a useful technique for correlating regional function with brain anatomy."}
{"id": "1834385", "title": "[Two cases of adult Down's syndrome presenting parietal low uptake in 123I-IMP-SPECT].", "content": "[Two cases of adult Down's syndrome presenting parietal low uptake in 123I-IMP-SPECT]. We performed 123I-IMP-SPECT to patients with Down's syndrome who were supposed to have neuropathological findings of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. In case 1, a 52-year-old man with dementia, bilateral posterior parietal low uptake and right temporal low uptake were noted. Uptake was markedly lower in the right hemisphere. Case 2, a 38-year-old man not exhibiting clinical features of dementia, presented slightly decreased uptake in bilateral posterior parietal areas. We conclude that the patterns of abnormally decreased uptake in these cases of Down's syndrome are similar to those in dementia of Alzheimer's type, and that there is a possibility to detect the predemented stage of Down's syndrome by 123I-IMP-SPECT."}
{"id": "1831668", "title": "Integrity of the blood-CSF barrier in dementia of Alzheimer type: CSF/serum ratios of albumin and IgG.", "content": "Integrity of the blood-CSF barrier in dementia of Alzheimer type: CSF/serum ratios of albumin and IgG. Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 25 patients with dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) and 25 controls were assayed for concentrations of albumin and IgG. The severity of dementia was rated with the Mini Mental State Examination. The CSF/serum ratio for albumin and IgG as well as the IgG index were used to evaluate blood-CSF barrier function in the respective groups. The control group was matched for age, sex and the indirect alcohol parameters, mean corpuscular volume and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. There were no signs of dysfunction of the blood-CSF barrier for proteins or signs of local synthesis of IgG in the central nervous system (CNS) of the demented patients. The permeability of the blood-CSF barrier appeared to be unrelated to dementia severity. The data do not support the hypothesis that a pathological leakage through the blood-CSF barrier facilitates the entry of extraneuronal proteins to the CNS, which might contribute to the pathophysiological process in DAT."}
{"id": "1825359", "title": "The scintigraphic evaluation of Huntington's disease and other movement disorders using single photon emission computed tomography perfusion brain scans.", "content": "The scintigraphic evaluation of Huntington's disease and other movement disorders using single photon emission computed tomography perfusion brain scans. The increasing availability of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) perfusion brain scans has led to the investigation of a variety of neuropsychiatric conditions including the movement disorders such as Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. In general, observers have noted that Huntington patients have bilaterally decreased uptake of technetium 99m HM-PAO and iodine 123 IMP in the basal ganglia regions involving the heads of the caudate nucleic and adjacent structure, which reflects decreased neuronal function. These functional changes precede the morphological changes due to caudate nucleus atrophy that are observed on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Cortical changes occur in severely diseased Huntington's patients but are more nonspecific. Prediction of individuals at risk for Huntington's disease using SPECT scans should be done with caution and in association with other clinical data. In contrast, in Parkinson's disease mild diffusely decreased perfusion is commonly noted throughout the cerebral structures, except for the cerebellum. In Parkinson's disease, there is less agreement among observers as to whether the basal ganglia are abnormal. Some observers report that there are no specific basal ganglia perfusion defects in excess of those changes seen elsewhere in the brain. Others report diminished basal ganglia uptake associated with L-dopa therapy in some Parkinson's patients, and in patients with hemi-parkinsonism there have been perfusion deficits reported in the contralateral basal ganglia. In some Parkinson patients, bilateral Alzheimer's-like posterior temporoparietal cortical perfusion defects have been observed in association with progressive dementia. Basal ganglia and cortical perfusion changes also have been reported in a few patients with a variety of other less common movement disorders."}
{"id": "1820661", "title": "Neuroradiological findings of paretic neurosyphilis, a case report.", "content": "Neuroradiological findings of paretic neurosyphilis, a case report. Neuroradiological findings of a patient with paretic neurosyphilis are described. A 50-year-old male patient showed personality changes, severe dementia and some neurological deficits. Serological analysis of serum and cerebrospinal fluid demonstrated the presence of antibodies to Treponema pallidum. Computed tomography showed diffuse cerebral cortical atrophy and ventricular dilatation, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed some small abnormal signals in the white matter. Single photon emission tomography using [123I] N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (IMP-SPECT) indicated decreased activities, most markedly in the right frontal and bitemporal cortices. Although the neuroradiological findings were nonspecific, the MR imaging and IMP-SPECT findings were interesting because they have not been described previously to our knowledge."}
{"id": "1808497", "title": "[Comparison of SPECT and quantified EEG features in Alzheimer's type dementia].", "content": "[Comparison of SPECT and quantified EEG features in Alzheimer's type dementia]. Forty-one patients with probable dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) have been studied by computerized EEg (C-EEG) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) using 123-IMP. Four groups have been distinguished according to SPECT hypoperfusion topography: frontal, temporo-parietal, fronto-parietal and fronto-temporo-parietal. C-EEG parameters were much more disturbed in the 2 latter than in the 2 former groups. Thus a normal C-EEG could indicate a dominant frontal or temporo-parietal form of DAT. Therefore some bias due to duration or rate of disease progression cannot be excluded. So far the important finding is that EEG changes are diffuse and do not reflect the topography of SPECT hypoperfusion questioning the value of EEG topographical analysis in DTA."}
{"id": "1795437", "title": "[A clinical study in elderly patients with Parkinson's disease using MRI and SPECT--Parkinson's disease and the lacunar state].", "content": "[A clinical study in elderly patients with Parkinson's disease using MRI and SPECT--Parkinson's disease and the lacunar state]. Parkinson's disease (PD) is often associated with dementia in elderly patients, and sometimes PD coexists with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) or cerebrovascular disease (CVD) in the elderly. However, since there are few previous clinical studies on the coincidence of, or relationship between PD and CVD, the authors evaluated these aspects in 34 elderly patients with PD using MRI and SPECT. All the patients were over 70 years old. The diagnosis of PD was based on the presence of three symptoms (resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity and bradikinesia) which are characteristic of PD, and the effectiveness of L-DOPA therapy. We therefore believe that patients with vascular Parkinsonism were excluded from our study. In 34 cases, 24 (71%) had MRI evidence of CVD (mainly the lacunar state). In the 10 cases who had no CVD, 2 (20%) had severe dementia and the decrease of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the temporal and parietal lobes bilaterally correlated with the SPECT findings commonly found in SDAT. A comparison of the rCBF and the results of Hasegawa's dementia score (HDS) (verbal intelligence score) was made between the patients with PD associated with CVD and the patients with PD who had no CVD and no SPECT findings which correlated with SDAT. The rCBF in the frontal lobes and the results of the HDS of the former group were significantly lower than those of the latter. As mentioned above, elderly patients with PD often had CVD, leading to dementia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1789907", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and dementia in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and dementia in Parkinson's disease. Regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) was examined in 27 patients with Parkinson's disease using single-photon emission computed tomography and N-isopropyl-p-[123I]iodoamphetamine as a tracer. Their CBF pattern was compared with that of seven patients with Alzheimer's disease and nine age-matched neurologically normal controls. Tracer activity was determined in seven bilateral cerebellar, cortical, and subcortical regions and was expressed as the ratio of activity in each region to the mean tracer activity in the cerebellar region. Nineteen patients with nondemented Parkinson's disease showed significantly decreased tracer activity ratio in the frontal and temporal cortices, basal ganglia, and thalamus compared with that in controls. The eight demented Parkinson's disease patients showed significantly decreased tracer activity ratio in the temporal and parietal cortices compared with the patients without dementia, and demonstrated CBF pattern similar to that of patients with Alzheimer's disease. These findings suggest that in patients with Parkinson's disease, the mechanism of CBF reduction of the frontal cortical region differs from that in the temporoparietal cortical region and support the concept that Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease may overlap in some patients."}
{"id": "1786668", "title": "[A case of idiopathic, symmetrical non-arteriosclerotic, intracerebral calcification (Fahr's disease) associated with M-proteinemia, followed by multiple myeloma].", "content": "[A case of idiopathic, symmetrical non-arteriosclerotic, intracerebral calcification (Fahr's disease) associated with M-proteinemia, followed by multiple myeloma]. We described a 41-year-old woman with idiopathic, symmetrical, non-arteriosclerotic, intracerebral calcification (Fahr's disease), associated with multiple myeloma. CT scans revealed severe calcification in the basal ganglia, floors of cortices, subcortical white matter, brainstem and cerebellum without calcification in the spinal cord. Cerebral angiography showed no evidence of arteriosclerosis. The cerebral blood flow measured by SPECT, parathyroid function and calcium metabolism were within normal range. The initial symptom was dystonia and spasticity in the left leg, when she was 30 years old, followed by gait disturbance, speech impairment, micrographia and dementia. M-proteinemia was pointed out when she 32 years old. M-proteinemia, which was due to primary benign monoclonal immunoglobulinemia (PBMI), made progress slowly, followed by multiple myeloma when she was 40 years old. Periodical CT scans revealed that the intracerebral calcification had worsened gradually through 8 years. Neurological abnormality had also progressed slowly. In literature, there has not been any report about Fahr's disease associated with PBMI and multiple myeloma. Our present study is the first to radiologically prove that the intracerebral calcification in Fahr's disease progresses gradually through its course."}
{"id": "1781964", "title": "Functional brain imaging and Alzheimer-type dementia.", "content": "Functional brain imaging and Alzheimer-type dementia. Alzheimer disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder consisting of memory impairment and intellectual function that produces not only profound disabilities in the patient, but a significant cost to society as well. The biochemical basis for Alzheimer disease is not completely understood, but both positron-emission tomography and single-photon-emission computed tomography provide insights into the in vivo biochemistry associated with this disease. Both techniques show characteristic brain abnormalities, which consist of reductions in temporal-parietal metabolism that progress in severity and extent as the disease itself shows clinical progression. Such noninvasive biochemical assays may ultimately prove to be of assistance in clinical management, and are clearly helpful in understanding the pathophysiologic mechanisms associated with the production of this disease."}
{"id": "1776524", "title": "Evaluation of brain SPECT in the diagnosis and prognosis of the normal pressure hydrocephalus syndrome.", "content": "Evaluation of brain SPECT in the diagnosis and prognosis of the normal pressure hydrocephalus syndrome. From January 1989 to September 1990 fourteen patients with the Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (NPH) syndrome were diagnosed in our Service. All patients were studied by CT-Scan, Radionuclide Cisternography and brain Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT). In this series, the predictive value of the brain SPECT was assessed. A statistically significant relationship between SPECT patterns and clinical outcome was found. The patients who showed a Dementia Alzheimer Type (DAT) pattern on SPECT had worse results. The results are discussed and compared with those reported by other authors."}
{"id": "1764860", "title": "[A case of posttraumatic parkinsonism].", "content": "[A case of posttraumatic parkinsonism]. We report a case of a 52-year-old man with posttraumatic parkinsonism. He was admitted to our department because of right-sided hand tremor and gait disturbance. He had suffered from a severe head injury incurred in a traffic accident with brief unconsciousness 6 months before admission. Three weeks after his injury, tremor and rigidity in the right upper limb developed, and he walked dragging his right leg. Five months after his injury, he received 1-dopa therapy, exhibiting a moderate improvement in parkinsonian symptoms. On admission, he was demented to a mild degree with masked face and monotonous speech. He presented with resting-postural-kinetic tremor and muscle rigidity on the right side. Cranial CT and MRI showed no abnormality. Inter-peak latencies of waves III to V of BAEP were significantly longer in this patient than in normal subjects. This BAEP findings suggested an upper brainstem lesion. 123I-IMP SPECT disclosed decreased cerebral blood flow in the left thalamus, bilateral frontal and parietal cortices. We diagnosed this case as having posttraumatic parkinsonism. Parkinsonism in the present case may be due to the involvement of multiple neuronal circuits of the extrapyramidal system at the level of the midbrain to the thalamus."}
{"id": "1743499", "title": "The role of SPECT brain imaging in assessing psychopathology in the medically ill.", "content": "The role of SPECT brain imaging in assessing psychopathology in the medically ill. Cerebral single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), a method of functional brain imaging, measures cerebral blood flow and metabolism. This paper describes the imaging procedure and several cases where cerebral SPECT was of use in the differential diagnosis of medically ill patients who also presented with psychopathology. SPECT patterns in cerebrovascular disease, dementia, focal epilepsy, and AIDS are at present the best described and seem to be the most specific. Often changes in regional cerebral blood flow are seen before structural changes become apparent on CT or MRI. Cerebral SPECT can add valuable diagnostic information in assessing psychopathology in the medically ill and can often lead to changes in treatment."}
{"id": "1680671", "title": "Hippocampus pathology in dementia: post-mortem assessed cation shifts and amino acid transmitter contents and its possible neuroimaging in vivo.", "content": "Hippocampus pathology in dementia: post-mortem assessed cation shifts and amino acid transmitter contents and its possible neuroimaging in vivo."}
{"id": "1651190", "title": "SPECT in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct-dementia.", "content": "SPECT in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct-dementia. SPECT with Tc-99m HM-PAO as a radiopharmaceutical was performed in 17 patients meeting research criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD), in 10 patients with a clinical diagnosis of multi-infarct-dementia (MID) and in 12 healthy volunteers. Regional tracer uptake was measured in frontal, parietal, and temporoparietal regions. A statistically significant decrease of tracer uptake in the temporoparietal region was found in AD-patients compared with controls. AD-patients showed less activity in this region than MID-patients, but this difference did not reach statistical significance. In both AD- and MID-patients decrease of tracer uptake was not correlated with dementia severity. We conclude that SPECT brain imaging is not yet ready for routine use in the distinction between AD and MID."}
{"id": "2405332", "title": "[Regional cerebral blood flow studied by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)].", "content": "[Regional cerebral blood flow studied by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)]. Clinical experience based on regional cerebral blood flow investigations with 99mTc HMPAO SPECT in 164 patients is reported. The pharmacokinetics of the 99mTc HMPAO are summarised, and the important indications of the investigations are interpreted in case reports (stroke, surgical solution of intracavernous aneurysm, Alzheimer and multiinfarct types of dementias). The literature data suggest that the diagnostic possibilities with this method are good in other diseases too, this area is surveyed briefly."}
{"id": "2403612", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Applications and potential.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Applications and potential. Single-photon emission computed tomography has received increasing attention as radiopharmaceuticals that reflect perfusion, metabolism, and receptor and cellular function have become widely available. Perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography of the brain provides functional information useful for the diagnosis and management of stroke, dementia, and epilepsy. Single-photon emission computed tomography has been applied to myocardial, skeletal, hepatic, and tumor scintigraphy, resulting in increased diagnostic accuracy over planar imaging because background activity and overlapping tissues interfere far less with activity from the target structure when tomographic techniques are used. Single-photon emission computed tomography is substantially less expensive and far more accessible than positron emission tomography and will become an increasingly attractive alternative for transferring the positron emission tomography technology to routine clinical use. In addition, single-photon emission computed tomography has unique applications that are increasingly finding their way into the routine practice of clinical nuclear medicine."}
{"id": "2395011", "title": "Brain perfusion SPECT using an annular single crystal camera: initial clinical experience.", "content": "Brain perfusion SPECT using an annular single crystal camera: initial clinical experience. The annular single-crystal brain camera (ASPECT) is a digital SPECT system with a single-crystal sodium iodide thallium Nal(Tl) ring detector and collimator system designed to view the patient's head from three angles simultaneously. The ring is rotated concentrically to the detector for three-dimensional reconstruction over a 21.4 cm (diameter) by 10.7 cm (length) field of view. We evaluated the system clinically by imaging a Hoffman brain phantom and seven subjects, of whom two were normal controls, three had previous cerebral infarction and two had dementia. The ASPECT system produced tomographic images of high spatial resolution. In normal subjects, the separation of striata from thalami by the posterior limbs of the internal capsules was much clearer on ASPECT images than on rotating gamma camera images. The high spatial resolution obtained with the ASPECT system translates into superior anatomical representation of the brain compared to the standard rotating gamma camera."}
{"id": "2381074", "title": "[Measurements of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Measurements of cerebral blood flow and metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease]. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to measure cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2), and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In the patients, values for CBF, CMRO2, and CMRglc have been shown to drop by 30-50% in comparison to age-matched normal controls. In the early stage (stage I), reductions in CBF and CMRO2 are prominent in the temporal and the temporoparietal cortices. In stage II, reduction in the parietal cortex also become quite prominent, and in the late stage (stage III) reduction begins prominently in the frontal cortex as well. These PET findings in Alzheimer's disease differ from those in vascular dementia, Pick's disease, and Huntington's disease. In the interrelationship among CBF, CMRO2 and higher brain function, CBF and CMRO2 decrease especially in the left frontal, the left temporal and the left parietal cortices in patients with marked language disability. On the contrary, CBF and CMRO2 decrease in the right temporal and the right parietal cortices in patients with marked apraxia and visuospatial deficits. Cerebral blood flow and metabolism are closely related to the functioning of nerve cells. Therefore we can isolate the region responsible for higher brain dysfunction and similarly evaluate the effects of treatment using cerebral blood flow and metabolism measurements."}
{"id": "2346388", "title": "Alzheimer's disease. Age at onset and single-photon emission computed tomographic patterns of regional cerebral blood flow.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease. Age at onset and single-photon emission computed tomographic patterns of regional cerebral blood flow. We performed this study to determine whether early- and late-onset Alzheimer's disease differ physiologically. Ten patients with a presenile (before 65 years old) onset of the disease and 16 with senile onset of the disease were evaluated clinically and neuropsychologically and studied with single photon emission computed tomography using the blood flow tracer [123I]N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine. Although the presenile subjects had more severe neuropsychological abnormalities in all realms of cognitive function, including language, and showed greater reductions in regional blood flow than the older patients, they were also more severely demented, thus complicating interpretation of the results. Two indexes of cerebral perfusion, a ratio of regional flow compared with occipital flow and a left-right asymmetry index, demonstrated relative left frontal hypoperfusion in presenile- but not senile-onset patients and did not appear to be an artifact of the severity differences. Although no asymmetry of cognitive function was noted, the perfusion asymmetry provides biological evidence for an alteration in left-hemisphere function in patients with the early onset of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "2341906", "title": "The utility of cerebral blood flow imaging in patients with the unique syndrome of progressive dementia with motor neuron disease.", "content": "The utility of cerebral blood flow imaging in patients with the unique syndrome of progressive dementia with motor neuron disease. Two patients presenting with progressive dementia coupled with motor neuron disease underwent brain SPECT using N-isopropyl-p iodine-123-iodoamphetamine [( 123I]IMP). The characteristic clinical features of progressive dementia and motor neuron disease were noted. IMP SPECT also revealed reduced uptake in the bilateral frontal and temporal regions, with no reduction of uptake in the parietal, parietal-occipital regions. We conclude that IMP SPECT has potential for the evaluation of progressive dementia with motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "2340662", "title": "Coexistence of Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia diagnosed by functional brain imaging with SPECT.", "content": "Coexistence of Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia diagnosed by functional brain imaging with SPECT."}
{"id": "2327836", "title": "Iofetamine I 123 single photon emission computed tomography is accurate in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Iofetamine I 123 single photon emission computed tomography is accurate in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of iofetamine hydrochloride I 123 (IMP) with single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's disease, we studied 58 patients with AD and 15 age-matched healthy control subjects. We used a qualitative method to assess regional IMP uptake in the entire brain and to rate image data sets as normal or abnormal without knowledge of subjects'clinical classification. The sensitivity and specificity of IMP with single photon emission computed tomography in AD were 88% and 87%, respectively. In 15 patients with mild cognitive deficits (Blessed Dementia Scale score, less than or equal to 10), sensitivity was 80%. With the use of a semiquantitative measure of regional cortical IMP uptake, the parietal lobes were the most functionally impaired in AD and the most strongly associated with the patients' Blessed Dementia Scale scores. These results indicated that IMP with single photon emission computed tomography may be a useful adjunct in the clinical diagnosis of AD in early, mild disease."}
{"id": "2317335", "title": "Assessing utility of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan in Alzheimer disease: correlation with cognitive severity.", "content": "Assessing utility of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan in Alzheimer disease: correlation with cognitive severity. Diagnosis of probable Alzheimer disease (AD) is made by a combination of characteristic clinical findings, when normal laboratory studies reveal no structural or metabolic cause of the dementia. Definite diagnosis of AD, however, can only be made with brain tissue examination. PET scanning reveals parietotemporal decreases in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose metabolism that differentiate AD from normal elderly and from multi-infarct dementia. Preliminary studies suggest that similar defects in CBF are detectable in single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in AD. Utilizing the iodinated ligand [123I] HIPDM ([123I] hydroxyiodobenzylpropanediamine), we studied 19 patients with probable AD of varying severity, with emphasis on mild cases, to assess the utility of SPECT as a diagnostic test in AD. Parietotemporal perfusion on SPECT was decreased unilaterally or bilaterally in 16 of 19 AD patients, similar to the defects reported with PET. The degree and extent of decreased CBF on SPECT correlated with AD severity. Strong correlations were obtained between decreases in computer-generated ratios of parietal to cerebellar activity and the level of cognitive function. SPECT was read as normal (on the radiographic film) by the nuclear medicine physician in all cases with Mini-Mental State (MMS) score greater than 24, and showed bilateral parietal perfusion deficits in only 1 of 4 patients with MMS between 22 and 24. Ten of 12 patients with MMS less than or equal to 21 had bilateral parietal abnormalities; the other 2 had unilateral perfusion defects. All patients with MMS less than 15 were bilaterally abnormal. SPECT is less expensive and more widely available than PET, and may have an adjunctive role in diagnosis of AD and other dementias if utilized under the proper circumstances."}
{"id": "2303829", "title": "Measurements of regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive performance in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Measurements of regional cerebral blood flow and cognitive performance in Alzheimer's disease. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-HMPAO was used to image 26 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 10 healthy controls. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) data indicated a relative sparing of the occipital regions in DAT. Normalisation to occipital flow illustrated highly significant CBF deficits in a number of cortical regions, particularly in the left and right posterior--temporal cortex in DAT compared to controls. The cognitive performance of DAT patients was measured using a clinical cognitive assessment procedure (CAMCOG) and numerous correlations between these scores and rCBF were obtained. The implications and value of this investigative technique are discussed."}
{"id": "2303828", "title": "Frontal lobe dementia and motor neuron disease.", "content": "Frontal lobe dementia and motor neuron disease. Four patients are described, in whom a profound and rapidly progressive dementia occurred in association with clinical features of motor neuron disease. The pattern of dementia indicated impaired frontal lobe function, confirmed by reduced tracer uptake in the frontal lobes on single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Pathological examination of the brains of two patients revealed frontal-lobe atrophy, with mild gliosis and spongiform change. The spinal cord changes were consistent with motor neuron disease. The clinical picture and pathological findings resembled those of dementia of frontal-lobe type and were distinct from those of Alzheimer's disease. The findings have implications for the understanding of the spectrum of non-Alzheimer forms of primary degenerative dementia."}
{"id": "2294653", "title": "Cerebral muscarinic receptors in primary degenerative dementia as evaluated by SPECT with iodine-123-labeled QNB.", "content": "Cerebral muscarinic receptors in primary degenerative dementia as evaluated by SPECT with iodine-123-labeled QNB."}
{"id": "2291821", "title": "The use and applications of single-photon emission computerised tomography in dementia.", "content": "The use and applications of single-photon emission computerised tomography in dementia."}
{"id": "2290211", "title": "[Asymmetry of cerebral blood flow in patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type by SPECT using I-123 IMP].", "content": "[Asymmetry of cerebral blood flow in patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type by SPECT using I-123 IMP]. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was determined by single photon emission CT (SPECT) with N-isopropyl-p-[123I]iodoamphetamine in 22 patients with clinically diagnosed senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT) and in 18 age matched controls. We calculated asymmetry indices (AIs) of rCBF for matched right-left regions of interest. rCBF of parietal lobe in SDAT patients was significantly most laterally asymmetrical, but the least in occipital lobe. Lateral asymmetry of rCBF in SDAT patients correlated with asymmetry of language and visuospatial functions; decreased rCBF in the left parietal lobe was associated with language dysfunction, and that in the right parietal lobe, with visuospatial dysfunction. Furthermore cerebellar AIs correlated negatively with those of the cerebral hemisphere and lower frontal region in SDAT patients. The results demonstrate that rCBF measurement by 123I-IMP SPECT is useful to detect lateral asymmetry in reduction of rCBF in SDAT."}
{"id": "2284372", "title": "The Amstel project: design and first findings. The course of mild cognitive impairment of the aged; a longitudinal 4-year study.", "content": "The Amstel project: design and first findings. The course of mild cognitive impairment of the aged; a longitudinal 4-year study. The AMSTEL-project is a longitudinal investigation to study the course of cognitive impairment in people aged 65 and over during a 4-year period. The study intends to contribute to the distinction between normal aging and early dementia, and should ultimately result in a diagnostic instrument enabling general practitioners to distinguish early dementia, in particular Alzheimer's disease, from normal aging. Another goal of the project is to elucidate the contribution of advanced biomedical methods (SPECT, MRI) to the early diagnosis of the main types (SDAT, MID) of dementia. This paper describes the design of the study, especially the recruitment of the study population and the sampling procedures. The investigation started in March 1990, and the first findings are presented. The procedure to approach the population resulted in a refusal rate of 45% for the screening phase. The reasons for this high non-response rate are discussed."}
{"id": "2284082", "title": "The investigation of dementia with single photon emission tomography.", "content": "The investigation of dementia with single photon emission tomography."}
{"id": "2276232", "title": "Differential diagnosis of bilateral parietal abnormalities in I-123 IMP SPECT imaging.", "content": "Differential diagnosis of bilateral parietal abnormalities in I-123 IMP SPECT imaging. This report discusses the clinical significance of bilateral parietal abnormalities on I-123 IMP SPECT imaging in 158 patients with cerebral disorders. This pattern was seen in 15 out of 21 patients with Alzheimer's disease; it was also seen in 4 out of 5 patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia, in 3 out of 17 patients with vascular dementia, in 1 out of 36 patients with cerebral infarction without dementia, in 1 out of 2 patients with hypoglycemia, and in 1 out of 2 patients with CO intoxication. Detection of bilateral parietal abnormalities is a useful finding in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, but one should keep in mind that other cerebral disorders may also show a similar pattern with I-123 IMP SPECT imaging."}
{"id": "2272595", "title": "[Diagnostic differentiation of dementia diseases by modern imaging procedures].", "content": "[Diagnostic differentiation of dementia diseases by modern imaging procedures]. We present a review on recent neuroimaging techniques, like x-ray computed tomography (XCT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) in dementia and related diseases. Significant new findings have been obtained using techniques reflecting proton density, regional brain perfusion and brain metabolism. In dementia of the Alzheimer type, for example, temporoparietal and sometimes also frontal reductions in cerebral blood flow and metabolism are characteristic. The infarctions found in multi-infarct dementia are especially well visualized on T2-weighted MRI images. Pick's disease is characterized by brain atrophy and decrease of radiotracer activity in the frontal lobes. In huntington's chorea the metabolic rate on PET scan in the area of the caudate nuclei may be reduced even before signs and symptoms become apparent. Furthermore, neuroimaging provides us with fairly typical finding in Creutzfeld-Jakob's disease, alcoholic dementia, Wilson's disease, hydrocephalus, Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, Fahr's disease, and the olivopontocerebellar ataxias. Neuroimaging techniques, however, have always to be interpreted in conjunction with clinical findings, thus disclosing their full range of information."}
{"id": "2269322", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow study with 99mTc-hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow study with 99mTc-hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's and multi-infarct dementia. Thirty-four demented patients, 19 with Alzheimer's and 15 with multi-infarct dementia, were studied using single photon emission computed tomography, and 99mTc-hexamethyl-propylenemine oxime as a tracer of regional cerebral perfusion. Tracer activity ratios, determined in cortical and subcortical regions, were compared with those of 11 age-matched controls. In both groups of demented patients, most of the cortical regions showed significant declines in tracer uptake from control values, with the greatest reductions in the parietal cortex. Significantly lower parietal indexes were found in the Alzheimer's patient group as compared both to the control values and to the group of multi-infarct dementia patients. A positive correlation was found between the magnitude of the parietal deficits and the severity of dementia."}
{"id": "2266407", "title": "Interactive three-dimensional region of interest analysis of HMPAO SPECT brain studies.", "content": "Interactive three-dimensional region of interest analysis of HMPAO SPECT brain studies. An interactive computer program has been developed to align a three-dimensional region of interest (ROI) model to technetium-99m-hexamethylpropylenamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies of the brain. The ROI model subdivides the human brain into fourteen discrete regions. A study was performed to determine normal ranges for HMPAO uptake in the ROIs defined by the model, and to assess the relative interobserver variability using the fitting program. HMPAO SPECT studies of twelve normal volunteers were independently analyzed by four observers. Small but significant differences between operators occurred primarily because of difficulty in defining the angle of the orbitomeatal plane on sagittal SPECT images. Despite this difficulty, the program and model have proven useful in defining ranges for normal cerebral perfusion in a healthy adult population. A study of a small group of patients with Alzheimer's dementia suggests that this procedure may be of use in the diagnosis of this disease."}
{"id": "2259243", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPET) of the brain.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPET) of the brain. The X-Ray CT scanner and MRI imaging of the brain have changed the study of this organ, in health and in disease. To add to the detailed demonstration of anatomy, functional imaging of the human brain is now carried out by either positron emission computed tomography (PET) or by single photon emission computed tomography (SPET). PET allows for the investigation of brain blood flow, metabolism and many neuroreceptors and is well placed to study the interaction between a drug and the brain. Its clinical (patient-orientated) problem solving potential remains limited--it is too costly a methodology. SPET of the human brain is the affordable, patient-dedicated, alternative. SPET is available in hundreds of departments throughout the U.K. and the E.E.C. Significant progress has been achieved with 99mTc and or 123I-labelled radiopharmaceuticals. Flow studies can be obtained with almost as much detail as most PET flow studies, and progress is at hand with the mapping of neuroreceptor ligands. A metabolic marker for SPET studies is still missing. However flow and metabolism follow a parallel course in most clinically relevant entities (for instance in epilepsy and dementia) -- hence SPET flow maps appear as an attractive alternative to PET. SPET studies of transit (flow/volume) offer an alternative to PET studies of oxygen extraction, since these parameters appear to correlate with each other."}
{"id": "2252452", "title": "Reduced cerebral blood flow in early stages of human immunodeficiency virus infection.", "content": "Reduced cerebral blood flow in early stages of human immunodeficiency virus infection. In order to determine if brain perfusion abnormalities, which are known in patients with acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome dementia, occur in early stages of human immunodeficiency virus infection, technetium 99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime-single-photon emission computed tomography studies were performed in 20 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus who belonged to Walter Reed stages I through IV. None of these patients demonstrated signs of dementia or severe neurological dysfunction. Pathological patterns of hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime uptake were seen in 14 patients, seven of whom had normal results during neurological examination. Only four patients had signs of cerebral atrophy on cranial computed tomographic scan. These data suggest that subtle changes in cerebral perfusion seem to arise early in the course of human immunodeficiency virus infection and may indicate human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy before neurological symptoms or noticeable structural damage occurs."}
{"id": "2245303", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in progressive aphasia without dementia. Case report, using 133xenon inhalation, technetium 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission computerized tomography.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in progressive aphasia without dementia. Case report, using 133xenon inhalation, technetium 99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime and single photon emission computerized tomography. We report a case of progressive aphasia without clinical signs of intellectual or behavioral impairment, satisfying Mesulam's clinical criteria of primary progressive aphasia, as 4 yrs of extensive psychometric testing and radiological imaging, comprising CT and MRI, failed to detect evidence of relevant involvement outside the left perisylvian regions. Cranial CT was normal but MRI showed multiple bilateral lesions in the deep white matter. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) studies by single photon emission computerized tomography, however, showed an initial frontotemporal focus of hypoperfusion that progressively extended to include most of the ipsilateral hemisphere and the contralateral frontal lobe. This suggests that CBF imaging may yet be the most sensitive technique in revealing subclinical injury in the degenerative brain diseases of focal onset."}
{"id": "2237453", "title": "Brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome dementia complex.", "content": "Brain imaging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome dementia complex. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections are accompanied by many different types of neurological complications. Opportunistic infections and neoplasms, particularly lymphoma, are often an underlying cause for these complications in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Frequently, these can be detected by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination, double-dose contrast transmission computed tomography (CT), and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). It has become apparent that the HIV itself is responsible for a significant percentage of neurological disease in the HIV-seropositive individual. The onset may be subtle and may occur before the onset of frank immunosuppression. Diagnosis of HIV encephalitis or AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is complicated by the frequent coexistence of opportunistic infections. Structural neuroimaging (CT or MRI) shows atrophy and in some case white matter abnormalities, but imaging-pathological correlation suggests that these modalities are relatively insensitive to the presence of HIV brain infection. Functional neuroimaging, both 18fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) for evaluation of glucose metabolism and 123I iodoamphetamine or 99mTc-HMPAO single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for evaluation of cerebral perfusion, can demonstrate abnormalities in the subcortical gray matter structures and the cerebral cortex in patients with ADC. These abnormalities may be observed early in the course of ADC even when MRI is negative and the patient is relatively asymptomatic. Also, PET and SPECT may be useful to follow progression of the dementia or response to therapy."}
{"id": "2237452", "title": "Single photon tomography in Alzheimer's disease and the dementias.", "content": "Single photon tomography in Alzheimer's disease and the dementias. Measurements of brain blood flow has evolved over the past 50 years, and during the latter half of that time radionuclide techniques have been used to study this important function. Using Xenon 133 and scintillation multiprobe systems, several teams of investigators measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), and noted that under many circumstances it could be equated with local brain physiological activity. The dementias were investigated using the scintillation multiprobe method, and posterior flow deficits were described in patients who were thought to have Alzheimer's disease. The multiprobe technique gave way first to planar, and then tomographic imaging, with initial favorable results achieved by positron emission tomography (PET). Soon investigators learned to measure rCBF with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using high-sensitivity systems and 133Xe as a tracer, or high-resolution systems with 123I-iodoamphetamine (IMP), and later, 99mTc-HMPAO. Three-dimensional tomographic imaging shows to advantage the flow patterns that characterize Alzheimer's disease, with rCBF reductions in temporal, parietal, and sometimes frontal areas, as opposed to randomly distributed deficits in multiinfarct dementia, reduced frontal flow in entities such as Pick's disease, and others. Herein we will review our own experience with high-sensitivity rCBF SPECT in 119 patients with dementia, and with high-resolution SPECT, using a new, three-camera scanner and 99mTc-HMPAO in an additional 39 patients. SPECT rCBF study of patients with dementia and Alzheimer's disease, will aid in separating patients with untreatable Alzheimer's from those patients who may have treatable causes of dementia, and will be useful in evaluating experimental drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "2234697", "title": "Cortical cerebral blood flow in HIV-1-related dementia complex.", "content": "Cortical cerebral blood flow in HIV-1-related dementia complex. Dementia complex is a syndrome that affects a high percentage of AIDS patients. Neuroradiological findings may be non-specific and the diagnosis can be difficult in its earlier stages. Preliminary radionuclide studies have recently reported derangements of regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) which may be present before overt anatomical injury. This study reports on cortical and cerebellar CBF changes in 26 patients studied with 99Tcm-HM-PAO and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Extensive cortical CBF derangements were observed in all patients and an evident cerebellar hypoperfusion was also present in three. The prevalence of hypoperfusion was highest in the frontal and parietal lobes. The extension of the hypoperfusion showed a highly significant correlation with the severity of the dementia complex (P less than 0.01 by chi 2 test). The SPECT also showed hypoperfused areas in three patients with normal CT scans and in two patients with normal MRI scans. These results confirm previous preliminary reports on the high prevalence of cortical hypoperfusion in dementia complex and suggest the use of this radionuclide technique to assist in the early diagnosis and follow-up of AIDS patients, especially when CT and MRI are still normal."}
{"id": "2213201", "title": "HMPAO-SPECT imaging resembling Alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS).", "content": "HMPAO-SPECT imaging resembling Alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions (resembling Alzheimer type dementia) and in the right parietal lobe."}
{"id": "2179737", "title": "[Vascular dementia].", "content": "[Vascular dementia]."}
{"id": "2144981", "title": "[Neuroimaging and functional assessment in dementia].", "content": "[Neuroimaging and functional assessment in dementia]."}
{"id": "2120397", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow imaging: a quantitative comparison of technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT with C15O2 PET.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow imaging: a quantitative comparison of technetium-99m-HMPAO SPECT with C15O2 PET. The aim of this study was to compare technetium-99m-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) imaging using positron emission tomography (PET). As investigation of dementia is likely to be one of the main uses of routine rCBF imaging, 18 demented patients were imaged with both techniques. The PET data were compared quantitatively with three versions of the SPECT data. These were, first, data normalized to the SPECT cerebellar uptake, second, data linearly corrected using the PET cerebellar value and, finally, data Lassen corrected for washout from the high flow areas. Both the linearly-corrected (r = 0.81) and the Lassen-corrected (r = 0.79) HMPAO SPECT data showed good correlation with the PET rCBF data. The relationship between the normalized HMPAO SPECT data and the PET data was nonlinear. It is not yet possible to obtain rCBF values in absolute units from HMPAO SPECT without knowledge of the true rCBF in one reference region for each patient."}
{"id": "2099873", "title": "[Neurological diseases in the aged].", "content": "[Neurological diseases in the aged]. In this paper, I described clinical and basic problems on neurology of the aged patients. These studies have been done in various institutions with many co-workers. 1) A PET study revealed some age differences on CBF, CMRO2, or CMRgl. But these results are not so rigid in which much of individual variations should be considered in interpretation. Calendar age is not always compatible to biological age. 2) Saccular aneurysms in the brain artery were found in 7.3% of 1200 routine autopsy series of the aged subjects. Aneurysms with external diameter exceeding 6 mm had been fatally ruptured in 14 (78%) of 18 subjects. 3) Variations of the pyramidal crossing are found responsible for bizarre clinical manifestations. Non-crossing component was more prominent in the right pyramidal tract; consequently, right pyramidal tracts including ventral and lateral one seemed to have more extensive representation in the spinal cord level. 4) I123-IMP SPECT study showed a reduced uptake in the area 4 or area 4-6 of the ALS patients. 5) I introduced a new simplified Wartenberg's maneuver, which is useful for detection of subtle pyramidal dysfunctions. 6) Cases with central pontine myelinolysis and those of paraneoplastic syndrome were presented with an emphasis on their patho-chemical mechanisms. 7) Lewis-Sumner syndrome showing multifocal persistent conduction block is not rare in the aged, in which we have already had some useful therapeutic methods. 8) Dementia complicated with neurodegenerative disease was discussed on its clinical and chemical features of mental disturbances. In ALS-dementia, CSF-homovanilic acid reduced significantly than in the control and L-dopa was effective in some patients. 9) Vascular and Alzheimer-type dementias were presented and discussed on their pathogenetic mechanism according to our recent studies with review of literature."}
{"id": "2084833", "title": "[The contribution of single-photon emission-computed tomography in cerebral function diagnosis].", "content": "[The contribution of single-photon emission-computed tomography in cerebral function diagnosis]. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) makes it possible to visualize physiological and chemical processes in the cerebrum. In this technique, single photon emitting nuclides such as 99m technetium and 123 iodine, which are tagged to other compounds, or 133xenon, are used for the study of several clinical conditions. After injection of the radiopharmaceutic agent the radioactivity is measured by a rotating gamma-camera from numerous directions. Based on the measured values, its distribution within the brain can be computed and transformed in tomographic slices. We present our experience with the method in clinical practice using preferentially N-isopropyl-(123I)-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) and 99mTc hydroxymethyl-propylene-amine-oxime (99mTc-HMPAO). These substances are distributed in accordance with regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Hitherto, the application of the method has concentrated on the study of cerebrovascular disease and epilepsy. SPECT has contributed to a better understanding of the pathophysiological processes and their dynamics after ischemic infarction. The method also provides essential insights in epileptics. In partial epilepsy, a focus of reduced or enhanced tracer activity can be ascertained, dependent on the timing of the examination, in the interictal and ictal stage respectively. Even in the early course of senile dementia of Alzheimer type, zones of diminished neuronal activity in temporo-parietal and frontal cortex are demarcated. Preliminary results in psychiatric diseases and parkinsonism need further confirmation. In this connection future interest will focus especially upon the use of receptor ligands."}
{"id": "2083546", "title": "Semi-automatic quantification of regional cerebral perfusion in primary degenerative dementia using 99m technetium-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime and single photon emission tomography.", "content": "Semi-automatic quantification of regional cerebral perfusion in primary degenerative dementia using 99m technetium-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime and single photon emission tomography. A new semi-automatic method for quantifying regional cerebral uptake of 99m technetium-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) was used to assess single photon emission tomograms from 5 normal subjects, 14 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 14 patients with dementia of frontal lobe type and 4 patients with dementia with motor neurone disease. Uptake in both posterior cortical regions, although not in other regions, was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) in Alzheimer's disease than in normal controls. Conversely in both dementia of frontal lobe type and dementia with motor neurone disease, uptake was significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) compared with controls in all anterior cortical regions but not in posterior regions. Numerical findings in each disease mirrored the pattern of reduced tracer uptake previously reported by visual assessment. Nine patients were re-examined after an interval of at least 1 year. Comparison of follow-up scans with original images showed significant decreases in mid-anterior, left anterior and left posterior cortical uptake (P less than 0.01) in patients with Alzheimer's disease and in left middle, left posterior and right posterior cortical uptake (P less than 0.01) in patients with dementia of frontal lobe type. The method of quantification may be a useful adjunct to the visual assessment of single photon emission tomograms."}
{"id": "2083138", "title": "Comparison of I-123 IMP and Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT studies with PET in dementia.", "content": "Comparison of I-123 IMP and Tc-99m HMPAO SPECT studies with PET in dementia. We compared I-123 IMP and 99m-Tc HMPAO SPECT studies with 0-15 H2O and F-18 FDG PET studies, and evaluated the clinical significance of SPECT studies in dementia. Seventeen patients including 9 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 3 patients with Pick's disease and 5 patients with multi-infarct dementia were studied. IMP and HMPAO SPECT studies could not detect mildly affected areas when compared with FDG PET. However, they revealed decreased perfusion in the bilateral parietal regions in Alzheimer's disease and in the bilateral frontal regions in Pick's disease, while MRI and/or CT showed mild to moderate cerebral atrophy. IMP and HMPAO SPECT studies can be easily performed in clinical practice, and these findings were useful in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Our preliminary results suggested that SPECT studies with I-123 IMP and Tc-99m HMPAO, despite their limitations, are useful in the differential diagnosis of dementia."}
{"id": "2081396", "title": "Lateral asymmetries in primary degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type. A correlative study of cognitive, haemodynamic and EEG data, in relation with severity, age of onset and sex.", "content": "Lateral asymmetries in primary degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type. A correlative study of cognitive, haemodynamic and EEG data, in relation with severity, age of onset and sex. Cognitive, haemodynamic and EEG lateral asymmetries have been quantified in 20 patients with Primary Degenerative Dementia (PDD) and in 20 age-matched normal volunteers. Normalized asymmetry scores were calculated from the data obtained with a test battery, with SPECT and with quantitative EEG. Significant correlations were found between cognitive, haemodynamic and EEG scores in patients but not in controls. The functional asymmetries correlated to the Mini Mental State (MMS) score, the lowest MMS values being observed in patients with right hemisphere predominant impairment. Besides, in these patients, a significant correlation was observed between age at onset and MMS score so that, in this subgroup only, the earlier the onset the more severe the disease. Finally, the prevalence of pronounced functional asymmetry seemed to be higher in our male patients. Our study shows that lateral asymmetries are frequent in patients with PDD and that preferential lateralization of the abnormalities should be given further attention, especially with regards to age, sex and overall severity."}
{"id": "2075086", "title": "Functional and morphological findings in early and advanced stages of HIV infection: a comparison of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT with CT and MRI studies.", "content": "Functional and morphological findings in early and advanced stages of HIV infection: a comparison of 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT with CT and MRI studies. In forty patients at early and advanced stages of HIV infection (Walter Reed stages I-IV) regional cerebral blood flow was determined by 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT, comparing the results with CT and MRI findings. All patients with HIV encephalopathy (AIDS dementia complex) had pathologic SPECT results (multilocular, patchy uptake defects), but also in earlier and even earliest stages of HIV infection positive SPECT findings were observed. Compared to functional SPECT imaging, morphologically orientated methods (CT, MRI) were insensitive in detecting HIV-induced foci: more than 50% of the patients with pathologic SPECT findings had negative CT or MRI scans. Most patients in advanced Walter Reed stages had neurological abnormalities accompanied by positive SPECT. Subtle alterations of HMPAO uptake were observed even in a few cases of early HIV infection without neurological CNS symptoms. The data presented suggest that HMPAO SPECT is highly sensitive in the detection of altered brain perfusion not only in advanced but also early stages of HIV infection. Changes in regional cerebral blood flow are present before noticeable structural defects may be observed. Thus, it is suggested to use HMPAO SPECT in the evaluation and monitoring of patients with, and particularly at risk for, HIV encephalopathy."}
{"id": "2812339", "title": "Memory and regional cerebral blood flow in mildly symptomatic Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Memory and regional cerebral blood flow in mildly symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. We performed SPECT perfusion imaging and memory testing with mildly and moderately demented Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and with healthy controls. All patients had memory abnormalities, but 5 of the 21 patients had neither temporal nor parietal perfusion abnormalities, indicating that temporoparietal blood flow may be normal at a point when memory is pathologic and the clinical diagnosis of AD is possible."}
{"id": "2810914", "title": "[N-isopropyl I-123 p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) brain SPECT in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[N-isopropyl I-123 p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) brain SPECT in Alzheimer's disease]. Eighteen patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 5 patients with Pick disease (PD), 6 patients with other types of degenerative dementia (O) and 12 age-matched normal control subjects (N) were studied using N-isopropyl p-[I-123]iodoamphetamine (I-123 IMP) with SPECT. Regional to cerebellar activity (R/CE) ratio and frontal to parietal (F/P) activity ratio were evaluated in each case. I-123 IMP-SPECT revealed focal abnormality in all cases in AD, PD, O group, while XCT and/or MRI were normal or showed cerebral atrophy without focal abnormal density or intensity. In AD group, R/CE ratio in all the regions except for bilateral Rolandic area and left primary visual cortex were significantly lower (p less than 0.05 or p less than 0.01) than that in N group, and F/P ratio were significantly higher (p less than 0.01) than that in P and O group. In conclusion, I-123 IMP-SPECT is useful to detect focal perfusion abnormality in dementia and may be of value in differentiating Alzheimer's disease from dementia of non-Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "2799210", "title": "[Alzheimer's disease: study by single photon emission tomography (Hm PAO Tc99m)].", "content": "[Alzheimer's disease: study by single photon emission tomography (Hm PAO Tc99m)]. Single photon emission tomography with Hm PAO Tc99m was used in 27 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, 9 patients with multi-infarct, dementia, and 11 healthy volunteers. The data were quantified in 4 regions of interest (using the basal ganglia as an internal standard): left and right prefrontal areas (Fg and Fd), and left and right parietal areas (Pg and Pd). Pg and Pd indices were lower in patients with Alzheimer's disease than in patients with multi-infarct dementia, and healthy volunteers (p less than 0.05). The ratio (Fd + Pd)/(Fg + Pg) was lower in patients with dressing apraxia (p less than 0.02), anosognosia (p less than 0.001), spatial agnosia (p less than 0.01), ideomotor apraxia (p less than 0.02), ideatory apraxia (p less than 0.01), and constructive apraxia (p less than 0.01). No correlation could be established between this ratio and the severity of aphasia, or between the indices and mini mental state scores. With Pg and Pd indices lower than 0.90, sensitivity for Alzheimer's disease was 70 p. 100 and specificity, 75 p. 100."}
{"id": "2792144", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography studies with 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime in dementia: effects of acute administration of L-acetylcarnitine.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography studies with 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime in dementia: effects of acute administration of L-acetylcarnitine. The acute effects of intravenously administered L-acetylcarnitine (LAC) were evaluated with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime in 30 demented patients (21 with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's dementia and 9 with mixed-type dementia). Two SPECT scans were performed: in basal conditions, and 30 min after the administration of 500, 1,000, 1,500, or 2,000 mg LAC intravenously. Tracer activity ratios were determined in 10 pairs of cerebellar, cortical and subcortical regions. After administration of the lowest dose of LAC, no changes from the basal values were observed in any of the regions examined. The higher doses of the drug significantly elevated the tracer activity in cortical regions, particularly in the parietal lobe, which showed an impaired regional cerebral blood flow in the basal study. These effects of LAC and their relation with the cholinomimetic properties of the drug are discussed."}
{"id": "2789844", "title": "Clinical-physiologic correlates of Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia.", "content": "Clinical-physiologic correlates of Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe dementia. Thirty patients with degenerative dementia underwent clinical evaluation, neuropsychological testing, and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the blood flow tracer [123I]-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine. Five of these patients were clinically and psychologically different from the others, demonstrating predominant behavioral disturbances with relative preservation of memory function. These five patients, who were felt to have a frontal lobe dementia (FLD), showed SPECT perfusion patterns which differed from the remaining 25 patients, who were diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease (AD), and from 16 healthy control subjects. The FLD patients showed diminished perfusion in orbitofrontal, dorsolateral frontal, and temporal cortex relative to controls, while the AD patients showed lower perfusion in temporal and parietal cortex than controls. The FLD patients also showed hypoperfusion in both frontal cortical regions relative to AD patients. The pattern of performance on neuropsychological testing paralleled these differences in regional perfusion. These results suggest that clinical evaluation and physiological imaging may enable the differentiation of groups of degenerative dementia patients during life."}
{"id": "2787220", "title": "[Multi-infarct dementia clinically simulating dementia of Alzheimer type. A comparison with angular gyrus syndrome].", "content": "[Multi-infarct dementia clinically simulating dementia of Alzheimer type. A comparison with angular gyrus syndrome]. A 74-year-old right-handed man with multiple cerebral infarction who presented with dementia simulating dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) is reported. He had been well until April 20, 1987 when he developed transient right hand palsy lasting overnight. Eleven days later, he became confused, disorientated, and amnestic. He was admitted to this hospital on June 8. Physical examination revealed hypertension (170/90mmHg). On neurological examination, his consciousness was clear but he was demented. He showed disorientation, amnesia, and urinary incontinence. His most prominent symptom was disturbance of speech, including fluent aphasia and alexia with agraphia. Additionally, he showed ideomotor apraxia, construction apraxia, right-left agnosia, finger agnosia, and acalculia. On July 9, he had a transient attack of right hemiplegia with confusion. The brain CT scan performed on admission was unremarkable except for cavum septi pellucidum and a small low density area in the right basal ganglia. However, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) by 123I-labeled N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine disclosed hypoperfusion of the cerebral blood flow in the border zones of the temporoparietal and frontal lobes on the left. A follow-up brain CT scan taken one month later demonstrated low density in the new areas corresponding to hypoperfusion shown by SPECT. Although the clinical features of the present case resembled those of DAT, dementia in this case was regarded as the result of multiple cerebral infarction since it occurred acutely with mild motor deficits, and brain CT scans and SPECT showed lesions indicating focal cerebral ischemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2787034", "title": "Alzheimer disease: quantitative analysis of I-123-iodoamphetamine SPECT brain imaging.", "content": "Alzheimer disease: quantitative analysis of I-123-iodoamphetamine SPECT brain imaging. To enable a more quantitative diagnosis of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT), the authors developed and tested a semiautomated method to define regions of interest (ROIs) to be used in quantitating results from single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of regional cerebral blood flow performed with N-isopropyl iodine-123-iodoamphetamine. SPECT/IMP imaging was performed in ten patients with probable SDAT and seven healthy subjects. Multiple ROIs were manually and semiautomatically generated, and uptake was quantitated for each ROI. Mean cortical activity was estimated as the average of the mean activity in 24 semiautomatically generated ROIs; mean cerebellar activity was determined from the mean activity in separate ROIs. A ratio of parietal to cerebellar activity less than 0.60 and a ratio of parietal to mean cortical activity less than 0.90 allowed correct categorization of nine of ten and eight of ten patients, respectively, with SDAT and all control subjects. The degree of diminished mental status observed in patients with SDAT correlated with both global and regional changes in IMP uptake."}
{"id": "2785588", "title": "Dynamic xenon-133 SPECT in dementia.", "content": "Dynamic xenon-133 SPECT in dementia."}
{"id": "2783742", "title": "Dementias appear to have individual profiles in single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Dementias appear to have individual profiles in single photon emission computed tomography."}
{"id": "2701778", "title": "Positron emission tomography in dementia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in dementia."}
{"id": "2689037", "title": "Brain SPECT imaging with Tc-99m HM-PAO in Creutzfeld-Jakob disease.", "content": "Brain SPECT imaging with Tc-99m HM-PAO in Creutzfeld-Jakob disease. A Tc-99m HM-PAO brain SPECT study of a patient with biopsy-proven Creutzfeld-Jakob disease demonstrated perfusion defects in the left frontal and right temporoparietal areas. A brain CT was normal. The clinical potential of this imaging modality in the evaluation of dementia is discussed."}
{"id": "2662071", "title": "An assessment of the role of 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine with single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of stroke and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "An assessment of the role of 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine with single-photon emission computed tomography in the diagnosis of stroke and Alzheimer's disease. The role of 123I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP), a new agent used in brain imaging with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), has been assessed in the early diagnosis of acute infarctive stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The diagnosis of these conditions in their early stages has remained problematic, principally due to limitations of existing technologies. To more formally assess this new technology, we estimated the sensitivity and specificity of 123I-IMP SPECT scanning in the diagnosis of stroke and AD. We based our assessment on a review of all published studies that reported on 123I-IMP SPECT scans and which included three or more patients. The results from three major studies indicate that 123I-IMP SPECT scanning has a higher sensitivity (92% to 100%) than computerized tomography (55% to 86%) in the early diagnosis of acute cerebral infarction. Preliminary findings from studies using 123I-IMP SPECT in the diagnosis of early AD are promising and show a sensitivity of at least 69%. Furthermore, 123I-IMP SPECT scanning clearly discriminates patients with advanced AD from normals: sensitivity has ranged from 50% to 100%, while specificity has ranged from 97% to 100%. Studies also suggest that it can discriminate AD patients from those with multi-infarct dementia. Our review indicates that 123I-IMP SPECT may have an important future role in the early diagnosis and management of patients with acute infarctive stroke and AD."}
{"id": "2661883", "title": "[Clinical cerebral perfusion scintigraphy with 123I-IMP].", "content": "[Clinical cerebral perfusion scintigraphy with 123I-IMP]. At the first place, some experimental knowledges on the biodistribution of IMP were described for the understand of this agent. And on the basis of our clinical experience, the usefulness of cerebral perfusion imaging using SPECT and IMP was reviewed. The patients with possible ischemic cerebral diseases such as infarction, TIA and RIND are main candidates for this examination. Clinical significance of the so-called \"redistribution\" of IMP was discussed in detail. Dementia and epilepsy are considered to be the other indication. With improvement of the method, cerebral perfusion imaging may be accepted as essential test in the hospital dealing with the patient with neuropsychiatric deficits."}
{"id": "2615027", "title": "[Clinical evaluation of Parkinson's disease using 123I-IMP SPECT].", "content": "[Clinical evaluation of Parkinson's disease using 123I-IMP SPECT]. N-isopropyl-p[123I]iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) SPECT and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) studies were performed in 20 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 8 normal subjects. RCBF was measured by the arterial blood sampling method which used the microsphere model. We analyzed seven factors which might be related to the rCBF in PD, i.e., age, stage, duration of the disease, cerebral atrophy, severity of dementia, laterality of symptoms and motor disability score (MDS; the degree of akinesia, rigidity, tremor, gait disturbance, freezing and pulsion sign). Compared with normal subjects, global CBF (supratentorial mean rCBF) was reduced 21.8% in PD. In particular, rCBF in the basal ganglia and that of frontal cortex were reduced 25.3%, 24.8%, respectively. Distribution patterns of rCBF in PD were almost as same as those in normals except for cerebellum. The reduction of both rCBFs in the basal ganglia and parietal cortex significantly correlated with MDS (p less than 0.05, respectively). Especially, akinesia was closely correlated to the reduction of rCBF in the parietal cortex (p less than 0.02). Moreover, we observed a significant relationship between cerebral atrophy and reduction of rCBF in each region except for cerebellum. However, there was no significant correlation between the severity of dementia and reduction of rCBF, even in the frontal cortex or parietal cortex. These data show that the severity of dementia in PD may be connected with other factors except for rCBF. 123I-IMP SPECT study is a useful method for clinical evaluation of PD."}
{"id": "2608817", "title": "Electrical brain activity and cerebral blood flow in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Electrical brain activity and cerebral blood flow in dementia of the Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "2608816", "title": "Neuroimaging, cognitive, and pathological changes in dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT).", "content": "Neuroimaging, cognitive, and pathological changes in dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT)."}
{"id": "2608815", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and X-ray CT in patients with dementia.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and X-ray CT in patients with dementia."}
{"id": "2608792", "title": "Stage-dependent reductions of regional cerebral blood flow measured by HMPAO-SPECT in dementia of Alzheimer type.", "content": "Stage-dependent reductions of regional cerebral blood flow measured by HMPAO-SPECT in dementia of Alzheimer type."}
{"id": "2608750", "title": "[123I-IMP-SPECT finding of a case of presenile dementia with motor neuron disease--comparison between Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease and presenile dementia with motor neuron disease].", "content": "[123I-IMP-SPECT finding of a case of presenile dementia with motor neuron disease--comparison between Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease and presenile dementia with motor neuron disease]. Cross-sectional X-CT and 123I-IMP-SPECT studies comparing patients with presenile dementia with motor neuron disease (52-year-old, female), with Alzheimer's disease (51-year-old, male) and Pick's disease (49-year-old, male), have found a pattern of reductions in regional cerebral blood flow; the most severe reductions have been in fronto-temporal regions in cases of Pick's disease and presenile dementia with motor neuron disease. 123I-IMP-SPECT in a patient with presenile dementia with motor neuron disease differed significantly from uptake in a case with Alzheimer's disease. Although these findings should be evaluated as part of a prospective longitudinal study with X-CT and 123I-IMP-SPECT, it could be suggested that the development of these diseases has different pathophysiologies."}
{"id": "2601098", "title": "[Recent progress of neuro-imaging for the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease and dementia].", "content": "[Recent progress of neuro-imaging for the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease and dementia]."}
{"id": "2601097", "title": "[Pathophysiology of dementia and medical imaging].", "content": "[Pathophysiology of dementia and medical imaging]. Dementia is not a particular disease but a clinical syndrome based on the subjective and objective symptoms. Morphological imaging modalities such as X-ray computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can accurately identify those which can be treated. Functional imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can visualize the regional decrease of neuronal function as mapping of cerebral blood flow and metabolism. Although they are useful for differential diagnosis and assessment of neuronal activity in patients with dementia, they cannot provide an information about the dementia itself. Recent rapid developments in molecular biology have started to clarify the underlying pathophysiology of various neurological diseases. A combination of these knowledge and the new imaging technique may bring an exciting new field in understanding the cause and the treatment of dementia."}
{"id": "2601094", "title": "[Clinical application of brain perfusion SPECT imaging to dementia].", "content": "[Clinical application of brain perfusion SPECT imaging to dementia]. Brain perfusion SPECT imaging has been applied to patients with dementia using 123I-IMP and 99mTc-HM-PAO. Brain blood flow closely parallels regional brain metabolism or brain function with normal cerebrovascular function. Therefore neuronal activity can be indirectly evaluated by in vivo brain perfusion imaging in dementia. This nuclear medicine technique is quite useful for the differential diagnosis, assessment of the degree and localization of the affected area, disease course, and therapeutic effect. IMP seems to be superior to HM-PAO in detecting focal decreased perfusion and quantitative analysis. Hereafter the brain perfusion SPECT study will be more widespread. Neuroreceptor imaging is highly expected as the next step of a brain SPECT study."}
{"id": "2594881", "title": "The pattern of function-related regional cerebral blood flow investigated by single photon emission tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO in patients with presenile Alzheimer's disease and Korsakoff's psychosis.", "content": "The pattern of function-related regional cerebral blood flow investigated by single photon emission tomography with 99mTc-HMPAO in patients with presenile Alzheimer's disease and Korsakoff's psychosis. Single photon emission tomography (SPET) with the lipophilic blood flow marker 99mTc-hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) has been used to determine regional uptake of radiolabel into brain regions of patients with presenile Alzheimer's disease and Korsakoff's psychosis, and age-matched controls. Using occipital cortical uptake as reference area, the pattern of relative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was determined in other cortical areas and basal ganglia. In Alzheimer's disease, reduction in rCBF occurred most strikingly in posterior temporal and parietal areas. By contrast, in Korsakoff's psychosis, posterior temporal rCBF was maintained, although there was a trend to reduced tracer uptake in other cortical areas. These impairments of flow were correlated with impairments of neuropsychological function. In Alzheimer's disease, left posterior temporal and left parietal regions in particular showed rCBF to be strongly correlated with most aspects of cognitive function. In Korsakoff's psychosis, however, impaired flow in frontal regions was correlated with impaired performance on tests of memory and orientation. The findings in Alzheimer's disease show quantitative parallels with those from studies using Positron Emission Tomography (PET), and extend our understanding of the relationship between cognition and regional brain function in dementia. The findings in Korsakoff's psychosis offer the first direct evidence linking frontal lobe dysfunction with the cognitive impairment seen in the disorder."}
{"id": "2538276", "title": "Determination of cerebral blood flow by SPECT: a valuable tool in the investigation of dementia?", "content": "Determination of cerebral blood flow by SPECT: a valuable tool in the investigation of dementia? Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have demonstrated distinctive abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD), multi-infarct-dementia (MID) and Pick's disease. Since PET is a complicated and expensive technique, its clinical application will be limited in the near future. An important finding in these PET studies is persistent coupling of brain metabolism and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Therefore it should be possible to demonstrate bilateral temporoparietal hypometabolism as seen in patients with clinically diagnosed AD indirectly by measuring cerebral blood flow by Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT). We report our first experiences with SPECT in the differential diagnosis of dementia with four case histories. We demonstrated temporoparietal hypoperfusion in AD and frontal hypoperfusion in Pick's disease as shown previously by PET. We could not demonstrate a typical SPECT in MID. The main purpose of SPECT in MID could be exclusion of coexisting AD. Based on current knowledge the possibilities and the limitation of this new technique are discussed. It is concluded that rCBF-SPECT may be of value in the diagnosis of AD and Pick's disease. Before this method can be used in daily clinical routine, its diagnostic value should be established according to principles of clinical decision making."}
{"id": "2535422", "title": "Positron imaging in dementing illnesses.", "content": "Positron imaging in dementing illnesses."}
{"id": "2532750", "title": "Cerebral blood flow measured by SPECT as a diagnostic tool in the study of dementia.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow measured by SPECT as a diagnostic tool in the study of dementia."}
{"id": "2530079", "title": "[Single-photon emission-computed tomography in the differential diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[Single-photon emission-computed tomography in the differential diagnosis of dementia]. To assess the value of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the differential diagnosis of dementia SPECT and conventional computed tomography were performed in 77 patients (50 men, 27 women, mean age 59 [28-90] years) with dementia diagnosed by a battery of psychometric tests. In 13 out of 15 patients with dementia of Alzheimer type SPECT showed a typical Alzheimer pattern (bilateral parietotemporal perfusion defects). Both patients with dementia of Pick type had definite decreases in frontal perfusion. All 21 patients with dementia due to Huntington's chorea showed a typical pattern with absent perfusion of the head of the caudate nucleus, although in three of them conventional computed tomography didn't demonstrate complete atrophy of this structure. Out of 23 patients with multi-infarct dementia there were 17 with focal uptake deficits at various sites, while six displayed an Alzheimer pattern. In Korsakoff's syndrome (n = 11), Down's syndrome (n = 1), Fahr's syndrome (n = 2), senile chorea (n = 1) and HIV encephalopathy (n = 1) no typical distribution patterns were noted. Single photon emission computed tomography can make a contribution to the diagnosis and classification of primary degenerative dementias and can be used to differentiate them from other forms of dementia."}
{"id": "2521055", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]IMP in the differential diagnosis of psychiatric disorders.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]IMP in the differential diagnosis of psychiatric disorders. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]N-isopropyl iodoamphetamine--[123I]IMP--was used to study regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 94 psychiatric patients and six controls. Patients with dementias had distinct brain-image patterns, consistent with the expected neuropathology. Major depressives had decreased cortical and subcortical rCBF. Increased caudate rCBF was observed in schizophrenics and other psychoses with positive symptoms. SPECT is a practical method of functional brain imaging with potential in the differential diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders. Further studies are needed to assess the effect of other variables on brain-image patterns."}
{"id": "3383904", "title": "Application of I-123 HIPDM as a lung imaging agent.", "content": "Application of I-123 HIPDM as a lung imaging agent. N,N,N'-Trimethyl-N'-(2-Hydroxyl-3-Methyl-5-123I Iodobenzyl)-1,3-Propanediamine.Hcl (123I-HIPDM) has been used for diagnosis of patients with strokes and dementias. Since this radiopharmaceutical is also accumulated in the lung, we routinely performed a lung image or images immediately prior to cerebral planar and SPECT images after a 3-5 mCi 123I-HIPDM injection. During the past 14 months, we obtained 78 (age from 41 to 92 years, average 66.7 +/- 8.9 years; 64 males, 14 females) suspected stroke or dementia patients' lung images. All lung images were correlated to chest X-ray (CXR) or CT and other clinical data. Sixty five of 78 patients had normal lungs showing homogeneous distribution of activity throughout the lungs which correlated well to normal CXR and/or CT studies. Abnormal scintigraphic patterns of the 13 patients included lung defect (5 bronchogenic carcinoma with or without atelectasis) and decreased uptake in apices (8 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The findings of pulmonary intrathoracic pathologies on lung images with 123I-HIPDM suggests further evaluation of the agent for detection of localized pulmonary diseases and pulmonary physiological studies relating to amine metabolism."}
{"id": "3266886", "title": "[N-isopropyl I-123 p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) brain SPECT in dementia].", "content": "[N-isopropyl I-123 p-iodoamphetamine (IMP) brain SPECT in dementia]."}
{"id": "3265766", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in motor neuron disease with dementia.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in motor neuron disease with dementia. Single photon emission computed tomography with [123 I] isopropylamphetamine was carried out on a patient with motor neuron disease with dementia. [123 I] uptake was decreased in the frontal lobes. This would reflect the histopathological findings such as neuronal loss and gliosis in the frontal lobes."}
{"id": "3265101", "title": "A comparison of Tc-99m HM-PAO and I-123 IMP cerebral SPECT images in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "A comparison of Tc-99m HM-PAO and I-123 IMP cerebral SPECT images in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia. SPECT images of the brain can be obtained using either 123I labelled amines or 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime (HM-PAO). Both materials produce images which are blood flow dominated and so appear similar in normal subjects, although the respective mechanisms of uptake are not yet finally established. It seems likely, however, that the different mechanisms of uptake are responsible for recent reports of some differences seen in images obtained with the two types of agent in patients with cerebral pathology, mainly cerebrovascular disease. In this study, 12 demented patients, 6 with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 6 with multi infarct dementia (MID), were imaged with 123I-isopropylamphetamine (IMP) and 99mTc-HM-PAO and the images compared. Significantly more lesions were seen with IMP than HM-PAO (P less than 0.02); out of a possible 120 sites, 41 lesions were seen with IMP compared to 28 with HM-PAO, 23 being seen with both agents. However, it is concluded that either agent can be used for the differential diagnosis of dementia, a task for which the new cerebral blood flow agents seem well suited."}
{"id": "3263980", "title": "Quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow using SPECT and [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO compared to xenon-133.", "content": "Quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow using SPECT and [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO compared to xenon-133. The uptake and retention in a 2 cm thick brain section was recorded serially by SPECT after i.v. injection of [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO (HM-PAO). In 16 patients, the fraction of the administered dose retained by the brain was 5.2 +/- 1%, showing a peak after 40-50s, then decreasing by 10% within the first 10 min and then by only 0.4% per hour. The image contrast was measured in each patient as the regional hemispheric asymmetry difference in percent of the highest value of the two regions. It decreased from 31% at 30-40 s to 25% at 10 min. At 24 h, a value of 19% was reached. Using the images obtained at 10 min after injection, a region to region comparison of the original and corrected HM-PAO images to the xenon-133 regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) images was performed. Forty-four patients with stroke, epilepsy, dementia, basal ganglia disease, and tumors and control subjects were included in this comparison. The algorithm proposed by Lassen et al. was used to correct the original images for back diffusion of tracer (brain to blood); a good correlation very close to the line of identity between the corrected HM-PAO and xenon-133 data was obtained when using a conversion/clearance ratio of 1.5 and when the noninvolved hemisphere was used as a reference region (r = 0.86, p less than 0.0001). Serial arterial and cerebral venous blood sampling was performed over 10 min following i.v. injection of HM-PAO in six patients. An overall brain retention fraction of 0.37 +/- 0.03 (mean +/- SEM) was calculated from the data. An average CBF of 0.62 +/- 0.12 ml/g/min was determined on the basis of the Fick principle; this compared to a value of 0.59 +/- 0.09 ml/g/min (mean +/- SEM) measured by the xenon-133 inhalation method. The two sets of CBF values correlated linearly with a correlation coefficient of 0.97 (p less than 0.01). Inserting the average CBF value for the hemisphere as measured by the Fick principle into the algorithm described by Lassen et al. yields absolute rCBF values (ml/g/min) directly from the corrected HM-PAO images.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3263978", "title": "The use of [99mTc]-HM-PAO in the diagnosis of primary degenerative dementia.", "content": "The use of [99mTc]-HM-PAO in the diagnosis of primary degenerative dementia. The clinical value of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the differential diagnosis of dementia due to cerebral atrophy was evaluated by comparing the pattern of distribution [99mTc]-HM-PAO in three dementing conditions. Imaging was carried out in 26 patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease, 14 with dementia of the frontal-lobe type, and 13 with progressive supranuclear palsy. Images were evaluated and reported without knowledge of clinical diagnosis with respect to regions of reduced uptake of tracer. Reduced uptake in the posterior cerebral hemispheres was characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, while selective anterior hemisphere abnormalities characterized both dementia of the frontal-lobe type and progressive supranuclear palsy. The latter conditions could be distinguished on the basis of the appearance of integrity of the rim of the frontal cortex. The technique has an important role in the differentiation of degenerative dementias."}
{"id": "3263977", "title": "CBF tomograms with [99mTc-HM-PAO in patients with dementia (Alzheimer type and HIV) and Parkinson's disease--initial results.", "content": "CBF tomograms with [99mTc-HM-PAO in patients with dementia (Alzheimer type and HIV) and Parkinson's disease--initial results. We present preliminary data on the utility of functional brain imaging with [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the study of patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), HIV-related dementia syndrome, and the \"on-off\" syndrome of Parkinson's disease. In comparison with a group of age-matched controls, the DAT patients revealed distinctive bilateral temporal and posterior parietal deficits, which correlate with detailed psychometric evaluation. Patients with amnesia as the main symptom (group A) showed bilateral mesial temporal lobe perfusion deficits (p less than 0.02). More severely affected patients (group B) with significant apraxia, aphasia, or agnosia exhibited patterns compatible with bilateral reduced perfusion in the posterior parietal cortex, as well as reduced perfusion to both temporal lobes, different from the patients of the control group (p less than 0.05). SPECT studies of HIV patients with no evidence of intracraneal space occupying pathology showed marked perfusion deficits. Patients with Parkinson's disease and the \"on-off\" syndrome studied during an \"on\" phase (under levodopa therapy) and on another occasion after withdrawal of levodopa (\"off\") demonstrated a significant change in the uptake of [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO in the caudate nucleus (lower on \"off\") and thalamus (higher on \"off\"). These findings justify the present interest in the functional evaluation of the brain of patients with dementia. [99mTc]-d,l-HM-PAO and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF)/SPECT appear useful and highlight individual disorders of flow in a variety of neuropsychiatric conditions."}
{"id": "3263976", "title": "[99mTc]-HM-PAO SPECT in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "[99mTc]-HM-PAO SPECT in Parkinson's disease. Thirty-six patients affected by Parkinson's disease were studied using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and [99mTc]-HM-PAO as a tracer. The scanning procedure was performed 16-24 h after discontinuation of specific therapy. Tracer activity ratios were determined in 10 pairs of cerebellar, cortical, and subcortical regions. Data were compared with those of 10 age-matched controls. Most of the regions examined did not show any relevant change between parkinsonian and control subjects. Notably, mean activity in striatal regions were similar in the two groups. Increased activity in caudate-putamen was found in patients who were on chronic DOPA therapy. Side-to-side asymmetries in the basal ganglia increased with the severity of the disease. Significant reductions of tracer uptake, from control values, were observed bilaterally in the parietal cortex. These deficits were more pronounced in patients with mental deterioration and in subjects who had been chronically treated with anticholinergic drugs. Parietal perfusion deficits in parkinsonian patients resemble those described in Alzheimer's dementia. These findings suggest that the heterogeneous alterations of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in parkinsonian patients reflect the multifactorial pathophysiology of the disease."}
{"id": "3262723", "title": "Assessment of demented patients by dynamic SPECT of inhaled xenon-133.", "content": "Assessment of demented patients by dynamic SPECT of inhaled xenon-133. We studied the potential for using dynamic single photon emission computed tomography of inhaled xenon-133 (133Xe) gas in the assessment of demented patients. An advanced ring-type single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) \"HEADTOME\" with improved spatial resolution [15 mm in full width at half maximum (FWHM)] was used for tomographic measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). All 34 patients underwent a detailed psychiatric examination and x-ray computed tomography scan, and matched research criteria for Alzheimer's disease (n = 13), senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (n = 9), or multi-infarct dementia (n = 12). In comparison with a senile control group (n = 7), mean CBF of both the whole brain and the temporo-parietal region was significantly less in the Alzheimer's disease and senile dementia Alzheimer type groups, but no significant difference was seen between the senile control group and multi-infarct dementia group. The correlation was 0.72 (p less than 0.004) between the mean CBF of the whole brain and the score of Hasegawa's Dementia Scale, and 0.94 (p less than 0.0001) between rCBF of the temporo-parietal region and the scale in Alzheimer's disease. In the senile dementia Alzheimer type group, the correlations were 0.77 (p less than 0.01) and 0.83 (p less than 0.004) respectively. No significant correlations were found in the multi-infarct dementia group. A temporo-parietal reduction in the distribution of the rCBF characteristic in the Alzheimer's disease group and a patchy whole brain reduction characteristic in the multi-infarct dementia group was detected. The ability of our improved SPECT to provide both quantitative measurement of rCBF and characteristic rCBF distribution patterns, makes it a promising tool for research or routine examination of demented patients."}
{"id": "3261331", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in AIDS dementia complex.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in AIDS dementia complex. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies were performed in AIDS dementia complex using IMP in 12 patients (and HM-PAO in four of these same patients). In all patients, SPECT revealed either multiple or focal uptake defects, the latter corresponding with focal signs or symptoms in all but one case. Computerized tomography showed a diffuse cerebral atrophy in eight of 12 patients, magnetic resonance imaging exhibited changes like atrophy and/or leukoencephalopathy in two of five cases. Our data indicate that both disturbance of cerebral amine metabolism and alteration of local perfusion share in the pathogenesis of AIDS dementia complex. SPECT is an important aid in the diagnosis of AIDS dementia complex and contributes to the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder."}
{"id": "3260508", "title": "Clinical application of single-photon-emission computed tomography studies in dementia.", "content": "Clinical application of single-photon-emission computed tomography studies in dementia."}
{"id": "3260013", "title": "Cognitive and brain imaging measures of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognitive and brain imaging measures of Alzheimer's disease. The need to identify specific forms of dementia and their stages has fostered a surge to differentiate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from related dementias. Research has taken several directions, focusing on neuropsychological assessments, and now on neuroimaging with positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). Defining methodological criteria for the diagnostic indicators is a major focus for these imaging methods."}
{"id": "3258902", "title": "Dementia of frontal lobe type.", "content": "Dementia of frontal lobe type. A significant proportion of patients with presenile dementia due to primary cerebral atrophy do not have Alzheimer's disease. One form of non-Alzheimer dementia may be designated as dementia of frontal lobe type (DFT), on the basis of a characteristic neuropsychological picture suggestive of frontal lobe disorder, confirmed by findings on single photon emission tomography. The case histories of seven patients exemplify the disorder: a presentation of social misconduct and personality change, unconcern and disinhibition, in the presence of physical well-being and few neurological signs. Assessment revealed economic and concrete speech with verbal stereotypes, variable memory impairment, and marked abnormalities on tasks sensitive to frontal lobe function. Visuo-spatial disorder was invariably absent. Comparisons of DFT and Alzheimer patients revealed qualitative differences in clinical presentation, neurological signs, profile of psychological disability, electroencephalography, single photon emission tomography and demography. DFT, which may represent forms of Pick's disease, may be more common than is often recognised."}
{"id": "3258512", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal iofetamine I 123 uptake reflects dementia severity.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography in Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal iofetamine I 123 uptake reflects dementia severity. To determine whether abnormalities in regional cerebral functional activity estimated by iofetamine hydrochloride I 123 and single photon emission computed tomography can be detected in mild or moderate as well as severe cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we performed iofetamine I 123-single photon emission computed tomography in 37 patients with probable AD (nine patients with mild, 18 patients with moderate, and ten patients with severe dementia) and nine age-matched control subjects. Iofetamine I 123 uptake was measured in right and left frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices. Mean (right and left) iofetamine I 123 activity was lowest in the parietal region of patients with AD and was significantly reduced in the other three regions compared with control subjects. Only in the parietal region was lower relative iofetamine I 123 activity associated with an impaired level of patient function and with cognitive deficit."}
{"id": "3257439", "title": "[Nuclear medicine diagnosis of Alzheimer type dementia].", "content": "[Nuclear medicine diagnosis of Alzheimer type dementia]. Eleven patients with Alzheimer type dementia were investigated by single-photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT) using 99mTc-hexamethylpropylene-aminoxim (HM-PAO). Nine had a typical, symmetrically reduced enrichment in the parieto-temporo-occipital area. In three of these nine patients a similar pattern was recorded additionally in the frontal, in the remaining two in the temporal or parietal region. In a semi-quantitative evaluation radioactivity concentrations in the cerebrum and cerebellum were compared. It demonstrated that there was in relation to the cerebellum a reduced concentration in seven of the eight studied cerebral regions. The relative blood flow of the parieto-temporo-occipital region was most markedly affected and in patients with Alzheimer type dementia was reduced by 25% below that of normal subjects. The results indicate that cerebral SPECT with HM-PAO is a reasonable method of investigation to confirm the diagnosis of \"Alzheimer type dementia\" and exclude other cerebral disease, especially if pathognomonic findings are to be obtained."}
{"id": "2973469", "title": "The use of technetium-99m-HM-PAO in the assessment of patients with dementia and other neuropsychiatric conditions.", "content": "The use of technetium-99m-HM-PAO in the assessment of patients with dementia and other neuropsychiatric conditions. One hundred fourteen patients suffering from neuropsychiatric conditions have been studied using 99mTc-labeled hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HM-PAO) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Ninety-one patients had a firm clinical diagnosis while 23 were examined without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis. Of the 91 patients, 51 were suffering from dementia, 25 multi-infarct type and 26 Alzheimer's disease. In 19 of the Alzheimer's patients, a characteristic pattern of decreased perfusion in the parieto-occipital regions was demonstrated while those with multi-infarct type showed varying degrees of irregular uptake in the cerebral cortex. These appearances are similar to those shown with positron emission tomography (PET) and we believe that HM-PAO will provide a widely available method for identifying patients with Alzheimer's disease. Twenty-nine patients were suffering from diseases involving the basal ganglia. Fifteen patients with Parkinson's disease showed no significant abnormality in basal ganglia uptake, while 7 or 8 patients with Huntington's disease who had full examinations showed decreased uptake in the caudate nuclei. Similarly, four of six patients with other basal ganglia diseases showed impaired uptake by basal ganglia, and it is concluded that HM-PAO may be useful for the diagnosis and management of this type of patient. Twenty-three patients received HM-PAO imaging as part of their diagnostic work-up; in 19 of them, detailed follow-up was obtained, which indicated that in 7 cases the result of the HM-PAO scan altered the clinical diagnosis and in 9 cases resulted in a change in management. In the remaining 13 cases, the study was found to be helpful in confirming the diagnosis."}
{"id": "2836158", "title": "[Early somatosensory evoked potentials in ischemic cerebrovascular diseases--I: Methodology, patients, normal group and review of the literature].", "content": "[Early somatosensory evoked potentials in ischemic cerebrovascular diseases--I: Methodology, patients, normal group and review of the literature]. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) were examined in 140 patients suffering from cerebro-vascular ischemic disease. Patients were classified in 1. asymptomatic stenosis/occlusion, 2. complicated migraine, 3. transient ischemic attacks (TIA), 4. reversible ischemic neurologic deficit (RIND), 5. completed stroke and 6. Multiinfarct-dementia. Normal SEP values were obtained from 26 age-correlated normal persons without a history of neurologic or psychiatric disease. The findings were correlated to clinical data, EEG, Single-Photon Emission and Transmission Computertomography (SPECT, TCT). SEP were done by stimulation of the median nerve. We evaluated central conduction time (CCT), amplitude ratio (AR) and number of phases (PHAS) of cortical potentials within 50 ms. Also quotient of amplitude ratio left stimulation side to right stimulation side (AR l/r) was calculated. EEG were recorded by 19 electrodes according to the 10-20 scheme, focal signs and diffuse changes were evaluated. In TCT the location of hypodense lesions was evaluated. SPECT was performed by application of J123 IMP and Tc99 HMPAO as a tracer. Focal decrease of tracer uptake compared to the compartment was evaluated. Results of animal experiments and clinical studies are discussed in respect of patients and methods."}
{"id": "3819832", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus before and after shunting.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus before and after shunting. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured by xenon-133 inhalation and single photon emission tomography in 17 demented patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus before and after shunt treatment. All patients had a decreased conductance to outflow (C out) of cerebrospinal fluid as measured by lumboventricular perfusion (C out less than 0.12 ml X mm Hg-1 X min-1). Computerized tomography (CT) scanning, clinical assessment, and neuropsychological grading were performed pre- and postoperatively. The preoperative CBF studies revealed abnormal flow patterns in all patients. Fourteen patients showed moderate-sized, large, or very large central low-flow areas, and four patients had reduced flow bilaterally in the occipital and contiguous temporoparietal regions. After shunting, six patients had a significant reduction in the size of the central low-flow area on the CBF map, agreeing well with the changes of ventricular size on the CT scan. All six patients showed an improvement in either clinical or neuropsychological grading. In 10 of the remaining 11 patients flow patterns were essentially unchanged; one patient deteriorated further. Four of these 11 patients improved on postoperative clinical or neuropsychological testing. Thus, a positive correlation was found between the changes in CBF and the reduction of the ventricular size on the CT scan, but changes in CBF as measured by the present technique did not accompany improvement in the functional state in all patients."}
{"id": "3502360", "title": "The investigation of dementia syndromes by 133Xenon dynamic single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "The investigation of dementia syndromes by 133Xenon dynamic single photon emission computed tomography. The patterns of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease is compared with that of patients with dementia caused by multiple cerebral infarctions. A total of 47 patients were examined with 133Xenon SPECT. The results show that the global CBF correlates with the severity of dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease and that the two forms of dementia show two different patterns of disturbances."}
{"id": "3502292", "title": "[Semi-quantitative method of N-isopropyl-(123I)-p-iodoamphetamine accumulation in cerebrum: cerebrum to cerebellum accumulation ratio].", "content": "[Semi-quantitative method of N-isopropyl-(123I)-p-iodoamphetamine accumulation in cerebrum: cerebrum to cerebellum accumulation ratio]. Semi-quantitative method of N-isopropyl-(123I)-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) accumulation in cerebrum by using 123I-IMP SPECT was tried. Ratio of counts in whole cerebrum to those in normal cerebellum was calculated, and this accumulation is defined as cerebrum to cerebellum accumulation ratio. In group of patients with dementia or patients who were remaining in bed, significantly low accumulation ratio was observed, while in \"normal\" group, no differences in sex and aging were observed. Calculation of cerebrum to cerebellum accumulation ratio was concluded as a useful method of evaluating the accumulation of 123I-IMP in cerebrum."}
{"id": "3501801", "title": "Focal cerebral hypoperfusion and selective cognitive deficit in dementia of the Alzheimer type.", "content": "Focal cerebral hypoperfusion and selective cognitive deficit in dementia of the Alzheimer type. Regional cerebral blood flow was investigated using single photon emission computed tomography and xenon-133 intravenous injection in six patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) with atypical focal clinical presentation, and in 20 age-matched healthy volunteers. The patients had a progressive and preponderant cognitive deficit and a focal hypoperfusion that correlated with the neuropsychological findings, whereas the average flow did not significantly differ from that of controls. The assessment of concordant haemodynamic and neuropsychological focal abnormalities could be useful in the diagnosis of atypical cases of DAT."}
{"id": "3501800", "title": "Regional cerebral blood flow in normal pressure hydrocephalus.", "content": "Regional cerebral blood flow in normal pressure hydrocephalus. Regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) was studied preoperatively and at 2 and 6 months postoperatively in 22 normal pressure hydrocephalus patients using xenon-133 inhalation and single photon emission computed tomography. Sixteen of the 22 patients improved (improved group) and six did not (unimproved group). The following comparisons were made: (1) preoperative rcbf in the improved group, to 14 normal elderly volunteers and to that in 59 SDAT (senile dementia of the Alzheimer type) patients; (2) preoperative rcbf in the improved and unimproved groups to determine if rcbf could predict surgical outcome; (3) pre- to postoperative rcbf in the improved group to see if increased cbf accounted for clinical improvement. The findings were: (1) preoperative rcbf in the improved group was lower than that in normal controls but was the same as that in SDAT; however, the ratios of rcbf values in anterior and posterior brain regions were significantly different between improved group and SDAT (p = 0.02); (2) an anterior/posterior ratio of 1.05 correctly classified surgical outcome in 19/22 patients; five of six in the unimproved group were above this cut off while 14/16 in the improved group were below; (3) in the improved group rcbf increased at 2 but not at 6 months after surgery without a corresponding reduction of clinical signs, supporting the notion that increase in cbf probably does not account for clinical improvement in normal pressure hydrocephalus."}
{"id": "3499489", "title": "Initial experience with technetium-99m HM-PAO brain SPECT.", "content": "Initial experience with technetium-99m HM-PAO brain SPECT. Technetium-99m hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime ([99mTc]HM-PAO) brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed with a dual head rotating scintillation camera. Normal tracer distribution and side/side differences of counting rates were obtained in 11 healthy volunteers. Almost stable gray/white matter ratios were found (1.97-2.1) in one normal subject during 2 hr after tracer administration. Eighty-three investigated patients had the following diagnoses (in parentheses is percent of positive findings in each group): cerebral vascular disease 18 (94.4%), epilepsy 23 (82.6%), extrapyramidal disorders 8 (100%), dementia 12 (100%), headache 11 (63.6%), psychiatric disorders 11 (27.3%). In addition, SPECT was performed in 28 male volunteers during motor or visual imagery tasks and a significant increase (p = 0.035) of relative tracer deposition was observed in the left inferior occipital region during visual imagery when compared with motor imagery. The results indicate that [99mTc]HM-PAO SPECT is valuable for demonstrating pathologic and physiologic changes of the brain."}
{"id": "3499484", "title": "Single photon emission tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the investigation of dementia.", "content": "Single photon emission tomography using 99mTc-HM-PAO in the investigation of dementia. Single photon emission tomographic imaging of the brain using 99mTc HM-PAO was carried out in patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, non-Alzheimer frontal-lobe dementia, and progressive supranuclear palsy. Independent assessment of reductions in uptake revealed posterior hemisphere abnormalities in the majority of the Alzheimer group, and selective anterior hemisphere abnormalities in both other groups. The findings were consistent with observed patterns of mental impairment. The imaging technique has potential value in the differential diagnosis of primary cerebral atrophy."}
{"id": "3496733", "title": "Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission tomography with radio-iodine labelled compounds in the diagnosis of dementia.", "content": "Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission tomography with radio-iodine labelled compounds in the diagnosis of dementia. White matter lesions and T1 changes were identified using NMR and then compared between groups of patients suffering from dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), Multiple infarct dementia (MID) and normal controls. All DAT and MID patients were also imaged with a gamma camera using 123Iodo-n-isopropyl-amphetamine, a radiopharmaceutical whose uptake in the brain follows the regional blood flow. While NMR was not able to differentiate between DAT and MID, 19 out of 21 DAT patients compared to four out of 18 MID patients showed bilateral parietal lesions on IMP scans."}
{"id": "3494754", "title": "Differential diagnosis in dementia using the cerebral blood flow agent 99mTc HM-PAO: a SPECT study.", "content": "Differential diagnosis in dementia using the cerebral blood flow agent 99mTc HM-PAO: a SPECT study. One of the potential clinical uses of the new cerebral blood flow agent 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamineoxime (HM-PAO) is the investigation of dementia, in particular to differentiate between dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and multiinfarct dementia (MID). In this study 27 patients, 17 with DAT and 10 with MID, and three normal volunteers were imaged both with single photon emission CT and magnetic resonance. The HM-PAO perfusion deficits were much more common in the DAT group than in the MID group, especially in the temporoparietooccipital (TPO) regions. The two groups of patients were found to be significantly different (p less than 0.02), as regards the frequency of occurrence of bilateral TPO perfusion deficits. Four of the 17 DAT patients did not have bilateral TPO deficits but these included the three least impaired patients as assessed by psychometric testing."}
{"id": "3493756", "title": "The diagnosis of dementia with single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "The diagnosis of dementia with single photon emission computed tomography. Single photon emission computed tomography is a practical modality for the study of physiologic cerebral activity in vivo. We utilized single photon emission computed tomography and N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine iodine 123 to evaluate regional cerebral blood flow in nine patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), five healthy elderly control subjects, and two patients with multi-infarct dementia. We found that all subjects with AD demonstrated flow deficits in temporoparietal cortex bilaterally, and that the ratio of activity in bilateral temporoparietal cortex to activity in the whole slice allowed the differentiation of all patients with AD from both the controls and from the patients with multi-infarct dementia. Furthermore, this ratio showed a strong correlation with disease severity in the AD group. Single photon emission computed tomography appears to be useful in the differential diagnosis of dementia and reflects clinical features of the disease."}
{"id": "3332036", "title": "Evaluation of regional cerebral blood flow with 99mTc-d, 1 HM-PAO and SPECT.", "content": "Evaluation of regional cerebral blood flow with 99mTc-d, 1 HM-PAO and SPECT. The imaging of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) by 99mTc-d, 1 HM-PAO and SPECT is described. Its relevance to clinical syndromes, such as stroke, transient ischemic attacks, various forms of dementia, epilepsy, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, is reported."}
{"id": "3519903", "title": "Perfusion and receptor SPECT in the dementias--George Taplin memorial lecture.", "content": "Perfusion and receptor SPECT in the dementias--George Taplin memorial lecture."}
{"id": "3492011", "title": "Brain changes in dementia of Alzheimer's type relevant to new imaging diagnostic methods.", "content": "Brain changes in dementia of Alzheimer's type relevant to new imaging diagnostic methods. The aim of the article is to correlate grey and white matter changes and their topography to the results of modern methods for brain imaging such as CT, rCBF, PET, SPECT and NMR in Alzheimer's type of dementia. The findings are based on the study of a large material investigated thoroughly patho-anatomically. The findings are correlated with psychiatric and neurophysiologic follow-up studies. The degenerative grey matter process shows a regionally varying accent according to a pattern which is consistent and typical for the disease. This corresponds to metabolic changes on rCBF, PET and SPECT and thereby becomes of diagnostic value. This pattern is largely symmetric. Metabolic asymmetries have however been reported on PET scans. In this context individual variations of the topographic degenerative brain pattern and normal anatomical brain asymmetries are of interest. The white matter however also frequently shows changes, in particular loss of myelin and axons and a mild gliosis, slight in 1/3 of the cases and severe in an additional 1/3. These changes cause a decrease of density in the centrum semiovale correlating to lipid depletion. They may also influence the ventricular shape and size, of interest in CT or NMR studies. Also here variations in ventricular shape, normal and such due to pathological processes unrelated to the Alzheimer disease, may cause confusion, regarding degree of atrophy and even type of brain process. Such factors should be considered in the interpretation of non-invasive brain studies."}
{"id": "3490634", "title": "[Diagnostic usefulness of SPECT with Tc99m HM-PAO in cerebral pathology in outpatient practice].", "content": "[Diagnostic usefulness of SPECT with Tc99m HM-PAO in cerebral pathology in outpatient practice]. After having outlined the importance of evaluating, in cerebral diseases, the regional cerebral blood flow by means of a non invasive method, the advantages of SPECT with Tc99m HM-PAO compared to the SPECT with radioxenon and iodoamphetamine are point out. The results obtained with this method on 28 different patients, six of with were normal subjects, while the remaining 22 were suffering: six from cerebro vascular disease, four from epilepsy, three from TIA, six from dementia, two from depressive syndrome and one from hemicrania are reported. The comparison of the results with literature references, proves that the tracer employed is definitely superior to TCT, while there is a coincidence with SPECT data obtained with radioxenon and iodoamphetamine. The radiotracer employed can be successfully used, due to its convenient physical-chemical features, in a daily routine, for the evaluation of regional cerebral blood flow in encephalic diagnostics."}
{"id": "3488336", "title": "SPECT study of regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "SPECT study of regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease. A common cause of dementia in late midlife and old age is Alzheimer disease (AD), which affects more than one in 20 individuals over the age of 65. Past studies of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with AD here suggested blood flow abnormalities, but findings have differed. We have studied 37 patients diagnosed as having AD with inhalation and washout of 133Xe and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), obtaining evidence of abnormal rCBF patterns in 19. Flow reductions were most common in the temporoparietal regions and were occasionally found in the frontal areas. Investigators using positron-emission tomography (PET) have identified similar findings with respect to rCBF and regional oxygen, glucose, and protein metabolism. The SPECT determination of rCBF, which gives information similar to that provided by PET, may assume importance in the diagnosis of AD and in the differential diagnosis of the dementias."}
{"id": "3023564", "title": "Images of the brain: past as prologue.", "content": "Images of the brain: past as prologue. The invention of the Anger scintillation camera and the development of 99mTc tracers brought about a tenfold increase in nuclear brain scanning between 1963 and 1973, an increase that plateaued with the introduction of x-ray computed tomography. A second growth curve began in 1976 at which time there were four PET centers in the United States, a number that grew to 60 worldwide over the next decade. PET, SPECT, MRI, and MRS are leading us into a new era of in vivo brain chemistry, based on regional bioenergetics and neurotransmission. The immediate impact is in epilepsy, stroke, brain tumors and the dementias, with psychiatric diseases becoming a major focus of research. Receptivity has become a biochemical as well as a psychological approach to mental functions. The finding of elevated D2 dopamine receptors in schizophrenia in living patients may be the forerunner of a new biochemical approach to psychiatry."}
{"id": "3021677", "title": "[123I]iodoamphetamine SPECT imaging.", "content": "[123I]iodoamphetamine SPECT imaging. SPECT imaging of [123I]IMP is reviewed. Methods for radiopharmaceutical production are discussed with an emphasis on labeling small quantities of IMP. Limited angle tomography and full angle SPECT with standard cameras and special imaging systems are reviewed. Selection of collimator and methods of reconstruction are discussed. Clinical studies are described with emphasis on stroke, epilepsy and dementia. The efforts to perform quantitative imaging of rCBF with [123I]IMP are reviewed."}
{"id": "2980527", "title": "123I-N-isopropyl-amphetamine single photon emission computed tomography as a brain imaging technique in dementia.", "content": "123I-N-isopropyl-amphetamine single photon emission computed tomography as a brain imaging technique in dementia. Because of its binding to specific cerebral amine receptor sites 123I-N-isopropyl-amphetamine (IMP) tracer activity can be used as a measure for the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the human brain. In 21 psychiatric in-patients an IMP perfusion study was performed using a rotating gamma camera system. The findings at single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were compared with different clinical parameters including conventional transmission computed tomography. In SPECT, two different patterns of decrease in IMP uptake could be identified. In patients with a history of cerebrovascular disease SPECT showed asymmetrical, multifocal microcirculatory defects without preference for either hemisphere. In patients with suggested Alzheimer type dementia the perfusion deficits involved the gray and white matter of the parieto-occipital lobes in a bilaterally symmetrical mode with variable extension. Thus, by using IMP-SPECT, it was possible to define the underlying pathologic condition in dementia."}
{"id": "2998698", "title": "Single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Single photon emission computed tomography. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is becoming an increasingly important part of routine clinical nuclear medicine. By providing tomographic reconstructions in multiple planes through the patient, SPECT expands the clinical applications in nuclear medicine as well as providing better contrast, edge definition and separation of target from background activities. Imaging techniques have been developed for the evaluation of regional cerebral blood flow using radiolabeled amines. Thus cerebral functional imaging can be used in the diagnosis of acute cerebral infarction, cerebral vascular disease, dementia and epilepsy. SPECT plays a complementary role in the evaluation of coronary artery disease, particularly when it is coupled with thallium-201 and exercise testing. SPECT extends our diagnostic capabilities in additional areas, such as liver and bone scintigraphy as well as tumor imaging with gallium-67."}
{"id": "6150361", "title": "Single photon emission tomography with 123I-isopropylamphetamine in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia.", "content": "Single photon emission tomography with 123I-isopropylamphetamine in Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia."}
