{"id": "21751289", "title": "Test-retest repeatability of MR elastography for noninvasive liver fibrosis assessment in hepatitis C.", "content": "Test-retest repeatability of MR elastography for noninvasive liver fibrosis assessment in hepatitis C. To conduct a rigorous evaluation of the repeatability of liver stiffness assessed by MR elastography (MRE) in healthy and hepatitis-C-infected subjects. A biopsy-correlated repeatability study using four-slice MRE was conducted in five healthy and four HCV-infected subjects. Subjects were scanned twice on day 1 and after 7-14 days. Each slice was acquired during a 14-s breath-hold with a commercially available acquisition technique (MR-Touch, GE Healthcare). Results were analyzed by two independent analysts. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.85 (90% confidence interval [CI]: 0.71 to 0.98) for the between-scan average of maximum stiffness within each slice and 0.88 (90% CI: 0.78 to 0.99) for the average of mean stiffness within each slice for the primary analyst. For both analysts, the average of the mean liver stiffness within each slice was highly reproducible with ICC of 0.93 and 0.94. Within-subject coefficients of variation ranged from 6.07% to 10.78% for HCV+ and healthy subjects. MRE is a highly reproducible modality for assessing liver stiffness in HCV patients and healthy subjects and can discriminate between moderate fibrosis and healthy liver. MRE is a promising modality for noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis (CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00896233)."}
{"id": "16314817", "title": "[Management of cirrhosis complications in HIV patients coinfected with hepatitis B or C virus].", "content": "[Management of cirrhosis complications in HIV patients coinfected with hepatitis B or C virus]. Cirrhosis is a serious complication of viral hepatitis, and its incidence is increasing in HIV patients coinfected with HCV or HBV as they live longer, thanks to effective antiretroviral treatment (Haart). HIV coinfection accelerates the progression of fibrosis in hepatitis. To implement preventive measures, prompt diagnosis of cirrhosis is important, either by liver biopsy or the noninvasive tests for fibrosis now under wide study (FibroTest, FibroScan, etc.). Afterwards, assessment of the severity of cirrhosis and screening for complications are both necessary: testing for liver failure (Child-Pugh and MELD scores), portal hypertension (upper gastrointestinal endoscopy), and hepatocellular carcinoma (ultrasound and alpha fetoprotein assay). Careful consideration of drug prescriptions and possible interactions is essential. Specific treatment for hepatitis B or C virus is possible at this stage of cirrhosis, although more difficult, especially for HCV (results influenced by genotype, additional risk of complications by lactic acidosis or hepatic decompensation). Management of the complications of portal hypertension must be planned, as for those without HIV infection. Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma is still disappointing, and liver transplantation, although possible in these patients, must be evaluated."}
{"id": "16969327", "title": "[Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis virus C].", "content": "[Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis virus C]. Development of liver fibrosis, which leads to cirrhosis, is the principal complication of all chronic liver diseases, regardless of their cause. Knowledge of the existence and severity of fibrosis is important from diagnostic and prognostic viewpoints. Its assessment plays an essential role in the treatment decision and makes it possible to assess the risk of progression to cirrhosis and the onset of its complications. Histologic examination of the liver remains the reference examination for assessing the extent of fibrosis during chronic liver disease. Nonetheless, the number of patients needing assessment, the risks of the punch-biopsy and the cost of this invasive examination have led many to propose other tools to assess fibrosis. Some standard indicators (transaminases, platelets, prothrombin time) have long been recognized as indirect markers of extensive fibrosis. More recently, progress in our knowledge of the mechanisms of liver fibrogenesis have made it possible to identify different peripheral blood components that may be of clinical interest. Thus serum assays of elements of the extracellular matrix, their decay products, or enzymes involved in their metabolism have been proposed as noninvasive indicators. Among these, hyaluronic acid appears the most interesting. For several years, scores have been calculated with algorithms that combine several indicators determined simultaneously to assess fibrosis in patients with hepatitis C and sometimes other chronic liver diseases. The Fibrotest is the best validated and most widely used of these. Finally, Fibroscan is a device for the diagnosis and quantification of hepatic fibrosis, based on the technique of transient elastography. The relative roles of these noninvasive markers and the value of their combinations must still be determined."}
{"id": "21157581", "title": "Transient elastography for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis: a multicentre Canadian study.", "content": "Transient elastography for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis: a multicentre Canadian study. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography (TE) is a promising tool for the noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis. To determine the feasibility and performance of TE in a North American cohort of patients with chronic liver disease. LSMs were obtained using TE in 260 patients with chronic hepatitis B or C, or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease from four Canadian hepatology centres. The accuracy of TE compared with liver biopsy for the prediction of significant fibrosis (Metavir fibrosis score of F2 or greater), bridging fibrosis (Metavir fibrosis score of F3 or greater) and cirrhosis (Metavir fibrosis score of F4 ) was assessed using area under ROC curves (AUROCs), and compared with the aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index. The influence of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and other factors on liver stiffness was determined using linear regression analyses. failure of TE occurred in 2.7% of patients, while liver biopsies were inadequate for staging in 0.8%. Among the remaining 251 patients, the AUROCs of TE for Metavir fibrosis scores of F2 and F3 or greater, and F4 were 0.74 (95% CI 0.68 to 0.80), 0.89 (95% CI 0.84 to 0.94), and 0.94 (95% CI 0.90 to 0.97), respectively. LSM was more accurate than the aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index for bridging fibrosis (AUROC 0.78) and cirrhosis (AUROC 0.88), but not significant fibrosis (AUROC 0.76). At a cut-off of 11.1 kPa, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for cirrhosis (prevalence 11%) were 96%, 81%, 39% and 99%, respectively. For significant fibrosis (prevalence 53%), a cut-off of 7.7 kPa was 68% sensitive and 69% specific, and had a positive predictive value of 70% and a negative predictive value of 65%. Liver stiffness was independently associated with ALT, body mass index and steatosis. The optimal LSM cut-offs for cirrhosis were 11.1 kPa and 11.5 kPa in patients with ALT levels lower than 100 U\u2044L and 100 U\u2044L or greater, respectively. For fibrosis scores of F2 or greater, these figures were 7.0 kPa and 8.6 kPa, respectively. the major role of TE is the exclusion of bridging fibrosis and cirrhosis. However, TE cannot replace biopsy for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis. Because liver stiffness may be influenced by significant ALT elevation, body mass index and\u2044or steatosis, tailored liver stiffness cut-offs may be necessary to account for these factors."}
{"id": "17291712", "title": "[Noninvasive methods for predicting liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C: alternatives to liver biopsy].", "content": "[Noninvasive methods for predicting liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C: alternatives to liver biopsy]. Biochemical markers of liver fibrosis, because they can be tested noninvasively, reproducibly, and reliably, may constitute a true alternative to liver biopsies. Scores must be used only in the circumstances for which they have been validated. Scores for the Fibrotest-Actitest have been studied and validated most widely. Fibroscan, an imaging technique that uses transient elastrography to measures liver stiffness, has been validated acceptably for management of hepatitis C (HCV). General practitioners can order Fibroscan testing to assess the extent of hepatic lesions in patients with chronic HCV. Fibrotest and/or Fibroscan testing may replace liver biopsy in patients who can then receive first-or second-line treatment for HCV, regardless of genotype or transaminase levels. In the future, treatment decisions will probably rely on a combination (after validation) of these scores and on the development of genetic markers for fibrogenesis, to differentiate between patients highly likely and unlikely to develop serious fibrosis."}
{"id": "22957328", "title": "Liver elastography for the diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Liver elastography for the diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with liver cirrhosis. Progressive hepatic fibrosis is a feature of almost all chronic liver diseases. In their final stage, advanced cirrhosis, the clinical signs are diagnostic, but compensated liver cirrhosis is not always easy to diagnose. Apart from liver biopsy, serologic and elastographic non invasive methods for the evaluation of fibrosis severity were developed in the last few years. Studies have been made in order to assess their value for predicting the occurrence of cirrhosis complications, particularly portal hypertension. Both Transient Elastography and ARFI elastography are valuable methods for the early diagnosis of cirrhosis. While TE is a promising method for predicting the presence of portal hypertension in cirrhotic patients, the diagnostic accuracy of ARFI in the liver seems to be poor. Probably the accuracy of ARFI elastography can be significantly increased if spleen stiffness is assessed, alone or in combination with liver stiffness and other parameters."}
{"id": "22912545", "title": "Overview and developments in noninvasive diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Overview and developments in noninvasive diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. High prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and very diverse outcomes that are related to disease form and severity at presentation have made the search for noninvasive diagnostic tools in NAFLD one of the areas with most intense development in hepatology today. Various methods have been investigated in the recent years, including imaging methods like ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging, different forms of liver stiffness measurement, various biomarkers of necroinflammatory processes (acute phase reactants, cytokines, markers of apoptosis), hyaluronic acid and other biomarkers of liver fibrosis. Multicomponent tests, scoring systems and diagnostic panels were also developed with the purposes of differentiating non-alcoholic steatohepatitis from simple steatosis or discriminating between various fibrosis stages. In all of the cases, performance of noninvasive methods was compared with liver biopsy, which is still considered to be a gold standard in diagnosis, but is by itself far from a perfect comparative measure. We present here the overview of the published data on various noninvasive diagnostic tools, some of which appear to be very promising, and we address as well some of still unresolved issues in this interesting field."}
{"id": "22893866", "title": "Clinical applications of transient elastography.", "content": "Clinical applications of transient elastography. Chronic liver disease represents a major public health problem, accounting for significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. As prognosis and management depend mainly on the amount and progression of liver fibrosis, accurate quantification of liver fibrosis is essential for therapeutic decision-making and follow-up of chronic liver diseases. Even though liver biopsy is the gold standard for evaluation of liver fibrosis, non-invasive methods that could substitute for invasive procedures have been investigated during past decades. Transient elastography (TE, FibroScan\u00ae) is a novel non-invasive method for assessment of liver fibrosis with chronic liver disease. TE can be performed in the outpatient clinic with immediate results and excellent reproducibility. Its diagnostic accuracy for assessment of liver fibrosis has been demonstrated in patients with chronic viral hepatitis; as a result, unnecessary liver biopsy could be avoided in some patients. Moreover, due to its excellent patient acceptance, TE could be used for monitoring disease progression or predicting development of liver-related complications. This review aims at discussing the usefulness of TE in clinical practice."}
{"id": "22872942", "title": "[Are non-invasive tests going to replace liver biopsy for diagnosis of liver fibrosis?].", "content": "[Are non-invasive tests going to replace liver biopsy for diagnosis of liver fibrosis?]. Liver fibrosis is associated with chronic liver diseases, and may evolve into cirrhosis that may be complicated by liver failure and portal hypertension. Detection and quantification of liver fibrosis is a key point in the follow-up of patients with chronic liver diseases. Liver biopsy is the gold standard method to assess and quantify fibrosis, but its invasiveness is a limiting factor in everyday clinical practice. Non invasive markers using either biological or radiological parameters have been developed and may decrease the need for liver biopsy in some cases. However, information is limited to fibrosis, and cut-offs values and diagnostic accuracies for significant fibrosis may vary according to the etiology of liver disease. Liver biopsy allows the assessment of intermediate stages of fibrosis and describes accompanying lesions."}
{"id": "22864589", "title": "Noninvasive acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography for assessing the severity of fibrosis in the post-operative patients with biliary atresia.", "content": "Noninvasive acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography for assessing the severity of fibrosis in the post-operative patients with biliary atresia. Liver biopsy (LB) is still considered the \"gold standard\" for hepatological evaluation, but recently noninvasive methods have attempted to replace this invasive procedure. Recently, acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging has been developed as a noninvasive modality to evaluate the stiffness of tissues. ARFI imaging theoretically measures liver stiffness of all the segments independently. The aim of this study was to determine whether ARFI elastography is a reliable method for predicting the severity of fibrosis in the post-operative patients with biliary atresia. ARFI elastography was performed 21 times in eight patients with biliary atresia over the last 2 years. At the same time, we measured serum hyaluronic acid (H value), which is one of the serum elastic makers, to compare ARFI versus values in these patients. We obtained ARFI versus values as the median of S2 to S8 by three consecutive measurements acquired with a Siemens Acuson S2000 (Siemens Medical Systems, Germany). Histological evaluation of fibrosis is graded from F0 (normal) to F4. The normal H value is under 50 mg/dl. One patient had F0 (H value 29.2 mg/dl), four had F1 (H value 11.5-18.1 mg/dl), one had F3 (H value 61.3 mg/dl), two had F4 (H value 29.2, 112 mg/dl). One patient with F4 whose ARFI versus value (3.56 m/s) was the highest, needed liver transplantation and her liver was cirrhotic. These findings suggest that ARFI measurement may be a reliable method for predicting the severity of fibrosis after a Kasai operation."}
{"id": "22863270", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis via spleen stiffness measurement using acoustic radiation force impulse sonoelastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B or C.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis via spleen stiffness measurement using acoustic radiation force impulse sonoelastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B or C. Portal hypertension and splenomegaly are common in patients with cirrhosis. However, there is limited previous in vivo research on the correlation between spleen stiffness and stages of liver fibrosis. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic value of spleen stiffness measurement (SSM), using acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) technology, for liver fibrosis assessment. Eligible patients with chronic hepatitis B or C (n = 163) underwent concurrent liver stiffness measurement (LSM), SSM and percutaneous liver biopsy. Receiver operating characteristic curves estimated the diagnostic performance of SSM, with multiple linear regression models for LSM and SSM determining the significance of explanatory factors. Results indicated significant correlation between LSM and SSM (R(2) = 0.574, P < 0.0001). Using SSM to classify METAVIR fibrosis (METAVIR F) scores, the areas under curves were 0.839 (95% CI: 0.780-0.898) for METAVIR F1 vs F2-4, 0.936 (95% CI: 0.898-0.975) for F1-2 vs F3-4 and 0.932 (95% CI: 0.893-0.971) for F1-3 vs F4, all P < 0.001. Multiple linear regression models identified BMI, spleen stiffness, METAVIR F3 and F4, serum alanine aminotransferase, international normalized ratio of prothrombin time, sodium and platelet count as significant independent explanatory factors for liver stiffness (adjusted R(2) = 0.724, P < 0.001). Male gender, liver stiffness, METAVIR F2, F3 and F4 also significantly and independently explained spleen stiffness (adjusted R(2) = 0.647, P < 0.001). ARFI SSM is potentially useful as a single or adjunct predictor of stages of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22848675", "title": "Prospective validation of ELF test in comparison with Fibroscan and FibroTest to predict liver fibrosis in Asian subjects with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Prospective validation of ELF test in comparison with Fibroscan and FibroTest to predict liver fibrosis in Asian subjects with chronic hepatitis B. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) and FibroTest (FT) are frequently used as non-invasive alternatives for fibrosis staging to liver biopsy. However, to date, diagnostic performances of Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test, which consists of hyaluronic acid, aminoterminal propeptide of procollagen type-III, and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases-1, have not been compared to those of LSM and FT in Asian chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients. Between June 2010 and November 2011, we prospectively enrolled 170 CHB patients who underwent liver biopsies along with LSM, FT, and ELF. The Batts system was used to assess fibrosis stages. Areas under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs) to predict significant fibrosis (F\u22652), advanced fibrosis (F\u22653), and cirrhosis (F\u200a=\u200a4) were 0.901, 0.860, and 0.862 for ELF, respectively; 0.937, 0.956, and 0.963 for LSM; and 0.896, 0.921, and 0.881 for FT. AUROCs to predict F\u22652 were similar between each other, whereas LSM and FT had better AUROCs than ELF for predicting F\u22653 (both p<0.05), and LSM predicted F4 more accurately than ELF (p<0.05). Optimized cutoffs of ELF to maximize sum of sensitivity and specificity were 8.5, 9.4, and 10.1 for F\u22652, F\u22653, and F\u200a=\u200a4, respectively. Using suggested ELF, LSM and FT cutoffs to diagnose F1, F2, F3, and F4, 91 (53.5%), 117 (68.8%), and 110 (64.7%) patients, respectively, were correctly classified according to histological results. ELF demonstrated considerable diagnostic value in fibrosis staging in Asian CHB patients, especially in predicting F\u22652. However, LSM consistently provided better performance for predicting F\u22653 and F4."}
{"id": "22837289", "title": "Liver and spleen stiffness measured by acoustic radiation force impulse elastography for noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis and esophageal varices in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Liver and spleen stiffness measured by acoustic radiation force impulse elastography for noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis and esophageal varices in patients with chronic hepatitis B. To evaluate the performance of liver and spleen stiffness measured by acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography for noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis and esophageal varices in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus. Two hundred sixty-four participants, of whom 60 were healthy volunteers (classified as stage 0), 66 were patients with chronic hepatitis B who had undergone liver biopsy, and 138 were patients with hepatitis B-related cirrhosis, were enrolled in this study. Median liver and spleen stiffness values (meters per second) from 10 successful measurements per participant were obtained. Patients with cirrhosis were examined by upper endoscopy. Significant linear correlations were found between liver (Spearman \u03c1 = 0.87; P < .001) and spleen (Spearman \u03c1 = 0.76; P < .001) stiffness and the fibrosis stage. Liver and spleen stiffness values increased as fibrosis progressed; however, overlaps in liver stiffness were detected in stages 0 and 1 and 1 and 2, and overlaps in spleen stiffness were observed in stages 0 and 1, 1 and 2, and 2 and 3. Liver stiffness cutoff values were 1.69 m/s for predicting stage 3 or greater (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUROC] = 0.99) and 1.88 m/s for stage 4 (AUROC = 0.97). The spleen stiffness cutoff value was 2.72 m/s for stage 4 (AUROC = 0.96). Liver stiffness was not correlated with the varix grade, whereas a significant linear correlation (Spearman \u03c1 = 0.65; P < .001) between spleen stiffness and the varix grade was found. The optimal spleen stiffness cutoff value for predicting varices was 3.16 m/s (AUROC = 0.83). Liver and spleen stiffness values measured by ARFI elastography are reliable predictors of liver fibrosis. Spleen stiffness measured by ARFI can be used as a non-invasive method for determining the presence and severity of esophageal varices; however, evidence to support a similar role for liver stiffness is lacking."}
{"id": "22796373", "title": "Comparison of LecT-Hepa and FibroScan for assessment of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B virus infected patients with different ALT levels.", "content": "Comparison of LecT-Hepa and FibroScan for assessment of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B virus infected patients with different ALT levels. FibroScan is one of the noninvasive techniques based on the transient elastography that can assess the progression of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis patients in daily clinical practice. Recently, LecT-Hepa was validated as a serological glycomarker correlating well with the fibrosis stage determined by liver biopsy, and was superior to many other noninvasive biochemical markers and tests. We compared the reliability of LecT-Hepa with that of FibroScan for evaluation of liver fibrosis. The effects of increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities on LecT-Hepa and FibroScan were investigated. The areas under the receiver-operating characteristic curves, sensitivity and specificity for detecting cirrhosis, which is one of the outcomes of fibrosis estimation, were 0.82, 72.5% and 78.2% of LecT-Hepa, 0.85, 87.0% and 74.1% of FibroScan; these did not differ significantly. The count distribution of LecT-Hepa in non-cirrhosis group or cirrhosis group did not differ between the patients grouped according to their ALT levels, whereas that of FibroScan was substantially affected. LecT-Hepa was confirmed as a reliable noninvasive test for the evaluation of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B virus-infected patients with comparable performance to that of FibroScan and proved to be unaffected by inflammation."}
{"id": "22788929", "title": "Efficacy of transient elastography in screening for large esophageal varices in patients with suspicious or proven liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Efficacy of transient elastography in screening for large esophageal varices in patients with suspicious or proven liver cirrhosis. To evaluate the liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography (TE) to predict the risk of esophageal varices (EVs) in Chinese patients. In total, 46 patients with suspicious or proven liver cirrhosis underwent TE and liver biopsy. All participants were endoscopically screened for the presence of EVs and large EVs by two endoscopists who were blinded to the LSM status. Large EVs were defined as more than 5\u2003mm in diameter. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for both TE and the platelet count/spleen diameter (PC/SD) ratio in predicting the presence of EVs or large EVs were calculated. Of the 46 patients, 30 (65%) had EVs including 19 (41%) with large EVs. The area under the ROC curve (AUROC) of LSM was 0.85 for the presence of EVs and 0.83 for large EVs, respectively. The cut-off values of LSM were \u226513.4\u2003kPa for the presence of EVs and \u226514.6 kPa for large EVs. Notably, the AUROC of the PC/SD ratio was 0.92 for the presence of EVs but only 0.69 for large EVs. LSM using TE can predict the presence of EVs or large EVs in Chinese patients with suspicious or proven cirrhosis and may identify patients who require endoscopic surveillance."}
{"id": "22733889", "title": "Performance of real-time strain elastography, transient elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index in the assessment of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Performance of real-time strain elastography, transient elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index in the assessment of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of transient elastography, real-time strain elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index in assessing fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C by using histologic Metavir scores as reference standard. Consecutive patients with chronic hepatitis C scheduled for liver biopsy were enrolled. Liver biopsy was performed on the same day as transient elastography and real-time strain elastography. Transient elastography and real-time strain elastography were performed in the same patient encounter by a single investigator using a medical device based on elastometry and an ultrasound machine, respectively. Diagnostic performance was assessed by using receiver operating characteristic curves and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) analysis. One hundred thirty patients (91 men and 39 women) were analyzed. The cutoff values for transient elastography, real-time strain elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index were 6.9 kPa, 1.82, and 0.37, respectively, for fibrosis score of 2 or higher; 7.3 kPa, 1.86, and 0.70, respectively, for fibrosis score of 3 or higher; and 9.3 kPa, 2.33, and 0.70, respectively, for fibrosis score of 4. AUC values of transient elastography, real-time strain elastography, aspartate-to-platelet ratio index were 0.88, 0.74, and 0.86, respectively, for fibrosis score of 2 or higher; 0.95, 0.80, and 0.89, respectively, for fibrosis score of 3 or higher; and 0.97, 0.80, and 0.84, respectively, for fibrosis score of 4. A combination of the three methods, when two of three were in agreement, showed AUC curves of 0.93, 0.95, and 0.95 for fibrosis scores of 2 or higher, 3 or higher, and 4, respectively. Transient elastography, real-time strain elastography, and aspartate-to-platelet ratio index values were correlated with histologic stages of fibrosis. Transient elastography offered excellent diagnostic performance in assessing severe fibrosis and cirrhosis. Real-time elastography does not yet have the potential to substitute for transient elastography in the assessment of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22733854", "title": "Real-time elastography for diagnosis of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Real-time elastography for diagnosis of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B. The purpose of this study was to prospectively investigate the value of real-time ultrasound elastography for diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B and to correlate the elastographic findings with histologic stages of liver fibrosis and blood parameters. Liver biopsies, blood testing, and real-time elastography were performed in 71 patients with chronic viral hepatitis B and liver cirrhosis. The ratio of the elastic strain of liver tissue to that of muscle tissue was determined and correlated with the histologic fibrosis stages and laboratory examination results. There was a highly negative correlation between the elastic strain ratio and the histologic fibrosis stage (Spearman r = -0.702; P < .001). There was a high correlation observed between a decreasing elastic strain ratio and an increasing fibrosis stage. With substantial liver fibrosis (Scheuer score \u2265 S2) and cirrhosis (S4) as diagnostic criteria, the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs) of the elastic strain ratios were 0.863 and 0.797, respectively. The AUC for substantial fibrosis was higher than the AUC for the blood parameters used to diagnose substantial liver fibrosis. Elastic strain ratio cutoff values of 1.10 and 0.60 were identified as diagnostic of substantial fibrosis and cirrhosis, respectively, with sensitivities of 77.8% and 50.0%, respectively, and specificities of 80.0% and 96.7%. Real-time elastography is a new clinically promising and noninvasive method for quantitative assessment of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22700624", "title": "Noninvasive markers of fibrosis: key concepts for improving accuracy in daily clinical practice.", "content": "Noninvasive markers of fibrosis: key concepts for improving accuracy in daily clinical practice. Noninvasive markers of fibrosis have emerged as an alternative to the staging of fibrosis by means of liver biopsy. Apart from being noninvasive and thus lacking the adverse effects of liver biopsy, they offer some advantages such as reduced risk of sampling error, objectiveness in the interpretation of the result, appropriateness for repeated measurements and lower cost. Many studies have validated different panels of blood markers and imaging/transient elastography for the estimation of fibrosis with acceptable accuracy. Clinical scenarios leading to inacurate or failed estimation must be acknowledged, as well as the fact that performance of blood markers and transient elastography, and their diagnostic cut-off values vary among specific liver diseases. The combination of two blood markers or of a blood marker and transient elastography has been shown to increase accuracy of the estimation. Further, unlike liver biopsy the noninvasive markers of fibrosis are not associated with a ceiling effect after cirrhosis is identified, but can discriminate early from advanced stages of cirrhosis. Longitudinal studies have shown their utility as predictors of complications from portal hypertension and mortality, outperforming liver biopsy. In conclusion, noninvasive markers of fibrosis provide major advantages over liver biopsy. The reported performance of some of the available tests particularly when used in combination make them a reliable tool, very attractive for daily clinical practice."}
{"id": "22699260", "title": "Noninvasive screening for liver fibrosis and portal hypertension by transient elastography--a large single center experience.", "content": "Noninvasive screening for liver fibrosis and portal hypertension by transient elastography--a large single center experience. Transient elastography (TE) is a noninvasive tool to assess hepatic fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness (LS). Recent studies suggest that TE may be used to screen for liver cirrhosis and clinically significant portal hypertension (\u2265 10 mmHg; CSPH), whereas data on the clinical applicability of TE are limited. Among 695 patients undergoing measurement of LS, data on liver biopsies and on hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) were available in 290 and 502 patients, respectively. Analysis of the area under the receiver operating curve (AUC) was used to assess the positive (PPV) and negative predictive (NPV) values of LS cut-offs for staging of hepatic fibrosis and for diagnosis of CSPH. LS was significantly associated with fibrosis stage (R = 0.872;p < 0.0001). AUC for diagnosis of fibrosis F2 (> 7.2 kPa) was 0.690, 0.737 for F3 (> 9.6 kPa), and 0.904 for F4 (> 12.1 kPa), respectively. At a LS cut-off of 12.1 kPa the PPV and NPV for diagnosis of cirrhosis were 87 and 91 %, respectively. A significant correlation of LS and HVPG was noted (R = 0.794;p < 0.0001), being stronger in patients with viral disease (R = 0.838;p < 0.0001) than in patients with alcoholic disease (R = 0.756;p < 0.0001). The LS cut-off at 18 kPa can identify CSPH with a PPV and NPV of 86 and 80 %, respectively. This large single center study confirms the clinical utility of TE as valuable noninvasive screening tool for liver fibrosis with excellent accuracy to rule out F4 cirrhosis. However, the moderate PPV and NPV limit the diagnostic use of TE for discriminating patients with and without CSPH."}
{"id": "22698510", "title": "Comparative study concerning the value of acoustic radiation force impulse elastography (ARFI) in comparison with transient elastography (TE) for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C.", "content": "Comparative study concerning the value of acoustic radiation force impulse elastography (ARFI) in comparison with transient elastography (TE) for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C. Our aim was to compare liver stiffness (LS) measurements by means of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography and transient elastography (TE) in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C, according to the severity of fibrosis. We also compared the correlation strength of ARFI and TE measurements with liver fibrosis. We included 53 patients with hepatitis B and 107 with hepatitis C in which liver biopsy, ARFI and TE measurements were performed in the same session. The mean LS values measured with ARFI were similar in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C and depended on the stage of fibrosis. The correlation strength of LS measurements by ARFI and by TE with fibrosis was similar in chronic hepatitis B and C patients. In conclusion, for the same stage of fibrosis, the mean LS values by ARFI were similar in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C. ARFI had similar predictive value with TE in both chronic viral hepatitis."}
{"id": "22672642", "title": "Non-invasive diagnosis of liver steatosis using controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) and transient elastography.", "content": "Non-invasive diagnosis of liver steatosis using controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) and transient elastography. Recently, a study showed that Controlled Attenuation Parameter (CAP), evaluated with transient elastography, could efficiently separate steatosis grades. The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the performance of CAP for the diagnosis of steatosis in patients with chronic liver disease. Consecutive patients with chronic liver disease had steatosis diagnosis using CAP, blood sample and liver biopsy. Steatosis was graded as the percentage of hepatocytes with fat: S0 \u2264 10%, S1: 11 ~ 33%, S2: 34 ~ 66%, S3 \u2265 67%. Characteristics of the 112 patients included were as follows: age 54 years, BMI 26 kg m(-) \u00b2, HCV 36%, NAFLD 25%. Steatosis repartition was: S0 52%, S1 19%, S2 14%, S3 15%. CAP was significantly correlated with SteatoTest, Fatty Liver Index (FLI), percentage of steatosis on liver biopsy, steatosis grade and slightly with liver stiffness, but not with fibrosis and activity grade on liver biopsy. Using CAP vs SteatoTest vs FLI score, Area Under the Receiver-Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves (AUROC)s were 0.84 vs 0.72 vs 0.72 for the diagnosis of steatosis \u2265 S1, 0.86 vs 0.73 vs 0.71 for the diagnosis of steatosis \u2265 S2, and 0.93 vs 0.73 vs 0.75 for the diagnosis of steatosis S3 respectively. For a sensitivity \u2265 90%, cut-offs of CAP were 215 dB m(-1) for S \u2265 1, 252 dB m(-1) for S \u2265 2, and 296 dB m(-1) for S3. CAP is very efficient to detect even low grade steatosis. CAP being implemented on FibroScan(\u00ae) (Echosens, Paris, France), both steatosis and fibrosis can be evaluated simultaneously, enlarging the spectrum of non-invasive techniques for the management of chronic liver diseases."}
{"id": "22671952", "title": "CD4\u207a and CD8\u207a regulatory T cells (Tregs) are elevated and display an active phenotype in patients with chronic HCV mono-infection and HIV/HCV co-infection.", "content": "CD4\u207a and CD8\u207a regulatory T cells (Tregs) are elevated and display an active phenotype in patients with chronic HCV mono-infection and HIV/HCV co-infection. The aim of this study was to examine regulatory T cells (Tregs) in peripheral blood and liver tissue in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) mono-infection and in patients with HIV/HCV co-infection. In a cross-sectional study were included 51 patients with chronic HCV infection, 24 patients with HIV/HCV co-infection and 24 healthy individuals. CD4\u207a and CD8\u207a Tregs were determined using flow cytometry. Fibrosis was examined by transient elastography. Inflammation, fibrosis and Tregs were determined in liver biopsies from 12 patients. Increased frequency of CD4\u207a and CD8\u207a Tregs was found in HIV/HCV co-infected patients [median: 6.4% (IQR: 5.7-6.9) and 1.0% (0.7-1.2), respectively] compared to HCV mono-infected patients [5.6% (4.2-6.3), P = 0.01 and 0.5% (0.3-0.7), P < 0.001, respectively]. Furthermore, HCV mono-infected patients had increased frequencies of Tregs compared with healthy controls (P < 0.05). However, no associations between the frequency of Tregs and fibrosis were found. Furthermore, characterization of CD4\u207a Tregs using CD45RA demonstrated a higher frequency of activated Tregs in both HCV mono-infected and HIV/HCV co-infected patients compared with healthy controls. Finally, number of intrahepatic Tregs was associated with both peripheral CD8\u207a Tregs and intrahepatic inflammation. In conclusion, HCV mono-infected patients and particularly HIV/HCV co-infected patients have increased the frequency of CD4\u207a and CD8\u207a Tregs compared with healthy controls. Furthermore, CD4\u207a Tregs in infected patients displayed an active phenotype. Tregs were not associated with fibrosis, but a positive correlation between intrahepatic Tregs and inflammation was found. Taken together, these results suggest a role for Tregs in the pathogenesis of chronic HCV infection."}
{"id": "22643348", "title": "Measurement of spleen stiffness to evaluate portal hypertension and the presence of esophageal varices in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis.", "content": "Measurement of spleen stiffness to evaluate portal hypertension and the presence of esophageal varices in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis. The hepatic vein pressure gradient (HVPG) is the standard used to determine the degree of portal hypertension (PH) and an important prognostic factor for patients with cirrhosis; HVPG values correlate with the presence of esophageal varices (EV). However, HVPG can only be accurately determined at specialized centers; noninvasive methods are needed to predict HVPG values and the presence of EV. We compared the diagnostic performance of spleen stiffness (SS) measurement by transient elastography with that of liver stiffness (LS) and of other recently proposed noninvasive tests. We measured SS and LS in 100 consecutive patients with hepatitis C virus-induced cirrhosis. Patients were also assessed by FibroScan, HVPG, esophagogastroduodenoscopy, and liver biopsy. We also analyzed LS-spleen diameter to platelet ratio score and platelet count to spleen diameter. SS and LS were more accurate than other noninvasive parameters in identifying patients with EV and different degrees of PH. A linear model that included SS and LS accurately predicted HVPG values (R(2) = 0.85). The results were internally validated using bootstrap analysis. Measurement of SS can be used for noninvasive assessment and monitoring of PH and to detect EV in patients with hepatitis C virus-induced cirrhosis."}
{"id": "22617153", "title": "The Laennec staging system for histological sub-classification of cirrhosis is useful for stratification of prognosis in patients with liver cirrhosis.", "content": "The Laennec staging system for histological sub-classification of cirrhosis is useful for stratification of prognosis in patients with liver cirrhosis. The clinical severity of cirrhosis varies widely. We investigated whether histological sub-classification of cirrhosis using the Laennec system can discriminate different outcomes among patients with cirrhosis. One hundred and seventy-five patients with chronic liver disease who underwent liver biopsy and showed stage 3 or 4 fibrosis between January 2001 and December 2008 were prospectively enrolled. Cirrhosis was sub-classified into three groups (4A, 4B, and 4C) according to the Laennec system. The end point was liver-related event (LRE) occurrence, including decompensation, hepatocellular carcinoma, and liver-related death. The median age of the patients (110 men, 65 women) was 55 years. Stages 3, 4A, 4B, and 4C were identified in 46 (26.3%), 16 (9.1%), 82 (46.9%), and 31 (17.7%) patients, respectively. During the follow-up period, LREs occurred in 32 (18.3%) patients: 4 (8.7%) with stage 3, 2 (12.5%) with stage 4A, 17 (20.7%) with stage 4B, and 9 (29.0%) with stage 4C. In a multivariate analysis, histological sub-classification of cirrhosis independently predicted LRE occurrence. While patients with stage 4A tended to be at higher risk of LRE occurrence than those with stage 3, patients with stages 4B and 4C had significantly higher risks of LRE occurrence, with hazard ratios of 6.158 (p=0.016) and 8.945 (p=0.004), respectively. Histological sub-classification of cirrhosis using the Laennec system can be used to assess the risk of LRE occurrence among patients with cirrhosis. Our study provides a solid basis for further studies of non-invasive methods for monitoring the risk of LRE occurrence and will help physicians to establish optimum treatment strategies."}
{"id": "22609320", "title": "Elastographic assessment of liver fibrosis in children: A prospective single center experience.", "content": "Elastographic assessment of liver fibrosis in children: A prospective single center experience. The assessment of liver damage in various disease states relies on a combination of clinical findings, biochemical parameters and invasive tests such as liver biopsy. The ultrasound elastography has emerged as a potential alternative test, providing quantifiable information on the elasticity/stiffness of the examined-tissues. We assessed the performance of ultrasound elastography using real-time Acoustic Radiation Force Imaging (ARFI) technology in evaluating the degree of liver fibrosis in children with and without liver disease. Children aged 0-18 years, hospitalized in the Emergency Clinical County Hospital Tg. Mures, Romania, between September 15, 2010 and January 15, 2011, were eligible for the study. Four groups were recruited as follow: patients with liver disease in the setting of various malignant disorders, children with non-malignant liver disease, overweight and obese children and healthy controls. The liver tissue elasticity was assessed in each individual using Shear Wave Velocity (SWV). Biochemical tests included transaminase levels. 19 children with chronic liver disease underwent biopsies. SWV was measured globally and separately for the liver-segments 1 and 8. Correlations between the SWV and laboratory test were established using non-parametric Spearman correlation test. A total of 103 children underwent liver ultrasound elastographic assessments. Of these, 39 had malignancies, 19 had various chronic liver diseases, 13 had nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and 32 were healthy controls. The transaminase values differed significantly between children with liver diseases and controls. In normal controls SWV values in the 1st segment were significantly lower compared to those in the in 8th segment of the liver (p=0.0216). In the group with hepatic steatosis, the SWV values were statistically higher compared to those in healthy controls. Positive statistical correlations have been established between AST and SWV in the group of children with NAFLD and those with malignancies (p=0.0032, p=0.0045). Quantification of liver fibrosis by ARFI method correlates with the histological fibrosis stage in children with chronic liver disease and NAFLD. Clinical applications of this method in the diagnosis of pediatric liver disease deserve further study."}
{"id": "22609297", "title": "Hepatic fibrosis in paediatric liver disease.", "content": "Hepatic fibrosis in paediatric liver disease. Liver fibrosis is the common endpoint of chronic liver disease of variable aetiology. Liver injury induces excess deposition of extracellular matrix via inflammatory pathways, which in turn results in distortion of the vascular liver architecture. The two features combine to cause portal hypertension and reduced hepatocellular function. Diagnosis of liver fibrosis is made by liver biopsy, but non invasive tests like serological markers or elastographic methods are increasingly being recognized as useful tools in the diagnosis of fibrosis. Treatment options that exceed the treatment of the underlying liver disease are still largely experimental."}
{"id": "22574212", "title": "Prediction of liver-related events using fibroscan in chronic hepatitis B patients showing advanced liver fibrosis.", "content": "Prediction of liver-related events using fibroscan in chronic hepatitis B patients showing advanced liver fibrosis. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography (FibroScan\u00ae) can assess liver fibrosis noninvasively. This study investigated whether LSM can predict the development of liver-related events (LREs) in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients showing histologically advanced liver fibrosis. Between March 2006 and April 2010, 128 CHB patients with who underwent LSM and liver biopsy (LB) before starting nucleot(s)ide analogues and showed histologically advanced fibrosis (\u2265F3) with a high viral loads [HBV DNA \u22652,000 IU/mL] were enrolled. All patients were followed regularly to detect LRE development, including hepatic decompensation (variceal bleeding, ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, hepatorenal syndrome) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The mean age of the patient (72 men, 56 women) was 52.2 years. During the median follow-up period [median 27.8 (12.6-61.6) months], LREs developed in 19 (14.8%) patients (five with hepatic decompensation, 13 with HCC, one with both). Together with age, multivariate analysis identified LSM as an independent predictor of LRE development [P<0.044; hazard ratio (HR), 1.038; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.002-1.081]. When the study population was stratified into two groups using the optimal cutoff value (19 kPa), which maximized the sum of sensitivity (61.1%) and specificity (86.2%) from a time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve, patients with LSM>19 kPa were at significantly greater risk than those with LSM\u226419 kPa for LRE development (HR, 7.176; 95% CI, 2.257-22.812; P\u200a=\u200a0.001). LSM can be a useful predictor of LRE development in CHB patients showing histologically advanced liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22560536", "title": "Diagnosing and monitoring cirrhosis: Liver biopsy, hepatic venous pressure gradient and elastography.", "content": "Diagnosing and monitoring cirrhosis: Liver biopsy, hepatic venous pressure gradient and elastography. In this review we summarize the role of liver biopsy, transient elastography and hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) in the diagnosis and monitoring of patients with liver cirrhosis. Transient elastography is useful for the non-invasive diagnosis of cirrhosis, but relevant information is lost if it is used as a dichotomous test. The development of clinically significant portal hypertension (defined as a hepatic venous pressure gradient \u2265 10 mmHg) is associated with the development of varices and decompensation and it is something that it is worth testing for. Transient elastography has some value for the prediction of clinically significant portal hypertension, but a large proportion of patients have non-diagnostic values. It has also some value for the diagnosis of varices, but non-invasive markers cannot substitute endoscopic screening in cirrhosis. Better dynamic, easily repeatable non-invasive tools are needed to monitor compensated cirrhosis."}
{"id": "22537436", "title": "Noninvasive methods to assess liver disease in patients with hepatitis B or C.", "content": "Noninvasive methods to assess liver disease in patients with hepatitis B or C. The prognosis and management of patients with chronic viral hepatitis B and C depend on the amount and progression of liver fibrosis and the risk for cirrhosis. Liver biopsy, traditionally considered to be the reference standard for staging of fibrosis, has been challenged over the past decade by the development of noninvasive methodologies. These methods rely on distinct but complementary approaches: a biologic approach, which quantifies serum levels of biomarkers of fibrosis, and a physical approach, which measures liver stiffness by ultrasound or magnetic resonance elastography. Noninvasive methods were initially studied and validated in patients with chronic hepatitis C but are now used increasingly for patients with hepatitis B, reducing the need for liver biopsy analysis. We review the advantages and limitations of the noninvasive methods used to manage patients with chronic viral hepatitis B or C infection."}
{"id": "22536445", "title": "Prospective validation of FibroTest in comparison with liver stiffness for predicting liver fibrosis in Asian subjects with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Prospective validation of FibroTest in comparison with liver stiffness for predicting liver fibrosis in Asian subjects with chronic hepatitis B. Diagnostic values of FibroTest (FT) for hepatic fibrosis have rarely been assessed in Asian chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients. We aimed to validate its diagnostic performances in comparison with liver stiffness (LS). From 2008 to 2010, 194 CHB patients who underwent liver biopsies along with FT and transient elastography were prospectively enrolled. Fibrosis stage was assessed according to the Batts and Ludwig system. To predict significant fibrosis (F\u22652), advanced fibrosis (F\u22653), and cirrhosis (F\u200a=\u200a4), areas under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs) of FT were 0.903, 0.907, and 0.866, comparable to those of LS (0.873, 0.897, and 0.910, respectively). Optimized cutoffs of FT to maximize sum of sensitivity and specificity were 0.32, 0.52, and 0.68 for F\u22652, F\u22653, and F\u200a=\u200a4, while those of LS were 8.8, 10.2, and 14.1 kPa, respectively. According to FT and LS cutoffs, 123 (63.4%) and 124 (63.9%) patients were correctly classified consistent with histological fibrosis (F1, F2, F3, and F4), respectively. Overall concordance between each fibrosis stage estimated by FT and LS was observed in 111 patients, where 88 were correctly classified with histological results. A combination formula adding LS to FT (LS+FT) showed similar AUROC levels (0.885, 0.905, and 0.915), while another multiplying LS by FT (LS\u00d7FT) showed the best AUROCs (0.941, 0.931, and 0.929 for F\u22652, F\u22653, and F4, respectively). FT provides good fibrosis prediction, with comparable outcomes to LS in Asian CHB patients. FT substantially reduces need for liver biopsy, especially when used in combination with LS."}
{"id": "22521355", "title": "ARFI, FibroScan, ELF, and their combinations in the assessment of liver fibrosis: a prospective study.", "content": "ARFI, FibroScan, ELF, and their combinations in the assessment of liver fibrosis: a prospective study. Our aim was to evaluate a serologic marker (ELF) and two ultrasound-based methods (FibroScan and ARFI), as well as their combinations, in the assessment of liver fibrosis. One-hundred and forty-six patients (87 liver transplant recipients, 59 non-transplant patients) who underwent liver biopsy were prospectively included. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of FibroScan, ARFI, ELF and the combination of ELF with either ARFI or FibroScan. After analyzing in separate transplant and non-transplant patients, the whole cohort was divided into a training set and a validation set. ARFI imaging was successfully performed across the whole cohort, while FibroScan failed in 16 (11%) patients. The three methods showed similar AUROCs and best cut-off values in transplant and non-transplant patients. In the training set, differences between the AUROCs of ARFI, FibroScan and ELF to diagnose F\u2a7e2 (0.879, 0.861, and 0.764, respectively) and cirrhosis (0.936, 0.918, and 0.841) were not statistically significant, although both ultrasound-based methods showed higher accuracy than ELF. The combination of ELF with ARFI or FibroScan increased the negative and positive predictive values of single tests for the diagnosis of F \u2265 2 and cirrhosis. Similar results were obtained when the methods were tested in the validation set. ARFI is as effective as either FibroScan or ELF in the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis, and its inclusion in an ultrasound device could facilitate its incorporation into routine clinical practice. The combination of ARFI or FibroScan with ELF may help better identify patients with or without significant fibrosis or cirrhosis."}
{"id": "22519948", "title": "A prospective evaluation of the role of transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis in type 2 diabetes without overt liver disease.", "content": "A prospective evaluation of the role of transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis in type 2 diabetes without overt liver disease. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a major risk factor for the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and subsequently hepatic fibrosis. Transient elastography (TE) is a rapid, reproducible non-invasive test that may be appropriate as a screening tool for the presence of hepatic fibrosis. Assess the utility of TE as a screening tool for the presence of hepatic fibrosis in a T2DM population with no known liver disease. T2DM patients without known liver disease were included. Patients were assessed with TE in addition to biochemical parameters. A successful TE evaluation could be obtained in 74 of 81 (91%) included subjects. Of these, 26 (35%) had a liver stiffness measurement (LSM) \u2265 7.65 kPa. Sixteen of these subjects had confirmatory liver biopsies with significant (\u2265 F2 fibrosis) present in 12 (75%) and cirrhosis diagnosed in 2 subjects. 15/16 (94%) had histological steatohepatitis. Compared with those with a lower LSM, subjects with an LSM \u2265 7.65 kPa had higher ALT levels (38.0 \u00b1 21.7 vs 26.1 \u00b1 11.1 U/L, p = 0.021) and increased prevalence of hepatic steatosis by ultrasound (85% vs 63%, p = 0.005). Significant hepatic fibrosis in the T2DM population is frequently under-recognized. TE may be a feasible tool for the screening of T2DM patients for the presence of hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "22512436", "title": "Transient elastography in patients with celiac disease: a noninvasive method to detect liver involvement associated with celiac disease.", "content": "Transient elastography in patients with celiac disease: a noninvasive method to detect liver involvement associated with celiac disease. Liver involvement in celiac disease (CD) is clinically relevant and could require specific treatment in addition to gluten-free diet (GFD). Transient elastography (TE), a noninvasive tool for assessing liver stiffness (LS), has widely been reported as an accurate surrogate marker of liver fibrosis. To prospectively identify celiac patients with liver involvement by TE and to assess the effect of GFD. Ninety-five histologically confirmed CD patients (24 newly diagnosed) were consecutively evaluated by TE and compared with 146 patients with chronic hepatitis C (HCV) and 54 healthy subjects. LS ranged between 2.8 and 6.7 kPa (median 4.9) in healthy subjects, defining 6.9 kPa as the upper reference limit (2 SD above the mean levels). TE was above 6.9 kPa in 10 (10.5%) CD patients. Median TE values resulted significantly higher in CD patients with hypertransaminasemia than those without [6.1 vs. 4.2 kPa (p < 0.01)]. Among the 24 newly diagnosed patients with CD, median TE values declined from 4.4 to 4 kPa, after 6 months of GFD, resulting below 6.9 kPa in 100% of the patients. A subset of CD patients with hypertransaminasemia showed liver involvement by TE. Accordingly, based on its accuracy in predicting liver fibrosis, TE could be used to identify those CD patients suitable for liver biopsy."}
{"id": "22503893", "title": "MR elastography in renal transplant patients and correlation with renal allograft biopsy: a feasibility study.", "content": "MR elastography in renal transplant patients and correlation with renal allograft biopsy: a feasibility study. Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) images the propagation of mechanical shear waves in tissue and uses that information to generate quantitative measures of tissue stiffness. Hepatic MRE has been successfully performed in thousands of patients, with good correlation between histologic grade of fibrosis and tissue stiffness. There has been no prior investigation of the utility of MRE for the assessment of kidney transplants. The aims of this study were to prospectively evaluate the feasibility of MRE in a small group of kidney transplant recipients and to correlate the measured magnetic resonance elastographic stiffness values with biopsy-proven histopathologic fibrosis. MRE of renal transplants was performed in 11 patients returning for protocol allograft biopsies. Calculated tissue stiffness values were compared to histologic degree of fibrosis in nine of the 11 patients. The mean stiffness of two patients with moderate interstitial fibrosis was higher than the mean of six patients with mild interstitial fibrosis, but not significantly so (90 Hz, P = .12; 120 Hz, P = .17; 150 Hz, P = .26). The mean stiffness of the two patients with moderate interstitial fibrosis was slightly greater than the mean of one patient with no significant interstitial fibrosis at 90 Hz (P = .78) and slightly less at 120 and 150 Hz (P = .88 and P = .76). The mean stiffness of the six patients with mild interstitial fibrosis did not differ significantly from that of the one patient with no interstitial fibrosis (90 Hz, P = .35; 120 Hz, P = .22; 150 Hz, P = .16). Preliminary results demonstrate feasibility and support known multifactorial influences on renal stiffness."}
{"id": "22497527", "title": "Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV mono-infected patients.", "content": "Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV mono-infected patients. Unexplained liver injury including fibrosis and portal hypertension has rarely been reported among patients with HIV in the absence of co-infection with hepatitis B (HBV) or hepatitis C (HCV). We describe a series of HIV mono-infected patients with evidence of non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. HIV-infected patients with evidence of portal hypertension who were anti-HBV and anti-HCV negative and HBV and HCV RNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) negative were identified from patients managed by the Victorian statewide HIV referral service located at The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne. Portal hypertension was defined as either radiological or endoscopic evidence of varices, portal vein flow obstruction, or elevated hepatic venous pressure gradient (HPVG). Five patients were found to have portal hypertension. These patients were male, aged 41 to 65\u2003years, with known duration of HIV infection between 11 to 25\u2003years. All had been treated with antiretroviral therapy, including didanosine. Tests for metabolic, autoimmune, and hereditary causes of liver disease failed to establish an etiology for the liver injury. All had radiological or endoscopic findings of varices, and four patients had radiological features of portal vein obstruction or flow reversal. Only one patient underwent HPVG measurement, which was elevated. Non-invasive fibrosis assessment revealed increased liver stiffness in three (out of four) patients, and no cirrhotic features were found on those who underwent liver biopsy. To our knowledge, this is the largest published series of non-cirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV mono-infected patients in Australia. Further research is needed to understand what relationship, if any, HIV or its treatments might have on liver injury over time."}
{"id": "22488634", "title": "Doppler ultrasound of hepatic blood flow for noninvasive evaluation of liver fibrosis compared with liver biopsy and transient elastography.", "content": "Doppler ultrasound of hepatic blood flow for noninvasive evaluation of liver fibrosis compared with liver biopsy and transient elastography. Accurate quantification of liver fibrosis is essential for therapeutic decision-making and follow-up of chronic liver diseases. To optimize the quality of non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatopathy we compared Doppler ultrasound with liver histology and transient elastography (TE). In this prospective observational study, we performed Doppler ultrasound of hepatic blood vessels as well as TE in 125 patients who underwent liver biopsy for diagnostic work-up of hepatopathy. Hepatic venous flow was evaluated by determining resistance index (HVRI) of the right hepatic vein. Doppler and TE results were compared with histological staging, grading and degree of steatosis obtained by liver biopsy. HVRI showed a high reliability in predicting fibrosis stage FII or higher (AUROC 93.7 %, HVRI < 1.185; sensitivity 89.66 % and specificity 86.32 %) and was superior to TE. Neither steatosis nor inflammation had significant influence on HVRI-based estimation of fibrosis (1.45 \u00b1 0.2; 1.26 \u00b1 0.05; 1.06 \u00b1 0.06; 0.87 \u00b1 0.08; 0.46 \u00b1 0.11 for F0-FIV, respectively). HVRI differed significantly in different stages of fibrosis. In contrast, portal vein and hepatic artery only showed significant changes in higher stages of fibrosis. Hepatic artery resistance index was elevated (0.67-0.74; p < 0.05); portal vein flow maximum and undulation were significantly reduced in higher fibrosis (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). Hepatic blood flow analysis, especially HVRI, provides useful information during assessment of hepatopathy and is a reliable predictor of liver fibrosis stage FII or higher as part of the non-invasive diagnostic work-up and follow-up in chronic liver disease."}
{"id": "22469726", "title": "The usefulness of measuring liver stiffness by transient elastography for assessing hepatic fibrosis in patients with various chronic liver diseases.", "content": "The usefulness of measuring liver stiffness by transient elastography for assessing hepatic fibrosis in patients with various chronic liver diseases. The degree of hepatic fibrosis is an important factor for prognosis and management of patients with chronic liver disease; however, liver biopsy is an invasive method of measuring fibrosis. Here, we investigated the diagnostic utility of liver stiffness, as measured by transient elastography in assessing hepatic fibrosis of viral chronic liver disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Four hundred and nine eligible patients underwent transient elastography to measure liver stiffness. Liver biopsy for histopathological assessment of fibrosis (F0-F4) was performed in 71 of these patients. Serum levels of hyaluronic acid were determined in 110 patients. We assessed liver stiffness in several chronic liver diseases and compared correlations among liver stiffness, hepatic fibrosis stage and serum hyaluronic acid levels. A steady stepwise increase in liver stiffness was observed with progressing severity of hepatic fibrosis (p<0.0001) in 71 patients who underwent liver biopsy. In 32 chronic viral hepatitis patients, measuring liver stiffness was useful for differentiating between F1, or F2, or F3 and F4, while in 32 NAFLD liver stiffness can differentiate between F0 and F1, F2, or F3, F1 and F3 or F4 and F2 and F4. There was no significant correlation between liver fibrotic stages and serum hyaluronic levels. The present data advocates measuring liver stiffness for assessing hepatic fibrosis is more sensitive in NAFLD than viral chronic diseases, and liver stiffness is useful compared to serum hyaluronic acid level in estimating hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "22432836", "title": "Assessment of inflammation and fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by imaging-based techniques.", "content": "Assessment of inflammation and fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by imaging-based techniques. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NALFD) is a burgeoning global health problem, and the assessment of disease severity remains a clinical challenge. Conventional imaging and clinical blood tests are frequently unable to determine disease activity (the degree of inflammatory change) and fibrotic severity, while the applicability of histological examination of liver biopsy is limited. Imaging platforms provide liver-specific structural information, while newer applications of these technologies non-invasively exploit the physical and chemical characteristics of liver tissue in health and disease. In this review, conventional and newer imaging-based techniques for the assessment of inflammation and fibrosis in NAFLD are discussed in terms of diagnostic accuracy, radio-pathological correlations, and practical considerations. In particular, recent clinical studies of ultrasound (US)-based and magnetic resonance elastography techniques are evaluated, while the potential of contrast-enhanced US and magnetic resonance spectroscopy techniques is discussed. The development and application of these techniques is starting to reduce the clinical need for liver biopsy, to produce surrogate end-points for interventional and observational clinical studies, and through this, to provide new insights into the natural history of NAFLD."}
{"id": "22416182", "title": "Evaluation of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging for determination of liver stiffness using transient elastography as a reference.", "content": "Evaluation of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging for determination of liver stiffness using transient elastography as a reference. To evaluate cut-off values and performance of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) using transient elastography [FibroScan\u00a9 (FS)] as a reference. Six hundred and six patients were enrolled in this study. All patients underwent liver stiffness measurement with FS (FS-LS) and ARFI (with shear wave velocity quantification; ARFI-SWV) and the performance of ARFI in comparison to FS was determined. Sixty-eight patients underwent liver biopsy. Significantly higher success rates for the determination of liver stiffness were found using ARFI as compared to FS [604/606 (99.7%) vs. 482/606 (79.5%), P < 0.001]. ARFI-SWV correlated significantly with FS-LS (r = 0.920, P < 0.001). ARFI-SWV increased significantly with the stage of fibrosis (1.09 \u00b1 0.13 m/s for patients with no significant fibrosis (FS-LS < 7.6 kPa); 1.46 \u00b1 0.27 m/s for patients with significant liver fibrosis (7.6 < FS-LS \u2264 13.0 kPa); and 2.55 \u00b1 0.77 m/s for patients with liver cirrhosis (FS-LS > 13.0 kPa)). ARFI-SWV cut-off values were identified for no significant fibrosis (1.29 m/s; sensitivity 91.4% and specificity 92.6%) and for liver cirrhosis (1.60 m/s; sensitivity 92.3% and specificity 96.5%). The optimal cut-off value for predicting liver fibrosis (F \u2265 2) was 1.32 m/s (sensitivity 87.0% and specificity 80.0%) and for liver cirrhosis (F4) 1.62 m/s (sensitivity 100% and specificity 85.7%), for patients who underwent liver biopsy. An excellent inter-and intraobserver reproducibility was observed for ARFI-SWV determinations. An ARFI-SWV cut-off value of 1.29 m/s seems to be optimal for patients with no significant liver fibrosis and 1.60 m/s for patients with liver cirrhosis."}
{"id": "22414330", "title": "Larger biopsies evaluation of transient elastography for detecting advanced fibrosis in patients with compensated chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Larger biopsies evaluation of transient elastography for detecting advanced fibrosis in patients with compensated chronic hepatitis B. Although larger biopsies sample had been recommended for the study of non-invasive liver fibrosis assessment, few studies with larger biopsies for transient elastography (TE) detecting liver fibrosis had been reported. The present study tries to re-evaluate the performance of TE for detecting advanced fibrosis (\u2265F3) with larger biopsies in patients with compensated chronic hepatitis B. A total of 375 compensated patients were analyzed, who had undergone liver biopsy, reliable TE and routine blood tests. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was influenced by liver biopsy sample: 0.873 (95% confidence interval 0.838-0.909) in total patients, 0.880 (0.844-0.917) in length \u2265 15 mm, 0.897 (0.863-0.932) in length \u2265 20 mm and 0.911 (0.874-0.949) in length \u2265 25 mm. In patients with sample length \u2265 20 mm, the cutoffs to exclude and confirm advanced fibrosis were 7.1 kPa and 12.7 kPa, respectively. Stratified by alanine aminotransferase of two times the upper limit of normal (ALT 2 \u00d7 ULN), transient elastography detecting advanced fibrosis with the most efficiency by 72.5% of patients obviated from liver biopsy. In patients with normal bilirubin and ALT < 2 \u00d7 ULN, the area was 0.921 (0.860-0.982), and cutoffs for excluding and confirming diagnosis were 7.4 kPa and 10.6 kPa, respectively; 80% of patients could be classified with or without advanced fibrosis (AF). In patients with normal bilirubin and ALT \u2265 2 \u00d7 ULN, the corresponding numbers were 0.885 (0.824-0.947), 7.5 kPa, 12.7 kPa and 79.2%, respectively. Inadequate sample study would underestimate the efficiency of TE on detecting advanced fibrosis. With ALT 2 \u00d7 ULN stratified cutoffs, TE determined nearly 80% of patients with normal bilirubin as AF or non-AF and obviated them from liver biopsies."}
{"id": "22408151", "title": "Development and evaluation of a nurse-led transient elastography service for the staging of hepatic fibrosis in patients with suspected chronic liver disease.", "content": "Development and evaluation of a nurse-led transient elastography service for the staging of hepatic fibrosis in patients with suspected chronic liver disease. Establishing the presence of fibrosis and cirrhosis is an essential step in the management of patients with chronic liver diseases (CLD). Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) based on transient elastography (TE) correlates well with the stages of liver fibrosis and has been developed as a non-invasive alternative to liver biopsy. The studies performed to date have used physician operators. With the potential use of TE for screening of community-based populations for liver disease, we aimed to evaluate the performance of nurse operators. Retrospective analysis. We reviewed the reliability and accuracy of LSMs performed by the nurse-led TE service at Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham between May 2009 and January 2011. Consecutive patients with suspected CLD who underwent LSM were included. Over the study period 585 LSMs were performed. Analysis was performed on the 208 patients where LSM could be compared with liver biopsy findings. Of these 11 (5.3%) had unreliable LSM results (less than 10 valid shots or success rate <60%). There were no LSM failures. Inadequate liver biopsy specimen led to exclusion in 26 (12.5%) patients. For the detection of significant fibrosis (Ishak stage >2), a sensitivity of 0.78 and specificity of 0.81 was obtained, with a cut-off value of 8 kPa. Using a cut-off value of 13 kPa for detection of cirrhosis, a sensitivity and specificity of 0.8 and 0.92 was obtained. We have demonstrated that a nurse-led TE service can produce a low level of unreliable results and LSM failures, with comparable sensitivity and specificity for detecting significant fibrosis and cirrhosis to those reported in the literature. The demands on the use of TE could potentially be eased through the introduction of nurse-led service delivery."}
{"id": "22404722", "title": "Novel controlled attenuation parameter for noninvasive assessment of steatosis using Fibroscan(\u00ae): validation in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Novel controlled attenuation parameter for noninvasive assessment of steatosis using Fibroscan(\u00ae): validation in chronic hepatitis C. A novel controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) has been developed for Fibroscan(\u00ae) to assess liver steatosis, simultaneously with liver stiffness measurement (LSM). We assessed CAP diagnostic accuracy in a large cohort of patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) virus. A total of 615 patients with CHC, who underwent both Fibroscan(\u00ae) and liver biopsy, were analysed. Fibrosis was graded using METAVIR score. Steatosis was categorized by visual assessment as S(0) : steatosis in <10% of hepatocytes, S(1) : 11-33%, S(2) : 34-66% and S(3) : 67-100%. Performances of CAP and liver stiffness were determined using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and cross-validated using the bootstrap method. The Obuchowski measure was used to assess overall accuracy of CAP and to differentiate between steatosis grades. In multivariate analysis, CAP was related to steatosis (P < 10(-15) ) independently of fibrosis stage (which was related to LSM). The areas under ROC curves using CAP to detect steatosis were 0.80 (95% CI, 0.75-0.84) for S \u2265 S(1) , 0.86 (0.81-0.92) for S \u2265 S(2) and 0.88 (0.73-1) S = S(3) . CAP exhibited a good ability to differentiate steatosis grades (Obuchowski measure = 0.92). Performance of LSM for fibrosis assessment confirmed results from previous studies. CAP is a novel tool to assess the degree of steatosis and both fibrosis and steatosis can be evaluated noninvasively during the same procedure using Fibroscan(\u00ae) , in patients with CHC."}
{"id": "22384189", "title": "Discordance between liver biopsy and Fibroscan\u00ae in assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis b: risk factors and influence of necroinflammation.", "content": "Discordance between liver biopsy and Fibroscan\u00ae in assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis b: risk factors and influence of necroinflammation. Few studies have investigated predictors of discordance between liver biopsy (LB) and liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using FibroScan\u00ae. We assessed predictors of discordance between LB and LSM in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and investigated the effects of necroinflammatory activity. In total, 150 patients (107 men, 43 women) were prospectively enrolled. Only LSM with \u2265 10 valid measurements was considered reliable. Liver fibrosis was evaluated using the Laennec system. LB specimens <15 mm in length were considered ineligible. Reference cutoff LSM values to determine discordance were calculated from our cohort (6.0 kPa for \u2265 F2, 7.5 kPa for \u2265 F3, and 9.4 kPa for F4). A discordance, defined as a discordance of at least two stages between LB and LSM, was identified in 21 (14.0%) patients. In multivariate analyses, fibrosis stages F3-4 and F4 showed independent negative associations with discordance (P = 0.002; hazard ratio [HR], 0.073; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.014-0.390 for F3-4 and P = 0.014; HR, 0.067; 95% CI, 0.008-0.574 for F4). LSM values were not significantly different between maximal activity grades 1-2 and 3-4 in F1 and F2 fibrosis stages, whereas LSM values were significantly higher in maximal activity grade 3-4 than 1-2 in F3 and F4 fibrosis stage (median 8.6 vs. 11.3 kPa in F3, P = 0.049; median 11.9 vs. 19.2 kPa in F4, P = 0.009). Advanced fibrosis stage (F3-4) or cirrhosis (F4) showed a negative correlation with discordance between LB and LSM in patients with CHB, and maximal activity grade 3-4 significantly influenced LSM values in F3 and F4."}
{"id": "22370225", "title": "[Hungarian consensus guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of B, C, and D viral hepatitis].", "content": "[Hungarian consensus guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of B, C, and D viral hepatitis]. More than 1% of the Hungarian population is infected with hepatitis B, C, or D viruses. Since 2006 the diagnostics and therapy of these infections are carried out in treatment centers according to national guidelines - since 2010 according to financial protocols. The consensus-based guidelines for 2012 are published in this paper. The guidelines stress the importance of quick and detailed virologic evaluations, the applicability of transient elastography as an acceptable alternative of liver biopsy in this regard, as well as the relevance of appropriate consistent follow up schedule for viral response during therapy. The first choice of therapy in chronic hepatitis B infection is pegylated interferon for 48 weeks or continuous entecavir therapy. The later must be continued for at least 6 months after hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seroconversion. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarat is not yet reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Fund. Adefovir dipivoxil is recommended mainly in combination therapy. Lamivudine is no longer a first choice; patients currently taking lamivudine must switch if response is inadequate. Appropriate treatment of patients taking immunosuppressive medications is highly recommended. Pegylated interferon based therapy is recommended for the treatment of concomitant hepatitis D infection. Treatment naive chronic hepatitis C patients should initially receive pegylated interferon and ribavirin dual combination therapy. In genotype 1 infection if response is insufficient at 4 or 12 weeks one of the two new direct acting antivirals (boceprevir or telaprevir) should be added. The length of treatment is usually 48 weeks; in cases of extended early viral response shorter courses are recommended. Previous treatment failure patients with genotype 1 infection should receive a protease inhibitor backed triple combination therapy, mostly for 48 weeks. However, relapsers without cirrhosis and with extended rapid viral response, shorter telaprevir based combination therapy is sufficient. Drug-drug interactions as well as emergence of viral resistance are of particular importance. For genotype 2 or 3 HCV infections 24 weeks, for genotype 4 infections 24, 48 or 72 weeks of pegylated interferon plus ribavirin therapy is recommended in general. The guidelines published here become protocols when published as official publications of the Hungarian Health Authority."}
{"id": "22345333", "title": "Transient elastography in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Transient elastography in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a relevant issue in public health owing to its epidemiological burden. It represents the most common chronic liver disease in the general population and is expected to increase in future as a result of an ageing population. Liver biopsy is still considered the \"gold standard\" for distinguishing the broad range of NAFLD. However, liver biopsy is often not recommended in the NAFLD patients, because of its cost, the potential risk of bleeding and the absence of consensus regarding the histopathological criteria that firmly differentiate between the NAFLD entities. Due to the remarkable increase in the prevalence of NAFLD and the concomitant efforts in developing novel therapies, a non-invasive, simple and reproducible technique is needed in the clinical practice. Transient elastography is a non-invasive technique for liver stiffness measurement (LSM) as a function of the extent of hepatic fibrosis. This review focuses on practical issues in the use of LSM in the NAFLD patients and suggests areas for further research and development."}
{"id": "22333291", "title": "Non-invasive diagnostic assessment tools for the detection of liver fibrosis in patients with suspected alcohol-related liver disease: a systematic review and economic evaluation.", "content": "Non-invasive diagnostic assessment tools for the detection of liver fibrosis in patients with suspected alcohol-related liver disease: a systematic review and economic evaluation. Excessive alcohol consumption may lead to the development of alcohol-related liver disease (ALD). Liver biopsy may be used in patients with suspected ALD to confirm the diagnosis, exclude other or additional liver pathologies, and provide accurate staging of the degree of liver injury in order to enable the prediction of prognosis and inform treatment decisions. However, as it is an invasive procedure that carries the risk of morbidity and mortality, current UK guidance recommends that biopsy is not required to confirm the diagnosis in patients with a high clinical suspicion of ALD in whom blood tests have excluded other causes of liver disease, unless it is necessary to confirm a diagnosis of acute alcoholic hepatitis in order to inform specific treatment decisions. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy, cost-effectiveness, and effect on patient outcomes of four non-invasive tests for liver fibrosis [the Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF\u2122) test (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostic Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA), FibroTest (BioPredictive, Paris, France), FibroMAX (BioPredictive, Paris, France) and transient elastography (FibroScan(\u00ae); produced by EchoSens, Paris, France and distributed in the UK by Artemis Medical Ltd, Kent, UK)] in patients suspected of having ALD. A systematic review was undertaken to identify studies reporting the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of the ELF test, FibroTest, FibroMAX, and FibroScan for the identification of liver fibrosis and associated conditions in patients with suspected ALD. The following databases were searched in January 2010: MEDLINE (from 1950 to January 2010), MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations (from 1950 to January 2010), EMBASE (from 1980 to January 2010), Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (from 1996 to January 2010), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (from 1898 to January 2010), Cochrane Methodology Register (from 1904 to January 2010), Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (from 1995 to January 2010), HTA Database (from 1995 to January 2010), NHS Economic Evaluation Database (from 1995 to January 2010), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (from 1982 to January 2010), Web of Knowledge and Science Citation Index (from 1969 to January 2010). Study quality was assessed using the QUADAS (Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies) checklist. Owing to the heterogeneity of the studies, no formal meta-analysis was undertaken. A de novo mathematical model was constructed to estimate the incremental costs and incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with alternative strategies compared with a biopsy-all strategy. The tests are assessed first as a replacement for liver biopsy, and secondly as an additional test prior to liver biopsy. Thirty-six scenarios were assessed for each non-invasive test strategy, which varied the sensitivity of biopsy, the anxiety associated with biopsy, sensitivity and specificity values and whether or not the biopsy was percutaneous or transjugular. For each scenario, threshold levels were reported where biopsying all patients was more cost-effective than the strategy for two parameters (the decreased level of abstinence associated with the strategy compared with biopsying all and the level of incidental QALY gain associated with biopsy). No studies were identified that specifically assessed the ELF test, although a study was identified that evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of the European Liver Fibrosis Test (essentially, the ELF test with the addition of age to the algorithm) compared with biopsy. Three studies of FibroTest, no relevant studies of FibroMax, and six studies of FibroScan assessing accuracy compared with biopsy in patients with known or suspected alcohol-related liver disease were identified. In all studies, the number of patients with suspected ALD was small, meaning that the estimated sensitivities and specificities were not robust. No conclusive estimate of the cost per QALY of each non-invasive test could be provided. Scenarios exist in which each of the strategies analysed is more cost-effective than biopsying all patients and, in contrast, scenarios exist in which each strategy is less cost-effective than biopsying all patients. Study selection and data analysis were undertaken by one reviewer. No conclusive result can be provided on the most cost-effective strategy until further data are available. A large number of parameters require data; however, the following are selected as being of most importance: (1) the sensitivity and specificity of each non-invasive liver test (NILT) against biopsy at validated and pre-selected cut-off thresholds; (2) the influence of potential confounding variables such as current drinking behaviour and the degree of hepatic inflammation on the performance of NILTs; and (3) the likelihood, and magnitude, of decreases in abstinence rates associated with a diagnosis of significant ALD by diagnostic modality and the incidental gains in QALYs that may be associated with biopsy. The National Institute for Health Research Technology Assessment programme."}
{"id": "22318821", "title": "How many valid measurements are necessary to assess liver fibrosis using FibroScan\u00ae in patients with chronic viral hepatitis? An analysis of subjects with at least 10 valid measurements.", "content": "How many valid measurements are necessary to assess liver fibrosis using FibroScan\u00ae in patients with chronic viral hepatitis? An analysis of subjects with at least 10 valid measurements. Using FibroScan\u00ae to obtain a reliable liver stiffness measurement (LSM) may require more than 10 valid measurements (VMs), according to the manufacturer's recommendations. However, this requirement lacks scientific evidence in support thereof. We investigated the minimal number of VMs required to assess liver fibrosis without significant loss of accuracy in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and C (CHC) and predictors of discordance between LSM and liver biopsy (LB). Between January 2005 and December 2009, we prospectively enrolled 182 patients with CHB and 68 patients with CHC who were to undergo LB and LSM before starting antiviral treatment. Only LSMs with at least 10 VMs were considered reliable. The Batts and Ludwig scoring system was used for histologic assessment. The mean age and body mass index were 46.0 years and 23.4 kg/m\u00b2 in patients with CHB and 49.7 years and 23.1 kg/m\u00b2 in those with CHC, respectively. The median elasticity scores from the first 3, first 5, and all VMs taken significantly predicted fibrosis stages \u2265F2 and F4 (all p<0.05) without significant differences (all p>0.05 by DeLong's method). Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was the only predictor of discordance in fibrosis stage as estimated by the median elasticity score from the first 3 VMs and by LB in patients with CHB, whereas no significant predictor was identified in those with CHC. After comparison of patients who had more than 10 valid measurements for LSM, three VMs may be enough to assess liver fibrosis using LSM without significant loss of accuracy in patients with CHC and patients with CHB. However, ALT should be considered when interpreting LSM for patients with CHB."}
{"id": "22302243", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement using acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography and effect of necroinflammation.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement using acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography and effect of necroinflammation. Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography can be used to assess the degree of liver fibrosis. We evaluated the performance of ARFI elastography in assessment of liver fibrosis and compared it with the performance of aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI) and transient elastography with Fibroscan (FS). We prospectively analyzed 250 consecutive patients who underwent liver biopsy and ARFI from June 2010 to May 2011. Reliable FS values were obtained for 97 (38.8%) patients. The mean age of patients (147 male and 103 female) was 46.6 years. Liver stiffness values obtained by use of ARFI elastography significantly correlated with histological fibrosis stage (R = 0.575, P < 0.001). Area under the receiver operating characteristics curves (AUROCs) of ARFI elastography for predicting significant fibrosis (\u2265F2) and cirrhosis (F4) was 0.74 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.64-0.86, P = 0.001) and 0.79 (95% CI, 0.67-0.91, P = 0.001), respectively, and those for APRI were 0.69 (95% CI, 0.58-0.79, P = 0.001) and 0.76 (95% CI, 0.64-0.85, P < 0.001), respectively. The optimum cutoff values for ARFI elastography were 1.13 m/s for \u2265F2 and 1.98 m/s for F4; these decreased to 1.09 m/s for \u2265F2 and 1.81 m/s for F4 when 131 patients with normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were selected. In the sub-group of 97 patients with reliable FS values, the performance in predicting \u2265F2 or F4 was equivalent between ARFI elastography and FS. ARFI elastography is a reliable surrogate marker of liver fibrosis, if its relationship with biochemical markers, for example ALT level, is taken into account."}
{"id": "22289876", "title": "Levels of alanine aminotransferase confound use of transient elastography to diagnose fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection.", "content": "Levels of alanine aminotransferase confound use of transient elastography to diagnose fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Hepatic elastography (HE) is a noninvasive technique that measures liver stiffness and is used to diagnose hepatic fibrosis. It can help patients who are thought to have early-stage disease avoid a staging liver biopsy, but only when confounding variables that increase liver stiffness are excluded. Chronic inflammation from hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is not considered to be one of these variables. We identified 684 patients with HCV and METAVIR fibrosis scores of 0-2 from a prospective, multi-institutional study of liver stiffness in 2880 patients with chronic liver disease. Patients were 49.6 \u00b1 9.0 years old, 64.3% were male, and they had an average body mass index of 26.7 \u00b1 4.1 kg/m(2). In a multivariate analysis, inflammation (based on histologic analysis) and level of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were associated with liver stiffness. The chances of a patient having a level of stiffness that indicates cirrhosis increased with grade of inflammation and level of ALT. By using a conservative 14.5-kPa cutoff for the diagnosis of cirrhosis, grade 3 inflammation had an odds ratio of 9.10 (95% confidence interval, 2.49-33.4). Likewise, levels of ALT greater than 80 and 120 IU/L had odds ratios of 3.84 (95% confidence interval, 2.10-7.00) and 4.10 (95% confidence interval, 2.18-7.69), respectively. The effect of the level of ALT persisted when analysis was restricted to patients with fibrosis scores of F0 to F1. In patients with HCV infection and early-stage fibrosis, increased levels of ALT correlate with liver stiffness among patients in the lowest strata of fibrosis (METAVIR scores 0-2). Patients without fibrosis but high levels of ALT could have liver stiffness within the range for cirrhosis. Inflammation should be considered a confounding variable in analysis of liver stiffness."}
{"id": "22278746", "title": "Liver stiffness predicts clinical outcome in human immunodeficiency virus/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients with compensated liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Liver stiffness predicts clinical outcome in human immunodeficiency virus/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients with compensated liver cirrhosis. Our aim was to assess the predictive value of liver stiffness (LS), measured by transient elastography (TE), for clinical outcome in human immunodeficiency virus / hepatitis C virus (HIV/HCV)-coinfected patients with compensated liver cirrhosis. This was a prospective cohort study of 239 consecutive HIV/HCV-coinfected patients with a new diagnosis of cirrhosis, done by TE, and no previous decompensation of liver disease. The time from diagnosis to the first liver decompensation and death from liver disease, as well as the predictors of these outcomes, were evaluated. After a median (Q1-Q3) follow-up of 20 (9-34) months, 31 (13%, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 9%-17%) patients developed a decompensation. The incidence of decompensation was 6.7 cases per 100 person-years (95% CI, 4.7-9-6). Fourteen (8%) out of 181 patients with a baseline LS < 40 kPa developed a decompensation versus 17 (29%) out of 58 with LS \u2265 40 kPa (P = 0.001). Factors independently associated with decompensation were Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) class B versus A (hazard ratio [HR] 7.7; 95% CI 3.3-18.5; P < 0.0001), log-plasma HCV RNA load (HR 2.1; 95% CI 1.2-3.6; P = 0.01), hepatitis B virus coinfection (HR, 10.3; 95% CI, 2.1-50.4; P = 0.004) and baseline LS (HR 1.03; 95% CI 1.01-1.05; P = 0.02). Fifteen (6%, 95% CI: 3.5%-9.9%) patients died, 10 of them due to liver disease, and one underwent liver transplantation. CTP class B (HR 16.5; 95% CI 3.4-68.2; P < 0.0001) and previous exposure to HCV therapy (HR 7.4; 95% CI 1.7-32.4, P = 0.007) were independently associated with liver-related death; baseline LS (HR 1.03; 95% CI 0.98-1.07; P = 0.08) was of borderline significance. LS predicts the development of hepatic decompensations and liver-related mortality in HIV/HCV-coinfection with compensated cirrhosis and provides additional prognostic information to that provided by the CTP score."}
{"id": "22271046", "title": "Noninvasive elastography-based assessment of liver fibrosis progression and prognosis in primary biliary cirrhosis.", "content": "Noninvasive elastography-based assessment of liver fibrosis progression and prognosis in primary biliary cirrhosis. The development of liver fibrosis markers in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is needed to facilitate the assessment of its progression and the effectiveness of new therapies. Here, we investigated the potential usefulness of transient elastography (TE) in the noninvasive evaluation of liver fibrosis stage and disease progression in PBC. We performed, first, a prospective performance analysis of TE for the diagnosis of METAVIR fibrosis stages in a diagnostic cohort of 103 patients and, second, a retrospective longitudinal analysis of repeated examinations in a monitoring cohort of 150 patients followed-up for up to 5 years. All patients were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid. Diagnostic thresholds of liver stiffness in discriminating fibrosis stages \u2265 F1, \u2265 F2, \u2265 F3, and =F4 were 7.1, 8.8, 10.7, and 16.9 kPa, respectively. TE showed high performance and was significantly superior to biochemical markers (e.g., aspartate aminotransferase [AST]/platelet ratio, FIB-4, hyaluronic acid, AST/alanine aminotransferase ratio, and Mayo score) in diagnosing significant fibrosis, severe fibrosis, or cirrhosis. Analysis of the monitoring cohort data set using generalized linear models showed the following: (1) an overall progression rate of 0.48 \u00b1 0.21 kPa/year (P = 0.02) and (2) no significant progression in patients with F0-F1, F2, or F3 stages, but a significant increase (4.06 \u00b1 0.72 kPa/year; P < 0.0001) in cirrhotic patients. A cut-off value of 2.1 kPa/year was associated with an 8.4-fold increased risk of liver decompensations, liver transplantations, or deaths (P < 0.0001, Cox regression analysis). TE is one of the best current surrogate markers of liver fibrosis in PBC. Over a 5-year period, on-treatment liver stiffness appears stable in most noncirrhotic PBC patients, whereas it significantly increases in patients with cirrhosis. Progression of liver stiffness in PBC is predictive of poor outcome."}
{"id": "22261353", "title": "Non-invasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis in a series of patients with Wilson's Disease.", "content": "Non-invasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis in a series of patients with Wilson's Disease. Liver biopsy has always represented the standard of reference in hepatic fibrosis assessment. Recently, blood markers and instrumental methods have been proposed for non-invasive assessment. The aim of this study was to validate transient elastography and other non-invasive tests compared to liver histology in Wilson's Disease. Liver stiffness in 35 Wilson's Disease patients was evaluated by Fibroscan, serum fibrosis markers (AST-to-platelet-ratio index and FIB-4) and biopsy. Compared to liver histology, the FibroScan values increased proportionally with progression of the histological fibrosis stage. Significant fibrosis could be predicted with a Fibroscan cut-off value of 6.6 kPa. Advanced fibrosis could be predicted with a FibroScan cut-off value of 8.4 kPa. Serum fibrosis marker values gave good correlation with hepatic stage. A FibroScan value of 6.6 kPa was found to be a significant separation limit for differentiating significant fibrosis stages from milder stages and a fibroscan value of 8.4 kPa was found to be a significant separation limit for differentiating advanced fibrosis stages from milder stages. FibroScan values are clinically useful for predicting fibrosis stages and helpful in managing chronic therapy in Wilson's Disease patients."}
{"id": "22257449", "title": "[Usefulness of transient elastography (Fibroscan\u00ae) in the assessment of fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease].", "content": "[Usefulness of transient elastography (Fibroscan\u00ae) in the assessment of fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease]. The prognosis and management of chronic liver disease largely depends on the extent and progression of liver fibrosis. Unfortunately, liver biopsy, an invasive and painful technique with several limitations, continues to be the gold standard for the staging and grading of fibrosis. Therefore, accurate noninvasive tests for liver injury are urgently needed. During the last years, transient elastography (Fibroscan\u00ae) has been proposed for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease, by measuring liver stiffness. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness, objectivity and safety of this technique. We included 68 patients who underwent a liver biopsy in the last 18 months with a wide spectrum of chronic liver diseases. All procedures as well as the liver biopsies according to the METAVIR scoring system were analyzed by the same sonographer and the same specialist in pathology, respectively. Median value of stiffness with none or mild fibrosis (F0 and FI), and severe fibrosis or cirrhosis (F3 and F4) was 6.8 \u00b1 3.0 kPa and 21.0 \u00b1 15.1 kPa, respectively, with a significant difference between them (p < 0.01). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves showed the optimal liver stiffness cut-off values for each group. We found also a positive correlation between liver stiffness found by transient elastography and fibrosis stage on biopsy in all patients, independently of the liver disease etiology. Fibroscan\u00ae is an easy, quick to perform and safe non-invasive method, reliable for assessing liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22246952", "title": "Accuracy of MR elastography and anatomic MR imaging features in the diagnosis of severe hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis.", "content": "Accuracy of MR elastography and anatomic MR imaging features in the diagnosis of severe hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis. To compare the diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging elastography (MRE) and anatomic MRI features in the diagnosis of severe hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis. Three readers independently assessed presence of morphological changes associated with hepatic fibrosis in 72 patients with liver biopsy including: caudate to right lobe ratios, nodularity, portal venous hypertension (PVH) stigmata, posterior hepatic notch, expanded gallbladder fossa, and right hepatic vein caliber. Three readers measured shear stiffness values using quantitative shear stiffness maps (elastograms). Sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of stiffness values and each morphological feature were calculated. Interreader agreement was summarized using weighted kappa statistics. Intraclass correlation coefficient was used to assess interreader reproducibility of stiffness measurements. Binary logistic regression was used to assess interreader variability for dichotomized stiffness values and each morphological feature. Using 5.9 kPa as a cutoff for differentiating F3-F4 from F0-2 stages, overall sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy for MRE were 85.4%, 88.4%, and 87%, respectively. Overall interreader agreement for stiffness values was substantial, with an insignificant difference (P = 0.74) in the frequency of differentiating F3-4 from F0-2 fibrosis. Only hepatic nodularity and PVH stigmata showed moderately high overall accuracy of 69.4% and 72.2%. Interreader agreement was substantial only for PVH stigmata, moderate for C/R m, deep notch, and expanded gallbladder fossa. Only posterior hepatic notch (P = 0.82) showed no significant difference in reader rating. MRE is a noninvasive, accurate, and reproducible technique compared with conventional features of detecting severe hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "22239521", "title": "Performance of Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse imaging for the staging of liver fibrosis: a pooled meta-analysis.", "content": "Performance of Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse imaging for the staging of liver fibrosis: a pooled meta-analysis. Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) imaging is a novel ultrasound-based elastography method that is integrated in a conventional ultrasound machine enabling the exact localization of measurement site. It might present an alternative method to transient elastography for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis. At present, studies with small patient population have shown promising results. A systematic review and meta-analysis of pooled patient data were performed to evaluate the overall performance of ARFI for the staging of liver fibrosis. Literature databases were searched up to 10/2010. The authors of the original publication were contacted, and the original patient data were requested. A meta-analysis was performed using a random effect meta-analytic method for diagnostic tests. In addition, available data comparing ARFI with FibroScan with the DeLong test were evaluated. Literature search yielded nine full-paper publications evaluating ARFI while using liver biopsy as reference method. Original patient data were available from eight studies including 518 patients. The mean diagnostic accuracy of ARFI expressed as areas under ROC curves (AUROC) was 0.87 for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2), 0.91 for the diagnosis of severe fibrosis (F \u2265 3), and 0.93 for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. ARFI can be performed with good diagnostic accuracy for the noninvasive staging of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "22239518", "title": "Transient elastography for predicting clinical outcomes in patients with chronic liver disease.", "content": "Transient elastography for predicting clinical outcomes in patients with chronic liver disease. There is increasing interest in developing noninvasive means to evaluate liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease to determine disease severity, prognosis and optimal treatment. Transient elastography (TE) has previously been demonstrated to predict the presence or absence of advanced fibrosis. The current study was conducted to determine whether TE can identify patients with chronic liver disease at risk of clinical decompensation. A total of 667 patients underwent TE and were followed for a median of 861 days and 57 patients achieved the primary outcome, a composite of clinical endpoints including death, ascites, encephalopathy, increased Child Score \u2265 2, variceal bleed, hepatocellular carcinoma or listing for transplant. Overall, TE had an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.87 for predicting clinical outcome. Using a cut-off of 10.5 kPa, TE has a sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value (NPV) of 94.7%, 63.0%, 19.3% and 99.2%, respectively. A predictive model for clinical events was developed using generalized cross-validation for clinical endpoints considering TE, liver biopsy results and multiple other predictors. Individually, TE performed better than biopsy, or any other variable, for predicting clinical outcome [Harrell's C Statistic 0.86 for TE, 0.78 for stage]. Patients with a TE score of >12.5 kPa were found to have a relative hazard for clinical event of 18.99 compared with patients with TE score <10.5. A combined variable model including TE, aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase ratio and model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) yielded the highest predictive accuracy with Harrell's C value of 0.93. In the subset of patients with cirrhosis, TE was not found to be independently associated with clinical outcomes in univariate or multivariate analysis although it retained a high sensitivity and NPV of 97.5% and 92.3%, respectively, at a kPa cut-off of 10.5. TE can successfully identify patients with chronic liver disease who are at low risk of clinical decompensation over a time period of 2 years."}
{"id": "22233410", "title": "How far is noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis from replacing liver biopsy in hepatitis C?", "content": "How far is noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis from replacing liver biopsy in hepatitis C? Chronic hepatitis C represents a major cause of progressive liver disease that can eventually evolve into cirrhosis and its end-stage complications. Formation and accumulation of fibrosis in the liver is the common pathway that leads to evolutive liver disease. Precise staging of liver fibrosis is essential for patient management in clinical practice because the presence of bridging fibrosis represents a strong indication for antiviral therapy, while cirrhosis requires a specific follow-up. Liver biopsy has always represented the standard of reference for assessment of hepatic fibrosis, but it has limitations: it is invasive, costly and prone to sampling errors. Recently, blood markers and instrumental methods have been proposed for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in hepatitis C. However, international guidelines do not recommend the widespread use of noninvasive methods for liver fibrosis in clinical practice. This is because of, in some cases, unsatisfactory accuracy and incomplete validation of others. Some studies suggest that the effectiveness of noninvasive methods for assessing liver fibrosis may increase when they are combined, and a number of sequential and synchronous algorithms have been proposed for this purpose, with the aim of reducing rather than substituting liver biopsies. This may represent a rational and reliable approach for implementing noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in clinical practice. It could allow more comprehensive first-line screening of liver fibrosis in hepatitis C than would be feasible with liver biopsy alone."}
{"id": "22197275", "title": "[Evaluation of the costs of transient elastography (FibroScan(\u00ae)) in the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in HIV patients with hepatitis C virus].", "content": "[Evaluation of the costs of transient elastography (FibroScan(\u00ae)) in the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in HIV patients with hepatitis C virus]. The assessment of liver fibrosis is crucial for taking therapeutic decisions in patients infected with HIV/AIDS coinfected with HCV, because it allows the prognosis of the disease and the prioritization of hepatitis C treatment in these patients. A discrete events model simulation (DEMS) and a Markov model have been developed to represent the evolution of liver fibrosis to cirrhosis in patients coinfected with HIV/HVC. The model evaluated two alternatives for the diagnosis and monitoring of these patients, transient elastography performed annually and liver biopsy performed every seven years. The models have been developed under Health Care System perspective and only considered direct medical costs (disease treatment and health state costs). One-way sensitivity analyses were carried out to assess the impact of parameters with higher uncertainty. A discount rate of 3% was applied. Base case analysis shows that the diagnosis and monitoring of patients with transient elastography is a dominant strategy compared with to liver biopsy, resulting in greater life expectancy at lower cost. The sensitivity analysis performed confirmed the robustness of these results. Transient elastography has proved to be a dominant strategy compared to liver biopsy in the diagnosis and monitoring of liver fibrosis in patients coinfected with HIV/HCV in Spain."}
{"id": "22173167", "title": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis using liver stiffness measurement: comparison between M and XL probe of FibroScan\u00ae.", "content": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis using liver stiffness measurement: comparison between M and XL probe of FibroScan\u00ae. Unreliable results of liver stiffness measurement are obtained in 16% of cases and are independently associated with body mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m(2). A new FibroScan\u00ae probe (XL probe) was designed specifically for obese patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement using M and XL probes of Fibroscan\u00ae for the diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis in a large cohort of patients. Consecutive patients undergoing liver biopsies for chronic liver disease were prospectively recruited. Liver stiffness measurement was performed within 1 week before liver biopsy using both M and XL probes of FibroScan\u00ae. A total of 286 patients were evaluated. A reliable liver stiffness measurement using M probe was obtained in 79.7% of cases. In the other 21.3%, liver stiffness measurement using XL probe was obtained in 56.9% of patients. A strong correlation was found between M and XL values, regardless of BMI. In all groups, median liver stiffness measurement using the XL probe was significantly lower than liver stiffness measurement using the M probe. By multivariate analysis, unsuccessful liver stiffness examination with M probe was independently associated with age >50 years and BMI >30 kg/m(2). By univariate analysis, only BMI >30 kg/m(2) was associated with unsuccessful liver stiffness measurement with XL probe. No significant difference was observed between the M and XL probes for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis. Liver stiffness measurement with either M or XL probe is possible in 91.2% of patients with comparable diagnostic accuracy. In clinical practice, the M probe could be used as first step for liver stiffness measurement. In case of no valid shot or unreliable measurement, the XL probe could be used. This result could be useful for the assessment of liver fibrosis in NAFLD and/or obese patients."}
{"id": "22173152", "title": "Twenty-year protocol liver biopsies: Invasive but useful for the management of liver recipients.", "content": "Twenty-year protocol liver biopsies: Invasive but useful for the management of liver recipients. Most liver transplant centres have discontinued the practice of protocol liver biopsies (LB), mainly because of the perceived lack of therapeutic benefit. This study aimed to examine the usefulness of 20-year LBs. Ten, 15, and 20-year protocol LBs from 147 patients surviving for >20 years were reviewed. Twenty-year biopsy findings were correlated with clinical data. Twenty-year-biopsy patients (N=91) and 20-year-non-biopsy patients (N=56) were similar in terms of transplant data, adverse events, and liver function tests (LFTs). Twenty-year LBs revealed a 90% prevalence of abnormalities, among which viral chronic hepatitis (VCH) was the most common (46%). Between 15 and 20 years, hepatic structural abnormalities were the only disorder to increase (p=0.008). An individual progression of abnormalities occurred in 56% of patients. At 20 years, the negative and positive predictive values (PV) of LFTs with respect to histological abnormalities were 95% and 18%, respectively; in VCH, Fibrotest and transient elastography displayed poor discriminative ability for fibrosis (80% and 81% discordance, respectively), but were satisfactory regarding significant fibrosis (negative PV of 77.7% and 80%, respectively). A decrease in immunosuppression was less frequent (14/91 vs. 20/56, p=0.008) while an increase was more common (15/91 vs. 2/56, p=0.017) in 20-year-biopsy patients than in non-biopsy patients. Antiviral therapy was administered in seven of the 20-year biopsy patients, but in none of the non-biopsy patients (p=0.04). Twenty-year LBs provided important histological information on graft function that was available to a limited degree from LFTs and non-invasive markers. They exerted an impact on immunosuppressive and antiviral therapies."}
{"id": "22140010", "title": "Ultrasound-based transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis in patients with recurrent hepatitis C virus after liver transplantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Ultrasound-based transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis in patients with recurrent hepatitis C virus after liver transplantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Ultrasound-based transient elastography (TE) is a promising noninvasive alternative to liver biopsy for the detection of hepatic fibrosis due to recurrent hepatitis C virus (HCV) after liver transplantation (LT). However, its overall test performance in various settings remains unknown. The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review and diagnostic accuracy meta-analysis of studies comparing ultrasound-based TE to liver biopsy for the detection of hepatic fibrosis due to a recurrent HCV infection after LT. Electronic and manual bibliographic searches (including scientific abstracts) were performed to identify potential studies. A meta-analysis was conducted to generate pooled estimates of the sensitivity values, specificity values, likelihood ratios, and diagnostic odds ratios of individual studies. The extent of the heterogeneity and the reasons for it were assessed. Six fully published studies were identified for analysis. Five studies that evaluated significant fibrosis were identified. Among these studies, the pooled estimates were 83% for sensitivity [95% confidence interval (CI) = 77%-88%], 83% for specificity (95% CI = 77%-88%), 4.95 for the positive likelihood ratio (95% CI = 3.4-7.2), 0.17 for the negative likelihood ratio (95% CI = 0.09-0.35), and 30.5 for the diagnostic odds ratio (95% CI = 12.8-72.4). For the 5 studies that assessed cirrhosis, the pooled estimates were 98% for sensitivity (95% CI = 90%-100%), 84% for specificity (95% CI = 80%-88%), 7 for the positive likelihood ratio (95% CI = 2.8-17.3), 0.06 for the negative likelihood ratio (95% CI = 0.02-0.19), and 130 for the diagnostic odds ratio (95% CI = 36.5-462.1). A diagnostic threshold (or cutoff value) bias was identified as an important cause of heterogeneity for the pooled results of both patient groups. In conclusion, ultrasound-based TE has excellent diagnostic accuracy for identifying cirrhosis due to a recurrent HCV infection after LT. The detection of significant fibrosis is more accurate for these patients versus patients whose native liver is chronically infected with HCV."}
{"id": "22138553", "title": "Hepatic safety of efavirenz in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients with advanced liver fibrosis.", "content": "Hepatic safety of efavirenz in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients with advanced liver fibrosis. To assess the frequency of severe liver toxicity in HIV/hepatitis C (HCV)-coinfected patients with advanced liver fibrosis receiving efavirenz (EFV)-based antiretroviral combinations. One hundred and eighty-nine previously antiretroviral na\u00efve, HIV/HCV-coinfected patients, who started a regimen including two nucleoside analogues plus EFV, and in whom the presence or absence of advanced liver fibrosis could be established, were retrospectively analyzed. Liver fibrosis was evaluated according to a stepwise algorithm including liver biopsy, transient elastography and FIB-4 index. Fifty-six patients had advanced fibrosis - 25 with cirrhosis - and 133 did not. Three (5.4%) subjects with and 9 (6.8%) (p=0.717) without advanced fibrosis developed grade 3-4 transaminase elevation (TE). Grade 4 total bilirubin elevation was seen in 5 (8.9%) patients with advanced fibrosis and in 1 (0.8%) without it (p=0.003). Liver events led to EFV discontinuation in 10 (5.3%) patients, 6 (10.7%) with and 4 (3%) without advanced fibrosis (p=0.031). The hepatic tolerability of EFV was good in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients with advanced liver fibrosis. The frequency of grade 3-4 TE was similar to that observed in patients without advanced fibrosis, there was no death attributable to liver failure caused by drug toxicity and the rate of EFV discontinuations due to liver events was low."}
{"id": "22103765", "title": "Direct comparison of diagnostic performance of transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B and chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Direct comparison of diagnostic performance of transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B and chronic hepatitis C. Accuracy of transient elastography (TE) in hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection has not been well established. We aimed to compare the performances of TE for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic HBV or hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. A secondary analysis was performed to assess whether or not alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels would impact on the accuracy of TE. This cross-sectional study, carried out in a single centre, included treatment-na\u00efve patients with compensated chronic HBV or HCV infection, consecutively admitted between 2006 and 2008 for a liver biopsy and TE measurement on the same day. A total of 202 HBV patients and 363 HCV subjects were evaluated. Overall diagnostic accuracy of TE in the HBV group was comparable to that observed in HCV patients [area under the receiver-operating characteristics (AUROCs) 0.867 \u00b1 0.026 vs. 0.868 \u00b1 0.019 for predicting F \u2265 2, P = 0.975; 0.902 \u00b1 0.029 vs. 0.894 \u00b1 0.020 for F \u2265 3, P = 0.820; and 0.935 \u00b1 0.024 vs. 0.947 \u00b1 0.027 for F4, P = 0.740 respectively]. TE exhibited comparable accuracies, sensitivities, specificities, predictive values and likelihood ratios in HBV and HCV groups. AUROC analysis showed no influence of ALT levels on the performance of TE in HBV individuals. ALT-specific cut-off values did not exhibit significantly higher diagnostic performances for predicting fibrosis in HBV patients with elevated ALT. In HBV patients, TE measurement accurately predicts the absence or presence of significant fibrosis, advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis and shows similar performances as compared to HCV patients. The use of TE cut-off values adjusted to ALT level did not improve performances for estimating liver fibrosis in HBV patients."}
{"id": "22103568", "title": "Beneficial effect of successful HCV treatment in patients with inherited bleeding disorders, assessed by liver stiffness measurements.", "content": "Beneficial effect of successful HCV treatment in patients with inherited bleeding disorders, assessed by liver stiffness measurements. Hepatitis C infection is a major comorbidity in patients with inherited bleeding disorders. Successful antiviral treatment leads to a reduction in liver fibrosis, as shown by liver biopsies. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) is a non-invasive method of assessing liver fibrosis. The aim of this cohort study was to evaluate the long-term effect of successful antiviral treatment, using LSM, in HCV-infected patients with inherited bleeding disorders. The LSM were performed in 2005 (LSM 1) and 2009 (LSM 2) in 39 patients who were successfully treated for HCV. The change in liver fibrosis between LSM 1 and 2 was assessed. The median duration of HCV infection was 28.8 years. A total of 22 patients (56%) underwent successful antiviral treatment before LSM 1 (group 1), and 17 patients between LSM 1 and LSM 2 (group 2). The median time since antiviral treatment was 8.8 years in group 1 and 2.5 years in group 2. In group 1, the median results of LSM 1 and 2 were similar (6.0 vs. 5.6 kPa, P-value 0.36), so overall, patients remained stable. In three patients in this group, all treated more than 15 years ago, an increase of liver stiffness was shown. Group 2 showed a significant improvement in median LSM results (10.3 vs. 6.1 kPa, P-value <0.01), with decrease of liver stiffness in 82%. Even after a long HCV infection duration, successful antiviral treatment led to a significant improvement of fibrosis, measured by LSM, mainly in the first few years after completing treatment."}
{"id": "22100369", "title": "Diffusion-weighted MRI versus transient elastography in quantification of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic cholestatic liver diseases.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted MRI versus transient elastography in quantification of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic cholestatic liver diseases. To evaluate the diagnostic value of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWMRI) and transient elastography (TE) in quantification of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic cholestatic liver diseases. Forty-five patients underwent DWMRI, TE, and liver biopsy for staging of liver fibrosis. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) was calculated for six locations in the liver for combination of five diffusion sensitivity values b=0, 50, 200, 400 and 800 s/mm(2). A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to determine the diagnostic performance of DWMRI and TE. Segmental ADC variations were evaluated by means of coefficient of variation. The mean ADCs (\u00d7 10(-3)mm(2)/s; b=0-800 s/mm(2)) were significantly different at stage F1 versus F \u2265 2 (p<0.05) and F2 versus F4. However, no significant difference was found between F2 and F3. For prediction of F \u2265 2 and F \u2265 3 areas under the ROC curves were 0.868 and 0.906 for DWMRI, and 0.966 and 0.960 for TE, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity were 90.9% and 89.3% for F \u2265 2 (ADC \u2264 1.65), and 92.3% and 92.1% for F \u2265 3 (ADC \u2264 1.63). Segmental ADC variation was lowest for F4 (CV=9.54 \u00b1 6.3%). DWMRI and TE could be used for assessment of liver fibrosis with TE having higher diagnostic accuracy and DWMRI providing insight into liver fibrosis distribution."}
{"id": "22098684", "title": "Evaluation of transient elastography for fibrosis assessment compared with large biopsies in chronic hepatitis B and C.", "content": "Evaluation of transient elastography for fibrosis assessment compared with large biopsies in chronic hepatitis B and C. Fibrosis determines prognosis and management in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C (CHB and CHC). Transient elastography (TE) is a promising non-invasive method to assess fibrosis. We prospectively studied the performance of TE compared to histology and also whether there are differences between CHB and CHC. Only large biopsies (\u2265 25 mm) were used. We included 241 patients with CHB (n = 125) and CHC (n = 116), of whom we acquired 257 liver biopsies, all preceded by elastography. We correlated liver stiffness with fibrosis stage according to the METAVIR system, inflammation (Histology Activity Index), steatosis and iron. The impact of gender, age, body mass index, alcohol, alanine aminotransferase levels, platelet count, viral load and genotype on liver stiffness was evaluated. The AUROC's for F \u2265 2 were 0.85 for CHB and 0.76 for CHC. AUROC's for F \u2265 3 were 0.91 for CHB and 0.87 for CHC and 0.90 and 0.91 for F4 for CHB and CHC respectively. For F \u2265 2 the cut-off value was 6.0 kPa for CHB and 5.0 kPa for CHC. The cut-off values for \u2265 F3 were 9.0 and 8.0 kPa for CHB and CHC, respectively, and 13.0 kPa for F4 in both CHB and CHC patients. Besides inflammation, all other remaining factors do not influence liver stiffness. For the diagnosis of fibrosis stages F \u2264 2 TE is suboptimal, and inflammation may induce higher values. For stages F \u2265 3 TE performance is good and equal in both CHB and CHC patients."}
{"id": "22027584", "title": "Discordance in fibrosis staging between liver biopsy and transient elastography using the FibroScan XL probe.", "content": "Discordance in fibrosis staging between liver biopsy and transient elastography using the FibroScan XL probe. The FibroScan XL probe facilitates liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography (TE) in obese patients, yet factors affecting its accuracy have not been described. Our objectives were to examine the prevalence, risk factors, and causes of discordance between fibrosis estimated by the FibroScan XL probe and biopsy. Two hundred and ten patients with chronic liver disease (45% viral hepatitis, 55% nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and a body mass index (BMI) \u2265 28 kg/m(2)) underwent liver biopsy and TE with the FibroScan XL probe. Predictors of discordance \u2265 2 fibrosis stages between measures, which occurred in 11% of patients (n=24), were identified by comparing patient, TE, and biopsy characteristics of discordant and non-discordant cases. Fibrosis estimated by the FibroScan XL probe was greater than biopsy in 75% (18/24) of discordant cases. Although biopsy quality was not associated with discordance, discordant cases were less likely to have \u2265 10 valid shots (75% vs. 97%; p=0.001), a success rate \u2265 60% (67% vs. 95%; p <0.0005), and an interquartile range over median liver stiffness (IQR/M) <21% (37% vs. 57%; p=0.07) than non-discordant cases. However, only increased BMI (odds ratio [OR] 1.09 per kg/m(2); 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01-1.18; p=0.04) was independently associated with discordance; liver stiffness was of borderline significance (OR 1.73 per log(10)-transformed value; 95% CI 0.95-3.18; p=0.08). Discordance was 4- to 5-fold more frequent among patients with severe obesity (BMI \u2265 40 kg/m(2): 32% vs. 8%) and liver stiffness above the median of 7.0 kPa (20% vs. 4%; both p <0.0005). Discordance between liver fibrosis estimated by biopsy and TE using the FibroScan XL probe was infrequent in this obese population. Patients with severe obesity and elevated liver stiffness have the greatest risk of discordance."}
{"id": "21967341", "title": "Liver fibrosis screening for patients with psoriasis taking methotrexate: a cross-sectional study comparing transient elastography and liver biopsy.", "content": "Liver fibrosis screening for patients with psoriasis taking methotrexate: a cross-sectional study comparing transient elastography and liver biopsy."}
{"id": "21952989", "title": "\"Normal\" liver stiffness measure (LSM) values are higher in both lean and obese individuals: a population-based study from a developing country.", "content": "\"Normal\" liver stiffness measure (LSM) values are higher in both lean and obese individuals: a population-based study from a developing country. The liver stiffness measure (LSM) needs to be explored in ethnically and anthropometrically diverse healthy subjects (to derive an acceptable normal range) and also in patients with liver disease. In view of this objective, LSM was performed by transient elastography (TE) using FibroScan in 437 healthy subjects with normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, recruited from a free-living population of the Birbhum Population Project (BIRPOP; www.shds.in), a Health and Demographic Surveillance System (HDSS), and from 274 patients with liver disease attending the Hepatology Clinic of the School of Digestive and Liver Diseases (SDLD; Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research [IPGME&R], Kolkata, India) including 188 with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and 86 with chronic hepatitis of viral and other etiologies. Liver biopsy was performed in 125 patients. The range of normal values for LSM, defined by 5th and 95th percentile values in healthy subjects, was 3.2 and 8.5 kPa, respectively. Healthy subjects with a lower body mass index (BMI; < <18.5 kg/m(2)) had a higher LSM compared with subjects who had a normal BMI; this LSM value was comparable to that of obese subjects (6.05 \u00b1 1.78 versus 5.51 \u00b1 1.59 and 6.60 \u00b1 1.21, P = 0.016 and 0.349, respectively). Liver disease patients without histologic fibrosis had significantly higher LSM values compared with healthy subjects (7.52 \u00b1 5.49 versus 5.63 \u00b1 1.64, P < 0.001). Among the histologic variables, stage of fibrosis was the only predictor for LSM. LSM did not correlate with inflammatory activity and ALT in both NAFLD and chronic hepatitis groups. LSM varies between 3.2 and 8.5 kPa in healthy subjects of South Asian origin. Both lean and obese healthy subjects have higher LSM values compared with subjects with normal BMI. Liver stiffness begins to increase even before fibrosis appears in patients with liver disease."}
{"id": "21930442", "title": "Liver stiffness correlates with methotrexate cumulative dose in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Liver stiffness correlates with methotrexate cumulative dose in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Liver stiffness values were recently proposed to identify patients with methotrexate-induced liver fibrosis. Aim of this study was to assess the clinical and laboratory determinants of the association between liver stiffness, measured by transient elastography, and methotrexate treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the absence of other factors contributing to liver damage and fibrosis. 100 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, with a cumulative methotrexate dose ranging from 1530 to 13,000 mg over a mean period of 7.07\u00b13.89 yrs, were retrospectively evaluated. The average liver stiffness value in the whole population was 4.93\u00b11.8 kPa, excluding the presence of significant fibrosis. At univariate analysis, a significant correlation was found between liver stiffness and methotrexate cumulative dose, duration of treatment, alanine transaminases levels, body mass index, gamma glutamyl-transpeptidase and the presence of steatosis. At multivariate analysis, a significant association was detected only between liver stiffness and methotrexate cumulative dose. Out of 11 patients with liver stiffness >7.0 kPa, five were subjected to liver biopsy and mild or moderate perisinusoidal fibrosis was detected in two patients with a cumulative dose >4000 mg and liver stiffness >9 kPa. Chronic methotrexate treatment induces a progressive increase in liver stiffness corresponding to mild or moderate perisinusoidal fibrosis for values >9 kPa."}
{"id": "21907650", "title": "Improving transient elastography performance for detecting hepatitis B cirrhosis.", "content": "Improving transient elastography performance for detecting hepatitis B cirrhosis. Transient elastography is a well-established method for detecting cirrhosis. To improve the performance of transient elastography in detecting hepatitis B cirrhosis by alanine aminotransferase (ALT)-stratified cutoffs, bilirubin normalization and transient elastography-based algorithms. A total of 315 compensated patients were analysed following liver biopsies, transient elastography, ultrasonography and blood tests. The area under the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve of transient elastography for predicting cirrhosis was 0.88 (95% confidence interval 0.84-0.92). The cutoffs to exclude and confirm cirrhosis were 10.4 kPa and 17.3 kPa in patients with ALT <5 \u00d7 upper limit of normal range, 13.7 kPa and 25.0 kPa in ALT \u22655 \u00d7 upper limit of normal range, respectively. With ALT-stratified cutoffs, 68.6% of patients did not require liver biopsies. Areas under the ROC curve in patients with normal or abnormal bilirubin was 0.90(0.85-0.95) and 0.84(0.77-0.92), respectively. In patients with normal bilirubin, the cutoffs for excluding and confirming cirrhosis were 10.6 kPa and 16.9 kPa, respectively. By transient elastography screening, 78.3% of patients with normal bilirubin would not need a liver biopsy. Areas under the ROC curves between transient elastography and transient elastography-based algorithm including transient elastography-splenomegaly-platelet index [0.90(0.86-0.94)] and ultrasonic score-transient elastography index [0.91(0.86-0.96)] were not significantly different. Amongst ALT-stratified cutoffs, bilirubin normalization and transient elastography-based algorithm, bilirubin normalization was especially important for improving performance of transient elastography for compensated hepatitis B cirrhosis detection."}
{"id": "21898504", "title": "Comparison of eight diagnostic algorithms for liver fibrosis in hepatitis C: new algorithms are more precise and entirely noninvasive.", "content": "Comparison of eight diagnostic algorithms for liver fibrosis in hepatitis C: new algorithms are more precise and entirely noninvasive. The sequential algorithm for fibrosis evaluation (SAFE) and the Bordeaux algorithm (BA), which cross-check FibroTest with the aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI) or FibroScan, are very accurate but provide only a binary diagnosis of significant fibrosis (SAFE or BA for Metavir F \u2265 2) or cirrhosis (SAFE or BA for F4). Therefore, in clinical practice, physicians have to apply the algorithm for F \u2265 2, and then, when needed, the algorithm for F4 (\"successive algorithms\"). We aimed to evaluate successive SAFE, successive BA, and a new, noninvasive, detailed classification of fibrosis. The study included 1785 patients with chronic hepatitis C, liver biopsy, blood fibrosis tests, and FibroScan (the latter in 729 patients). The most accurate synchronous combination of FibroScan with a blood test (FibroMeter) provided a new detailed (six classes) classification (FM+FS). Successive SAFE had a significantly (P < 10(-3) ) lower diagnostic accuracy (87.3%) than individual SAFE for F \u2265 2 (94.6%) or SAFE for F4 (89.5%), and required significantly more biopsies (70.8% versus 64.0% or 6.4%, respectively, P < 10(-3) ). Similarly, successive BA had significantly (P \u2264 10(-3) ) lower diagnostic accuracy (84.7%) than individual BA for F \u2265 2 (88.3%) or BA for F4 (94.2%), and required significantly more biopsies (49.8% versus 34.6% or 24.6%, respectively, P < 10(-3) ). The diagnostic accuracy of the FM+FS classification (86.7%) was not significantly different from those of successive SAFE or BA. However, this new classification required no biopsy. SAFE and BA for significant fibrosis or cirrhosis are very accurate. However, their successive use induces a significant decrease in diagnostic accuracy and a significant increase in required liver biopsy. A new fibrosis classification that synchronously combines two fibrosis tests was as accurate as successive SAFE or BA, while providing an entirely noninvasive (0% liver biopsy) and more precise (six versus two or three fibrosis classes) fibrosis diagnosis."}
{"id": "21898479", "title": "Feasibility and diagnostic performance of the FibroScan XL probe for liver stiffness measurement in overweight and obese patients.", "content": "Feasibility and diagnostic performance of the FibroScan XL probe for liver stiffness measurement in overweight and obese patients. Failure of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography (TE, FibroScan) and unreliable results occur in \u2248 5% and 15% of patients, respectively, mainly due to obesity. In this multicenter study, we evaluated the feasibility and performance of the novel FibroScan XL probe in 276 patients with chronic liver disease (42% viral hepatitis, 46% nonalcoholic fatty liver disease [NAFLD]) and a body mass index (BMI) \u2265 28 kg/m(2) . Patients underwent liver biopsy and TE with the standard M and XL probes. TE failure was defined as no valid LSMs and unreliable examinations as <10 valid LSMs or an interquartile range (IQR)/LSM >30% or success rate <60%. Probe performance for diagnosing \u2265 F2 fibrosis and cirrhosis (F4) versus biopsy were examined using areas under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROC). FibroScan failure was less frequent with the XL probe than the M probe (1.1% versus 16%) and the XL probe was more often reliable (73% versus 50%; both P < 0.00005). Reliable results with the XL probe were obtained in 61% of patients in whom the M probe was unreliable. Among 178 patients with \u2265 10 valid LSMs using both probes, liver stiffness was highly correlated between probes (\u03c1 = 0.86; P < 0.0005); however, median liver stiffness was lower using the XL probe (6.8 versus 7.8 kPa; P < 0.00005). The AUROC of the XL and M probes were similar for \u2265 F2 fibrosis (0.83 versus 0.86; P = 0.19) and cirrhosis (0.94 versus 0.91; P = 0.28). Compared with the M probe, the FibroScan XL probe reduces TE failure and facilitates reliable LSM in obese patients. Although the probes have comparable accuracy, lower liver stiffness cutoffs will be necessary when the XL probe is used to noninvasively assess liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "21846782", "title": "Prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and advanced fibrosis in Hong Kong Chinese: a population study using proton-magnetic resonance spectroscopy and transient elastography.", "content": "Prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and advanced fibrosis in Hong Kong Chinese: a population study using proton-magnetic resonance spectroscopy and transient elastography. Knowledge of the epidemiology of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is incomplete because liver biopsy cannot be performed on the general population to assess disease severity. New non-invasive tests allow accurate and safe assessment in healthy individuals. The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of NAFLD and advanced fibrosis in the general Hong Kong Chinese population. Subjects were recruited from the community by random selection from the government census database. Liver fat and fibrosis were assessed by proton-magnetic resonance spectroscopy and transient elastography, respectively. Overall, 264 of 922 (28.6%) subjects had intrahepatic triglyceride content \u22655%. Excluding 12 subjects with significant alcohol consumption, the population prevalence of NAFLD was 27.3% (95% CI 24.5% to 30.2%). Each component of the metabolic syndrome increased the risk of fatty liver in a dose-dependent manner (prevalence of 4.5% in subjects without any component and 80.0% in those with all five components). 8 (3.7%) patients with fatty liver had liver stiffness \u22659.6 kPa, a level suggestive of advanced fibrosis. Body mass index and alanine aminotransferase level were independent factors associated with liver stiffness. Together with other clinical prediction scores, the estimated prevalence of advanced fibrosis in patients with fatty liver in the community was <10%. Compared with non-drinkers, modest drinkers (<10 g per day) did not have higher risk of fatty liver after adjustment for demographic and metabolic factors. The liver stiffness was 4.7\u00b11.9 kPa in modest drinkers and 4.6\u00b11.7 kPa in non-drinkers (p=0.54). NAFLD is found in over a quarter of the general adult Chinese population, but the proportion of patients with advanced fibrosis is low. Modest alcohol consumption does not increase the risk of fatty liver or liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "21781944", "title": "Comparison of nine blood tests and transient elastography for liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C: the ANRS HCEP-23 study.", "content": "Comparison of nine blood tests and transient elastography for liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C: the ANRS HCEP-23 study. Blood tests and transient elastography (Fibroscan\u2122) have been developed as alternatives to liver biopsy. This ANRS HCEP-23 study compared the diagnostic accuracy of nine blood tests and transient elastography (Fibroscan\u2122) to assess liver fibrosis, vs. liver biopsy, in untreated patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). This was a multicentre prospective independent study in 19 French University hospitals of consecutive adult patients having simultaneous liver biopsy, biochemical blood tests (performed in a centralized laboratory) and Fibroscan\u2122. Two experienced pathologists independently reviewed the liver biopsies (mean length=25\u00b18.4 mm). Performance was assessed using ROC curves corrected by Obuchowski's method. Fibroscan\u2122 was not interpretable in 113 (22%) patients. In the 382 patients having both blood tests and interpretable Fibroscan\u2122, Fibroscan\u2122 performed similarly to the best blood tests for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis. Obuchowski's measure showed Fibrometer\u00ae (0.86), Fibrotest\u00ae (0.84), Hepascore\u00ae (0.84), and interpretable Fibroscan\u2122 (0.84) to be the most accurate tests. The combination of Fibrotest\u00ae, Fibrometer\u00ae, or Hepascore\u00ae with Fibroscan\u2122 or Apri increases the percentage of well classified patients from 70-73% to 80-83% for significant fibrosis, but for cirrhosis a combination offers no improvement. For the 436 patients having all the blood tests, AUROC's ranged from 0.82 (Fibrometer\u00ae) to 0.75 (Hyaluronate) for significant fibrosis, and from 0.89 (Fibrometer\u00ae and Hepascore\u00ae) to 0.83 (FIB-4) for cirrhosis. Contrarily to blood tests, performance of Fibroscan\u2122 was reduced due to uninterpretable results. Fibrotest\u00ae, interpretable Fibroscan\u2122, Fibrometer\u00ae, and Hepascore\u00ae perform best and similarly for diagnosis of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis."}
{"id": "21216123", "title": "Real-time elastography with a novel quantitative technology for assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Real-time elastography with a novel quantitative technology for assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B. The accurate evaluation of liver fibrosis stage is important in determining the treatment strategy. The limitations of percutaneous liver biopsy as the gold standard are obvious for invasion. Real-time elastography with conventional ultrasound probes and a new quantitative technology for diffuse histological lesion is a novel approach for staging of liver fibrosis. This study aimed to evaluate the value of real-time tissue elastography with a new quantitative technology for the assessment of liver fibrosis stage. Real-time elastography was performed in 55 patients with liver fibrosis and chronic hepatitis B and in 20 healthy volunteers. Eleven parameters for every patient in colorcode image obtained from the real-time elastography were analyzed with principal components analysis. We analyzed the correlation between elasticity index and liver fibrosis stage and the accuracy of real-time elastography for liver fibrosis staging. Additionally, aspartate transaminase-to-platelet ratio index was also included in the analysis. The Spearman's correlation coefficient between the elasticity index and the histologic fibrosis stage was 0.81, which is highly significant (p<0.001). The areas under receiver operating characteristic curves indicating diagnostic accuracy were 0.93 (F\u2265F1, p<0.001) for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis, 0.92 (F\u2265F2, p<0.001), 0.84 (F\u2265F3, p<0.05) and 0.66 (F=F4, p>0.05), respectively. Real-time elastography with a new quantitative technology for diffuse histological lesion is a new and promising sonography-based noninvasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B."}
{"id": "22409854", "title": "[Validation of transient elastography (Fibroscan) in assessment of hepatic fibrosis in autoimmune hepatitis].", "content": "[Validation of transient elastography (Fibroscan) in assessment of hepatic fibrosis in autoimmune hepatitis]. To validate transient elastography (Fibroscan) in assessment of hepatic fibrosis in autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). Liver stiffness was assessed using Fibroscan in totally 30 patients with AIH. We compared the results of Fibroscan with the Scheuer fibrosis stage in liver biopsy in each patient. 4 patients were shown as liver fibrosis stage S0, 6 as S1, 5 as S2, 11 as S3 and 4 as S4. Failure of the Fibroscan measurement occurred in 1 case (3.3%) because of her increased body mass index (BMI). The stiffness of Fibroscan was significantly correlated with the liver biopsy fibrosis stage (r = 0.801, P less than 0.001). The liver stiffnesses between mild and moderate fibrosis (S0-2) and advanced fibrosis (S3-4) were significantly different (t = -3.937, P = 0.001). Transient elastography (Fibroscan) is a promising non-invasive method for detection of fibrosis in patients with autoimmune hepatitis. Its use for the follow up and management of these patients and should be evaluated further."}
{"id": "22176964", "title": "[Transient elastography accurately predicts the severity of disease in patients with chronic hepatitis B].", "content": "[Transient elastography accurately predicts the severity of disease in patients with chronic hepatitis B]. To evaluate the value of transient elastography (TE) for predicting severity of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). A total of 969 patients with CHB was enrolled and recruited for analysis, which had been received TE scan, including 258 patients of liver biopsy, and 117 patients of gastric endoscopy. A total of 35 patients was excluded from analysis due to TE failure or unreliable TE. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) was independently influenced by bilirubin, AST, liver fibrosis and inflammation, ultrasonic score and albumin. TE predicted Child-Pugh C, B/C, liver fibrosis S4, \u2265 S3 and \u2265 S2 with respective area under receiver operating characteristics curves (AUROC) 0.907 (95%CI 0.886 - 0.928), 0.920(95%CI 0.899 - 0.940), 0.871(95%CI 0.819 - 0.923), 0.852(95%CI 0.805 - 0.899) and 0.807(95%CI 0.749 - 0.865), respectively. While LSM < 32.2 kPa excluded Child-Pugh C with 99.4% probability, LSM \u2265 35.3 kPa determined Child-Pugh B/C with positive predictive value (PPV) 0.820. For compensated CHB, cut-offs of LSM 23.3, 15.2 and 10.8 kPa diagnosed cirrhosis, liver fibrosis \u2265 S3 and \u2265 S2 with positive likelihood ratio nearly 10.0 and PPV 0.692, 0.882 and 0.980, respectively; and cut-offs 8.8 kPa, 6.6 kPa excluded cirrhosis, liver fibrosis \u2265 S3 with negative likelihood ration nearly 0.1 and negative predictive value 0.977 and 0.903, respectively. Correlation coefficient between LSM and grades of esophageal varices was only 0.180, and AUROC for TE predicting EV was of no clinical value. TE relatively make accurate prediction in the severity of liver fibrosis and classification of Child-Pugh. Patients with LSM \u2265 10.8 kPa should be considered for receiving antivirus treatment."}
{"id": "22138940", "title": "Editorial: staging liver fibrosis in hepatitis C: a challenge for this decade.", "content": "Editorial: staging liver fibrosis in hepatitis C: a challenge for this decade. The limitations of and the invasive nature of liver biopsy has spurred extensive interest in the development of non-invasive tests to measure liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Clinically applicable non-invasive tests, including radiological studies, elastography, and serum markers, all of which perform extremely well in excluding significant disease and diagnosing cirrhosis. FibroScan and acoustic radiation force impulse elastography are two elastography-based tests that show promise. In this new era of increased cure rates with newly Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs and the availability of multiple non-invasive tests of liver fibrosis, we anticipate a decreasing need for liver biopsies in the management of chronic hepatitis C."}
{"id": "22129438", "title": "Comparison of accuracy of fibrosis degree classifications by liver biopsy and non-invasive tests in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Comparison of accuracy of fibrosis degree classifications by liver biopsy and non-invasive tests in chronic hepatitis C. Non-invasive tests have been constructed and evaluated mainly for binary diagnoses such as significant fibrosis. Recently, detailed fibrosis classifications for several non-invasive tests have been developed, but their accuracy has not been thoroughly evaluated in comparison to liver biopsy, especially in clinical practice and for Fibroscan. Therefore, the main aim of the present study was to evaluate the accuracy of detailed fibrosis classifications available for non-invasive tests and liver biopsy. The secondary aim was to validate these accuracies in independent populations. Four HCV populations provided 2,068 patients with liver biopsy, four different pathologist skill-levels and non-invasive tests. Results were expressed as percentages of correctly classified patients. In population #1 including 205 patients and comparing liver biopsy (reference: consensus reading by two experts) and blood tests, Metavir fibrosis (FM) stage accuracy was 64.4% in local pathologists vs. 82.2% (p < 10-3) in single expert pathologist. Significant discrepancy (\u2265 2FM vs reference histological result) rates were: Fibrotest: 17.2%, FibroMeter2G: 5.6%, local pathologists: 4.9%, FibroMeter3G: 0.5%, expert pathologist: 0% (p < 10-3). In population #2 including 1,056 patients and comparing blood tests, the discrepancy scores, taking into account the error magnitude, of detailed fibrosis classification were significantly different between FibroMeter2G (0.30 \u00b1 0.55) and FibroMeter3G (0.14 \u00b1 0.37, p < 10-3) or Fibrotest (0.84 \u00b1 0.80, p < 10-3). In population #3 (and #4) including 458 (359) patients and comparing blood tests and Fibroscan, accuracies of detailed fibrosis classification were, respectively: Fibrotest: 42.5% (33.5%), Fibroscan: 64.9% (50.7%), FibroMeter2G: 68.7% (68.2%), FibroMeter3G: 77.1% (83.4%), p < 10-3 (p < 10-3). Significant discrepancy (\u2265 2 FM) rates were, respectively: Fibrotest: 21.3% (22.2%), Fibroscan: 12.9% (12.3%), FibroMeter2G: 5.7% (6.0%), FibroMeter3G: 0.9% (0.9%), p < 10-3 (p < 10-3). The accuracy in detailed fibrosis classification of the best-performing blood test outperforms liver biopsy read by a local pathologist, i.e., in clinical practice; however, the classification precision is apparently lesser. This detailed classification accuracy is much lower than that of significant fibrosis with Fibroscan and even Fibrotest but higher with FibroMeter3G. FibroMeter classification accuracy was significantly higher than those of other non-invasive tests. Finally, for hepatitis C evaluation in clinical practice, fibrosis degree can be evaluated using an accurate blood test."}
{"id": "21987625", "title": "Is it better to use two elastographic methods for liver fibrosis assessment?", "content": "Is it better to use two elastographic methods for liver fibrosis assessment? To find out if by combining 2 ultrasound based elastographic methods: acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography and transient elastography (TE), we can improve the prediction of fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Our study included 197 patients with chronic hepatitis C. In each patient, we performed, in the same session, liver stiffness (LS) measurements by means of TE and ARFI, respectively, and liver biopsy (LB), assessed according to the Metavir score. 10 LS measurements were performed both by TE and ARFI; median values were calculated and expressed in kilopascals (kPa) and meters/second (m/s), respectively. Only TE and ARFI measurements with IQR < 30% and SR \u2265 60% were considered reliable. On LB 13 (6.6%) patients had F0, 32 (16.2%) had F1, 52 (26.4%) had F2, 47 (23.9%) had F3, and 53 (26.9%) had F4. A direct, strong correlation was found between TE measurements and fibrosis (r = 0.741), between ARFI and fibrosis (r = 0.730) and also between TE and ARFI (r = 0.675). For predicting significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2), for a cut-off of 6.7 kPa, TE had 77.5% sensitivity (Se) and 86.5% specificity (Sp) [area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) 0.87] and for a cut-off of 1.2 m/s, ARFI had 76.9% Se and 86.7% Sp (AUROC 0.84). For predicting cirrhosis (F = 4), for a cut-off of 12.2 kPa, TE had 96.2% Se and 89.6% Sp (AUROC 0.97) and for a cut-off of 1.8 m/s, ARFI had 90.4% Se and 85.6% Sp (AUROC 0.91). When both elastographic methods were taken into consideration, for predicting significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2), (TE \u2265 6.7 kPa and ARFI \u2265 1.2 m/s) we obtained 60.5% Se, 93.3% Sp, 96.8% positive predictive value (PPV), 41.4% negative predictive value (NPV) and 68% accuracy, while for predicting cirrhosis (TE \u2265 12.2 kPa and ARFI \u2265 1.8 m/s) we obtained 84.9% Se, 94.4% Sp, 84.9% PPV, 94.4% NPV and 91.8% accuracy. TE used in combination with ARFI is highly specific for predicting significant fibrosis; therefore when the two methods are concordant, liver biopsy can be avoided."}
{"id": "21971536", "title": "Comparison of transient elastography and acoustic radiation force impulse for non-invasive staging of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Comparison of transient elastography and acoustic radiation force impulse for non-invasive staging of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Transient elastography (TE) is adequate for a diagnosis of cirrhosis, but its accuracy for milder stages of fibrosis is much less satisfactory. The objective of this study was to compare the performance and the discordance rate of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) and TE with liver biopsy in a cohort of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients. One hundred thirty-nine consecutive patients with CHC were enrolled in two tertiary centers, and evaluated for histological (Metavir score) and biochemical features. All patients underwent TE and ARFI. TE was unreliable in nine patients (6.5%), while in no cases (0%) were ARFI invalid measurements recorded (P=0.029). By area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC), the best cutoff values for TE and ARFI for significant fibrosis (\u2265F2) were \u22656.5\u2009kPa (AUROC: 0.78) and \u22651.3\u2009m/s (AUROC: 0.86), respectively. For severe fibrosis (F3-F4), these cutoff values were 8.8\u2009kPa (AUROC: 0.83) for TE and 1.7\u2009m/s (AUROC: 0.94) for ARFI. For cirrhosis, TE had its best cutoff at \u226511\u2009kPa (AUROC: 0.80) and ARFI at \u22652.0\u2009m/s (AUROC: 0.89). By pairwise comparison of AUROC, ARFI was significantly more accurate than TE for a diagnosis of significant and severe fibrosis (P=0.024 and P=0.002, respectively), while this difference was only marginal for cirrhosis (P=0.09). By partial AUROC analysis, ARFI performance results significantly higher for all three stages of fibrosis. The average concordance rates of TE and ARFI vs. liver biopsy were 45.4 and 54.7%, respectively. By multivariate analysis, ARFI was not associated with alanine aminotransferase (ALT), body mass index, Metavir grade, and liver steatosis, while TE was significantly correlated with the ALT value (P=0.027). In a cohort of patients with CHC, ARFI imaging was more accurate than TE for the non-invasive staging of both significant and severe classes of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "21911887", "title": "Impact of Fibroscan on management of chronic viral hepatitis in clinical practice.", "content": "Impact of Fibroscan on management of chronic viral hepatitis in clinical practice. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using Fibroscan is an increasingly popular non-invasive method for quantifying liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. We aimed to explore potential impact of Fibroscan on clinical management. 133 patients with chronic hepatitis B (HBV, n = 75) or C (HCV, n = 58) underwent Fibroscan measurement. LSM results were compared with liver biopsy results, ultrasound, and APRI-scores, and the impact of LSM on clinical management was evaluated. LSM results indicated fibrosis stage F0-F1 in 84 patients (63%), F2 in 28 (21%), F3 in 8 (6%), and F4 in 13 patients (10%). Nineteen patients had liver biopsies within one year of LSM. In ten patients, LSM and biopsy showed the same fibrosis stage, in 8 there was one stage difference, and in 1 three stages difference. Ultrasound only showed cirrhosis in three patients, who all exhibited advanced cirrhosis at LSM. There was a statistically significant, but weak correlation between LSM results and APRI scores (r = 0.31, pvalue < 0.001). LSM results changed clinical management in 39% of patients (55 cases): in 15 patients antiviral treatment was indicated, in 21 patients surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma was indicated, and 19 successfully treated hepatitis C patients could be discharged from clinical follow-up in absence of severe fibrosis or cirrhosis. LSM appears to be a valuable non-invasive tool to manage patients with chronic viral hepatitis in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21894287", "title": "Liver biopsy in the era of elastography.", "content": "Liver biopsy in the era of elastography."}
{"id": "21893271", "title": "Noninvasive tools to assess hepatic fibrosis: ready for prime time?", "content": "Noninvasive tools to assess hepatic fibrosis: ready for prime time? Often regarded as the gold standard for fibrosis assessment, liver biopsy carries associated risks; however, it is less than ideal. The need for noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis for disease staging, prognosis, progression, and treatment response is clear. Advances in serologic testing and conventional imaging techniques have reduced the need for liver biopsy. Areas of research include defining cutoff values for specific diseases, further head-to-head comparisons of noninvasive modalities, examination of algorithms using both serum markers and imaging, and the cost-effectiveness of these various tests for diagnostic as well as screening purposes."}
{"id": "21822591", "title": "Reduction of liver stiffness by antiviral therapy in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Reduction of liver stiffness by antiviral therapy in chronic hepatitis B. Liver stiffness (LS) has been reported to correlate with fibrosis stage (F). The correlation between LS and fibrosis stage and the reduction of LS by antiviral therapy were examined in patients with hepatitis B infection. LS was measured by FibroScan in 212 patients infected with hepatitis B virus. Liver biopsies were done in 51 patients. Changes of LS were assessed in 29 patients treated with nucleotide or nucleoside analogs and 52 patients without antiviral therapy. LS was significantly correlated with fibrosis stage (\u03c1 = 0.686, P < 0.0001). The optimal cut-off values of LS were 7.1 kPa for F \u2265 2, 10.7 kPa for F \u2265 3, and 16.0 kPa for F4. LS was significantly reduced by antiviral therapy, from 12.9 (range 6.2-17.9) kPa to 6.6 (4.4-10.3) kPa measured at an interval of 512 (range 366-728) days (P < 0.0001). Eleven of 19 (58%) patients with baseline fibrosis stages of F3-4 deduced from LS had 2-point or greater reductions of deduced stage at the last LS measurement. The change ratio of hyaluronic acid (P = 0.0390) was associated with a 2-point or greater reduction of deduced fibrosis stage. Without antiviral therapy, LS tended to increase, increasing from 6.1 (range 3.9-8.5) kPa to 6.3 (range 4.4-9.7) kPa at an interval of 422 (range 358-709) days (P = 0.0682). LS was significantly correlated with fibrosis stage in patients with chronic hepatitis B. The reduction of LS by antiviral therapy was significantly correlated with the reduction of hyaluronic acid. Thus, we conclude that LS can be useful to assess the progression and regression of liver fibrosis stage noninvasively."}
{"id": "21799814", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement and biochemical markers in Senegalese chronic hepatitis B patients with normal ALT and high viral load.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement and biochemical markers in Senegalese chronic hepatitis B patients with normal ALT and high viral load. Despite the high prevalence of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) in Africa, few studies have been performed among African patients. We sought to evaluate liver stiffness measurement by FibroScan\u00ae (LSM) and two biochemical scores (FibroTest\u00ae, Fibrometer\u00ae) to diagnose liver fibrosis in Senegalese CHB patients with HBV plasma DNA load \u22653.2 log(10) IU/mL and normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values. LSM and liver fibrosis biochemical markers were performed on 225 consecutive HBV infected Senegalese patients with high viral load. Patients with an LSM range between 7 and 13 kPa underwent liver biopsy (LB). Two experienced liver pathologists performed histological grading using Metavir and Ishak scoring. 225 patients were evaluated (84% male) and LB was performed in 69 patients, showing F2 and F3 fibrosis in 17% and 10% respectively. In these patients with a 7-13 kPa range of LSM, accuracy for diagnosis of significant fibrosis according to LB was unsatisfactory for all non-invasive markers with AUROCs below 0.70. For patients with LSM values below 7 kPa, FibroTest\u00ae (FT), and Fibrometer\u00ae (FM) using the cut-offs recommended by the test promoters suggested a fibrosis in 18% of cases for FT (8% severe fibrosis) and 8% for FM. For patients with LSM values greater than 13 kPa, FT, FM suggested a possible fibrosis in 73% and 70%, respectively. In highly replicative HBV-infected African patients with normal ALT and LSM value below 13 kPa, FibroScan\u00ae, FibroTest\u00ae or Fibrometer\u00ae were unsuitable to predict the histological liver status of fibrosis."}
{"id": "21783442", "title": "Performance and utility of transient elastography and noninvasive markers of liver fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis.", "content": "Performance and utility of transient elastography and noninvasive markers of liver fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis. The performance of transient elastography in primary biliary cirrhosis has yet to be fully established. To assess: (1) the performance of transient elastography in identifying significant fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis by comparison with surrogate markers (AST platelet ratio index (APRI), FIB-4, Fibroindex, Forns, aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase ratio); (2) the correlation between liver stiffness and Mayo score prognostic index. One hundred and twenty patients with primary biliary cirrhosis were consecutively enrolled. The performance of each marker and of liver stiffness was compared with histological staging and METAVIR at time of liver biopsy. The area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) of liver stiffness were 0.87, 0.88, 0.99 for histological stage \u2265II, \u2265III and =IV and 0.89, 0.92, 0.99 for METAVIR \u22652, \u22653 and =4. Transient elastography alone proved better able in identifying any grade of fibrosis or cirrhosis than noninvasive markers. Combining each surrogate marker with transient elastography did not improve the area under ROC. Transient elastography correlated positively with the Mayo score (P<0.001). Logistic regression analysis showed that transient elastography was associated with an advanced fibrosis (P<0.001). Transient elastography proved a simple, reliable and useful method for assessing liver fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis, whereas noninvasive surrogate markers proved unsatisfactory in predicting significant fibrosis."}
{"id": "21779759", "title": "Evaluation of liver fibrosis by transient elastography using acoustic radiation force impulse: comparison with Fibroscan(\u00ae).", "content": "Evaluation of liver fibrosis by transient elastography using acoustic radiation force impulse: comparison with Fibroscan(\u00ae). Accurate evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver damage is required to determine the appropriate treatment. Various approaches, including laboratory tests and transient elastography, have been used to evaluate liver fibrosis. Recently, transient elastography with acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) has been developed and applied with conventional ultrasonography. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical utility of transient elastography with ARFI and to compare the results with this method and those of the Fibroscan(\u00ae) procedure. One hundred and thirty-one patients with liver damage, who underwent liver biopsy at our department, were enrolled prospectively in this study. Elastography with ARFI (applied with ACUSON S2000(\u00ae)), and Fibroscan(\u00ae) was performed at the same time as liver biopsy. These measurements were compared with histological findings in liver biopsy specimens, and measurement accuracy was evaluated by receiver-operating characteristic analysis. Elastography values with both procedures were significantly correlated with the stages of liver fibrosis and there was little difference in the results obtained using the 2 procedures. The accuracy of differential diagnosis between no fibrosis at F0 and more than F1 stage was insufficient with ARFI, but this procedure was sufficient for diagnosing advanced fibrosis. The accuracy of ARFI was almost equivalent to that of the Fibroscan(\u00ae) method. Moreover, both ARFI and Fibroscan(\u00ae) values increased in proportion to the severity of hepatic inflammation when fibrosis stage is low, but not in proportion to the severity of steatosis. Transient elastography with ARFI is simple, non-invasive and useful for diagnosing the stage of fibrosis in chronic liver disease. The utility of ARFI was almost equivalent to that of the Fibroscan(\u00ae) method."}
{"id": "21680667", "title": "Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV-infected individuals.", "content": "Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV-infected individuals. Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension (NCPH) has been associated with didanosine (ddI) exposure. We aimed to determine the number of individuals with NCPH within our cohort and define their characteristics. We identified individuals within our cohort with NCPH and performed a retrospective case note review. Cumulative antiretroviral therapy (ART) use was calculated and a statistical analysis performed to compare exposure to the rest of the clinic cohort for the same time period. Where available, data was collated on FibroScan\u00ae, echocardiography and coagulation profile. Seventeen patients were identified. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding was the most common presenting feature. Liver biopsy showed mild portal or periportal fibrosis in 13 (81%) and four with features of nodular regenerative hyperplasia. There was significantly greater exposure to ddl in this group (59.5 months) compared to the rest of the HIV cohort (21.1 months) P = <0.001. Eleven subjects has a liver elastography performed, six (55%) had a result greater than 9.6 kPa (consistent with greater than F2 disease by Metavir scoring). Echocardiography was performed in seven patients: four met criteria for pulmonary hypertension. This is consistent with other cohorts demonstrating an association between the didanosine exposure and NCPH. Our data also suggest an increased risk of pulmonary hypertension."}
{"id": "21678114", "title": "Transient elastography for assessment of fibrosis in paediatric liver disease.", "content": "Transient elastography for assessment of fibrosis in paediatric liver disease. The prognosis and management of chronic liver diseases in children largely depend on the extent and progression of liver fibrosis, which is often the most important predictor of disease outcome, and thus influences the indication for potential therapy. Unfortunately, liver biopsy continues to be the gold standard for the staging and grading of fibrosis. Liver biopsy is an invasive and painful technique with several limitations. These limitations have led to the development of alternative noninvasive methods for the accurate assessment of fibrosis and for the maintenance of an acceptable risk/benefit ratio. In the last decades, transient elastography (TE) has received increasing consideration as a means of evaluating disease progression in paediatric chronic liver disease. TE is an accurate and reproducible methodology for identifying subjects without fibrosis or significant fibrosis, or with advanced fibrosis. In this review, we provide an outline of liver fibrosis in paediatric liver diseases, including fibrogenesis, and noninvasive techniques for the diagnosis and follow-up of fibrosis, and then focus on the characteristics of TE and on its strength in the assessment of liver fibrosis, paying particular attention to studies conducted in children."}
{"id": "21670074", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography (FibroScan) versus the aspartate transaminase to platelet ratio index in assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: the role in primary care setting.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography (FibroScan) versus the aspartate transaminase to platelet ratio index in assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: the role in primary care setting. A non-invasive method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness with transient elastography (TE) has been recently introduced. The role of TE among chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients in starting antiviral therapy in the primary care setting is still controversial because of its high cost. The AST to platelet ratio index (APRI) could be a much cheaper alternative. This study compares the diagnostic accuracy of TE and APRI in assessing liver fibrosis in CHB patients. A cross-sectional study in CHB patients intending to start antiviral treatment. Liver fibrosis was staged according to the METAVIR scoring system. Liver stiffness was measured by TE performed on the same day with liver biopsy, while APRI was calculated as follows: APRI=(AST/upper limit of normal)\u00d7100/platelet count (10(9)/l). Cutoff levels of liver stiffness and APRI were calculated by using the receiver operating characteristic curve to detect significant liver fibrosis, defined as fibrosis stage F2 or more. 117 patients were enrolled in the study; their mean age was 40.6\u00b110.97 years. The median liver stiffness was 5.9 kPa (2.5-48 kPa) and the median APRI was 0.239 (0.09-2.73). The cutoff level of liver stiffness was 5.85 kPa for \u2265F2 with an AUC of 0.614, 60.3% sensitivity, 63.6% specificity, 73.3% PPV, 49.1% NPV and a LR+ of 1.66. The APRI cutoff level was 0.235 for F\u22652 with an AUC of 0.693, 64.4% sensitivity, 70.5% specificity, 78.3% PPV, 54.4% NPV and a LR+ of 2.18. Both methods gave comparable diagnostic accuracy. APRI is a useful marker to screen liver fibrosis in the primary care setting when TE is not available."}
{"id": "21661428", "title": "Changes in liver stiffness measurement during antiviral therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Changes in liver stiffness measurement during antiviral therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B. The usefulness of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) for monitoring changes in fibrosis and inflammation in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients receiving antiviral therapy is unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in liver stiffness and correlate them with changes in serological markers and histology in CHB patients receiving entecavir. The study included 38 patients with CHB and 24 cirrhotic patients with CHB. All patients received entecavir for over 12 months. Liver stiffness was measured by transient elastography at baseline and after 48wks of therapy. Liver biopsy was performed on 15 patients at baseline and during therapy. Among 62 treated patients, 51 (82.2%) achieved HBV DNA <50 copies/mL and 43 (69%) achieved alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization at 48wks. The median liver stiffness value at baseline was 15.1 kPa (5.6-75.0) and decreased significantly to 8.8kPa (3.0-33.8) after 48wks. A decrease in liver stiffness value during therapy correlated significantly with decreases in albumin (r=-0.357, p=0.004), bilirubin (r=0.342, p=0.007), ALT (r=0.319, p=0.012), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (r=0.353, p=0.005) concentrations. Decreases in liver stiffness values correlated significantly with improvement in necroinflammatory scores. We suggest that LSM can reflect the changes of necroinflammation in patients with chronic hepatitis B receiving antiviral therapy."}
{"id": "21655540", "title": "Factors that influence the correlation of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI), elastography with liver fibrosis.", "content": "Factors that influence the correlation of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI), elastography with liver fibrosis. To establish the influence of different factors on the correlation between liver stiffness (LS) measurements by ARFI and liver fibrosis, evaluated by liver biopsy (LB). We assessed the following factors: the success rate (SR) and interquartile range (IQR) interval, the place where ARFI was performed, liver steatosis, the quality of the specimen obtained by LB. We studied 471 patients: 82 with LB, 82 healthy volunteers and 307 with cirrhosis. We performed 10 valid ARFI measurements, a median value was calculated, expressed in meters/second. Valid measurements were not obtained in 11 patients. There was a direct, strong, correlation (r=0.694) between ARFI and fibrosis (p<0.0001). There were no statistically significant differences between the mean ARFI values obtained in segments V vs. VIII (p=0.89). Considering the IQR and SR, the correlation of ARFI with fibrosis was: for IQR<30% and SR \u2265 60%: r=0.722 and for IQR>30% and/or SR \u2264 60%: r=0.268 (p=0.0001). The quality of the liver specimen (2-3 cm long vs. >3 cm) did not influence the correlation of ARFI with fibrosis. To obtain the best correlation between ARFI and fibrosis, IQR must be <30% and SR \u2265 60%. These technical parameters must be introduced to improve the ARFI value for LS evaluation."}
{"id": "21631559", "title": "Dual cut-off transient elastography to assess liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: a cohort study with internal validation.", "content": "Dual cut-off transient elastography to assess liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: a cohort study with internal validation. Transient elastography has gained popularity to stage liver fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis, however, diagnostic cut-offs for severe fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B are poorly defined. To evaluate an algorithm with two distinct cut-offs for positive and negative prediction of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B patients. Two cohorts of treatment-na\u00efve patients with chronic hepatitis B (125 training and 92 validations) were consecutively and concurrently examined by percutaneous liver biopsy and transient elastography. Fibrosis was staged by Metavir (significant fibrosis = F \u2265 2; cirrhosis = F4) in \u2265 2 cm long liver tissue cores. A >13.1 kPa positive and a \u2264 9.4 kPa negative cut-off for cirrhosis had a >90% sensitivity and specificity, with an accuracy of 94%. The corresponding cut-offs for F \u2265 2 were >9.4 and \u2264 6.2 kPa, thus classifying 56% of patients with an overall accuracy of 90%. In the validation cohort, F4 and F \u2265 2 were predicted by the above transient elastography cut-offs with an overall accuracy >90%. In 165 patients with higher than upper limit of normal transaminase activity the dual cut-off algorithm of transient elastography was as accurate as in the 52 patients with normal alanine aminotransferase values in the prediction and exclusion of cirrhosis, only. A dual cut-off algorithm allowed for correctly classifying both significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in the majority of the patients with chronic hepatitis B, independent of alanine aminotransferase values, thus reducing the need for liver biopsy investigations."}
{"id": "21623677", "title": "Comparison of non-invasive assessment to diagnose liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B and C patients.", "content": "Comparison of non-invasive assessment to diagnose liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B and C patients. Chronic viral hepatitis B and C cause liver fibrosis, leading to cirrhosis. Fibrosis assessment is essential to establish prognosis and treatment indication. We compared seven non-invasive tests, separately and in combination, in chronic hepatitis patients to detect early stages of fibrosis according to the Metavir score in liver biopsy. Galactose and methacetin breath tests (GBT and MBT), biomarkers (hyaluronic acid (HA), aspartate aminotransferase platelet ratio index (APRI), FibroTest, and Fib-4) and transient elastography (TE) were evaluated in 89 patients. Additionally, 31 healthy controls were included for evaluation of breath tests and biomarkers. Serum markers (HA, APRI, FibroTest, and Fib-4) and elastography significantly distinguished non-cirrhotic (F0123) from cirrhotic (F4) patients (p < 0.001, p = 0.015, p < 0.001, p = 0.005, p = 0.006, respectively). GBT, HA, APRI, FibroTest, Fib-4, and TE detected F01 from F234 (p = 0.04, p = 0.011, p = 0.009, p < 0.001, p < 0.001, and p < 0.001, respectively). A combination of different tests (TE, HA, and FibroTest) improved the performance statistically, area under the curve (AUC) = 0.87 for F234, 0.92 for F34, and 0.90 for F4. HA, APRI, FibroTest, Fib-4, and TE reliably distinguish non-cirrhotic and cirrhotic patients. Except for MBT, all tests discriminate between mild and moderate fibrosis. As single tests: FibroTest, Fib-4, and TE were the most accurate for detecting early fibrosis; combining different non-invasive tests increased the accuracy for detection of liver fibrosis to such an extent and thus might be acceptable to replace liver biopsy."}
{"id": "21608066", "title": "Portal hypertension correlates with splenic stiffness as measured with MR elastography.", "content": "Portal hypertension correlates with splenic stiffness as measured with MR elastography. To investigate the correlation between MR elastography (MRE) assessed spleen stiffness and direct portal vein pressure gradient (D-HVPG) measurements in a large animal model of portal hypertension. Cholestatic liver disease was established in adult canines by common bile duct ligation. A spin echo based echo planar imaging (EPI) MRE sequence was used to acquire three-dimensional/three axis (3D/3-axis) abdominal MRE data at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. Liver biopsies, blood samples, and D-HVPG measurements were obtained simultaneously. Animals developed portal hypertension (D-HVPG: 11.0 \u00b1 5.1 mmHg) with only F1 fibrosis after 4 weeks. F3 fibrosis was confirmed after 8 weeks despite no further rise in portal hypertension (D-HVPG: 11.3 \u00b1 3.2 mmHg). Mean stiffnesses of the spleen increased over two-fold from baseline (1.72 \u00b1 0.33 kPa) to 4 weeks (3.54 \u00b1 0.31 kPa), and stabilized at 8 weeks (3.38 \u00b1 0.06 kPa) in a pattern consistent with changes in portal pressure. A positive correlation was observed between spleen stiffness and D-HVPG (r(2) = 0.86; P < 0.01). These findings indicate a temporal relationship between portal hypertension and the development of liver fibrosis in a large animal model of cholestatic liver disease. The observed direct correlation between spleen stiffness and D-HVPG suggest a noninvasive MRE approach to diagnose and screen for portal hypertension."}
{"id": "21586228", "title": "[Accuracy of FibroScan for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis influenced by serum alanine aminotransferase levels in patients with chronic hepatitis B].", "content": "[Accuracy of FibroScan for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis influenced by serum alanine aminotransferase levels in patients with chronic hepatitis B]. To analyze whether or not the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) with transient elastography (FibroScan) for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis influenced by serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels in patients with chronic hepatitis B. 213 consecutive CHB patients who underwent liver biopsy and LSM were enrolled and divided into three groups by the criteria of ALT < 1 x ULN, 1 x ULN \u2264 ALT < 2 x ULN and ALT \u2265 2 x ULN. The areas under the receiver operating curve(AUC) were analyzed and the accuracy of FibroScan for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis were detected in the three groups. Significant correlation existed between the stages of liver fibrosis and LSM (rs = 0.773, 0.889 and 0.412, P < 0.05). AUCs of LSM in all patients for significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2, F0-1 vs F2-4) and cirrhosis (F = 4, F0-3 vs F4) were 0.916 and 0.971 respectively. The accuracy of diagnosis for significant fibrosis and cirrhosis were 84.0% and 93.4% respectively. AUCs of LSM in ALT < 1 x ULN, 1 x ULN \u2264 ALT < 2 x ULN and ALT \u2265 2 x ULN groups for significant fibrosis were 0.939, 0.967 and 0.687 respectively. The sensitivity of the three groups was 90.0%, 89.7% and 47.8% respectively. The accuracies of the three groups was 90.5%, 93.9% and 68.4% respectively. The AUC, sensitivity and accuracy of ALT \u2265 2 x ULN group for significant fibrosis were significantly lower than the other two groups. AUCs of LSM in three groups for cirrhosis were 0.970, 0.985 and 0.952 respectively. The sensitivities of the three groups were 93.8%, 100% and 100% respectively. The accuracies of the three groups were 88.9%, 95.9% and 92.1% respectively. The AUCs, sensitivity and accuracy for cirrhosis of the three groups didn't change with elevated ALT. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a reasonable noninvasive tool to diagnose significant fibrosis, especially liver cirrhosis in CHB patients. The accuracy of FibroScan for diagnosis of liver cirrhosis may not be influenced by elevated ALT. While in ALT \u2265 2 x ULN group, the accuracy of FibroScan for diagnosis of significant fibrosis was significantly lower as compared to the ALT \u2264 2 x ULN groups."}
{"id": "21565752", "title": "[New non-invasive tool for assessment of liver fibrosis: transient elastography].", "content": "[New non-invasive tool for assessment of liver fibrosis: transient elastography]. Formation of connective tissue causing liver fibrosis is the common trait of chronic liver diseases. The \"gold-standard\" of the evaluation of liver fibrosis is liver biopsy, but it is an invasive, painful procedure, and carries a significant, although small risk of life-threatening complications. It may have contraindications, and it is certainly not the ideal procedure for serially repeated assessment of disease progression. A new, non-invasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness is the transient elastography. The velocity of the propagation of a shear wave is measured by ultrasound. The procedure is painless, rapid, and does not need any preparation. So far, transient elastography has been mostly validated in chronic hepatitis C, but it is applicable in liver diseases with other etiologies. The diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography increases with stage of fibrosis, and is more accurate in advanced fibrosis (F\u22652, Metavir score) and in cirrhosis. Indication of antiviral therapy for chronic viral hepatitis B and C are the main field of the application of the transient elastography, and it is also a useful tool for follow-up the disease progression. It is applicable for early, non-invasive detection of graft damage after liver transplantation. Evaluation of liver damage, the stage of liver fibrosis by transient elastography may have an important role in the decision before surgery, or application of potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Histological examination of the liver tissue is not substituted in every case by transient elastography, but liver biopsy is supplanted by measuring liver stiffness for evaluation of liver fibrosis in many cases."}
{"id": "21535322", "title": "Liver stiffness measurements to assess progression of fibrosis in HCV-infected patients with inherited bleeding disorders.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurements to assess progression of fibrosis in HCV-infected patients with inherited bleeding disorders. Hepatitis C is a major co-morbidity in patients with inherited bleeding disorders, leading to progressive liver fibrosis and eventually cirrhosis. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) is a non-invasive way of assessing the extent of liver fibrosis. This article describes our experience with serial LSM to assess prospectively progression of fibrosis in a cohort of patients with inherited bleeding disorders and chronic hepatitis C. A total of 84 patients underwent serial LSMs, with a median interval of 3.7 years. The change in LSM results over time was assessed. Overall, there was no significant difference between the median results of LSM 1 and LSM 2. The median result of LSM 2 was low (6.6 kPa), after a median duration of infection of 37 years. On the individual level, deterioration of LSM results of more than 2 kPa was seen in 13 patients (16%), 44 patients (52%) remained stable and 27 patients (32%) showed improvement of LSM results of more than 2 kPa. These results are comparable with those of paired liver biopsy studies. LSM appears to be a good alternative for liver biopsies in patients with hepatitis C and inherited bleeding disorders, although the interpretation of the unexpected improvement we found in some of our patients is not straightforward. LSMs will be repeated in our patient population in a few years to be able to better assess the value of serial LSM."}
{"id": "21517974", "title": "Non-invasive assessment of fibrosis in liver grafts due to hepatitis C virus recurrence.", "content": "Non-invasive assessment of fibrosis in liver grafts due to hepatitis C virus recurrence. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has become the most common indication for liver transplantation in the United States and Europe. Recurrence of HCV is universal in all liver graft recipients, but the natural history of the disease is variable with some patients displaying slowly progressive liver injury, while approximately 30% become cirrhotic within five yr of surgery. Currently, liver biopsy is the reference standard to assess liver injury in the post-transplant setting. But biopsy is associated with complications such as bleeding and pain, as well as the risk of sampling error and discordance in reporting between histopathologists. Thus, as in the pre-transplant setting, there is increasing attention being drawn to the use of non-invasive tests of liver fibrosis. This review examines the role of non-invasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis in the post-transplant setting including simple tests such as aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index, the Benlloch formula, London Transplant Centre score, and finally transient elastography. The authors assess the respective advantages and disadvantages of the tests and consider how non-invasive tests of liver fibrosis can be utilized in the future management of post-transplant HCV infection."}
{"id": "21517924", "title": "Reliability of liver stiffness measurement in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: the effects of body mass index.", "content": "Reliability of liver stiffness measurement in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: the effects of body mass index. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography (TE) is used to stage fibrosis in patients with liver disease, diagnostic reliability and the factors affecting its performance in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are incompletely understood. To assess LSM. Consecutive NAFLD patients (n = 169), assessed by liver biopsy (Kleiner score), anthropometrical, biochemical and metabolic features, underwent LSM using TE with standard M probe. Liver stiffness measurement was not reliable in 23 patients (14%) due to obesity. Among patients with a reliable TE, a LSM value >7.25 kPa was the best cut-off for predicting significant fibrosis at biopsy (AUC 0.794); however, this cut-off still failed to rule out F2-F4 fibrosis in 31% (false-negative rate) or rule in F3-F4 in 29% (false-positive rate). Similarly a LSM value >8.75 kPa was the best cut-off for severe fibrosis (F3-F4) (AUC 0.870), with a rate of false-negatives 24% and of false-positives 2%. Body mass index was the major determinant of these diagnostic errors in predicting significant and severe fibrosis both by overestimating or underestimating the stage of fibrosis. In NAFLD patients, even when liver stiffness measurement is feasible, high BMI values negatively affect the diagnostic reliability. Improved performance of transient elastography could be obtained using specifically designed probes."}
{"id": "21497746", "title": "Invasive and non-invasive methods for the assessment of fibrosis and disease progression in chronic liver disease.", "content": "Invasive and non-invasive methods for the assessment of fibrosis and disease progression in chronic liver disease. Chronic liver diseases represent a major public health problem, accounting for significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. Their prognosis and management greatly depend on the amount and progression of liver fibrosis with the risk of developing cirrhosis. Liver biopsy, traditionally considered as the reference standard for staging of fibrosis, has been challenged over the past decade by the development of novel non invasive methodologies. These methods rely on two distinct but complementary approaches: i) a 'biological' approach based on the dosage of serum biomarkers of fibrosis; ii) a 'physical' approach based on the measurement of liver stiffness using transient elastography (TE). Non invasive methods have been initially studied and validated in chronic hepatitis C but are now increasingly used in other chronic liver diseases, resulting in a significant decrease in the need for liver biopsy. However, they will likely not completely abolish the need for liver biopsy and they should rather be employed as an integrated system with liver biopsy. This review is aimed at discussing the advantages and inconveniences of non invasive methods in comparison with liver biopsy for the management of patients with chronic liver diseases."}
{"id": "21468012", "title": "A new combination of blood test and fibroscan for accurate non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis stages in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "A new combination of blood test and fibroscan for accurate non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis stages in chronic hepatitis C. Precise evaluation of the level of liver fibrosis is recommended in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Blood fibrosis tests and Fibroscan are now widely used for the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis. Detailed fibrosis stage classifications have been developed to provide an estimation of the liver fibrosis stage from the results of these non-invasive tests. Our aim was to develop a new and more accurate fibrosis stage classification by using new scores combining non-invasive fibrosis tests. In all, 729 patients with CHC (exploratory set: 349; validation set: 380) had liver biopsy for Metavir fibrosis (F) staging, and 6 fibrosis tests: Fibroscan, Fibrotest, FibroMeter, Hepascore, FIB-4, APRI. Exploratory set: Fibroscan and FibroMeter were the independent predictors of different diagnostic targets of liver fibrosis. New fibrosis indexes combining FibroMeter and Fibroscan were thus developed for the diagnosis of clinically significant fibrosis (CSF-index) or severe fibrosis (SF-index). The association of CSF- and SF-indexes provided a new fibrosis stage classification (CSF/SF classification): F0/1, F1/2, F2 \u00b1 1, F2/3, F3 \u00b1 1, F4. Validation set: CSF/SF classification had a high diagnostic accuracy (85.8% well-classified patients), significantly higher than the diagnostic accuracies of FibroMeter (69.7%, P<0.001), Fibroscan (63.3%, P<0.001), or Fibrotest (43.9%, P<0.001) classifications. The association of new fibrosis indexes combining FibroMeter and Fibroscan provides a new fibrosis stage classification. This classification is significantly more accurate than Fibrotest, FibroMeter, or Fibroscan classifications, and improves the accuracy of the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis stages to 86% without any liver biopsy."}
{"id": "21460032", "title": "Early detection of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by using MR elastography.", "content": "Early detection of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by using MR elastography. To investigate the diagnostic accuracy (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUROC]) of magnetic resonance (MR) elastography for the early detection of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) among patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). An institutional review board-approved and HIPAA-compliant retrospective study was conducted in 58 NAFLD patients. Informed consent was waived by the review board. Hepatic stiffness, relative fat fraction, inflammation grade, and fibrosis stage were assessed from MR elastography, in-phase and out-of-phase gradient-echo imaging, and liver biopsy histopathologic review, respectively. Pairwise t testing, receiver operating characteristic analysis, and partial correlation analysis were performed. The mean hepatic stiffness for patients with simple steatosis (2.51 kPa) was less (P = .028) than that for patients with inflammation but no fibrosis (3.24 kPa). The mean hepatic stiffness for patients with inflammation but no fibrosis was less (P = .030) than that for patients with hepatic fibrosis (4.16 kPa). Liver stiffness had high accuracy (AUROC = 0.93) for discriminating patients with NASH from those with simple steatosis, with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity 73% by using a threshold of 2.74 kPa. In patients with NAFLD, hepatic stiffness measurements with MR elastography can help identify individuals with steatohepatitis, even before the onset of fibrosis; NAFLD patients with inflammation but no fibrosis have greater liver stiffness than those with simple steatosis and lower mean stiffness than those with fibrosis."}
{"id": "21452541", "title": "[Assessment and reversibility of liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis].", "content": "[Assessment and reversibility of liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis]. The evaluation of liver fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis is of paramount importance since secondary complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma, occur in patients with extensive fibrosis and cirrhosis. Clinical examination and some simple biological and morphological tests represent the first step to appraise liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis. Biochemical (Fibrotest, Hepascore, Fibrometre) or morphological (Fibroscan) methods have emerged over the past ten years to avoid--in more than half of patients--the systematic use of the liver biopsy to appraise liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C virus infection. The liver biopsy remains however essential in many situations--especially for demonstrating regression of cirrhosis after viral inactivation. Regression of cirrhosis is now a recognized concept, thanks to the next generation of antiviral treatments. Today, the inactivation of viral hepatitis is an achievable primary goal and regression of cirrhosis becomes a reasonable secondary goal."}
{"id": "21447865", "title": "On-treatment monitoring of liver fibrosis with transient elastography in chronic hepatitis B patients.", "content": "On-treatment monitoring of liver fibrosis with transient elastography in chronic hepatitis B patients. The performance of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) to monitor the changes in the severity of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients on antiviral treatment is uncertain. We prospectively studied CHB patients undergoing paired liver biopsy and transient elastography before and at week 48 of antiviral treatment. Based on our previously reported LSM algorithm, advanced liver fibrosis (F3-4) could be excluded or confirmed at >90% confidence. A total of 71 CHB patients were studied. The median alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level decreased from 99I U/l to 33I U/l, and the median LSM decreased from 8.8 kPa to 6.6 kPa, respectively, from baseline to week 48. Overall, 17 and 11 patients had regression and progression of histological fibrosis, respectively. Areas under the receiver operating characteristics curves of the LSM algorithm at baseline and week 48 for advanced fibrosis were 0.80 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.69-0.90) and 0.78 (95% CI 0.64-0.92), respectively. The sensitivity of LSM algorithm to exclude advanced fibrosis was 100% at baseline and 75% at week 48. The specificity of the LSM algorithm to diagnose advanced fibrosis was 84% at baseline and 91% at week 48. Overall, 11/28 (39%) patients with LSM that decreased by >30%, 28/41 (68%) of patients with LSM that changed within 30% and 1/2 (50%) patients with LSM that increased by >30% had decreased, unchanged and increased histological fibrosis stages, respectively. LSM could predict advanced fibrosis during antiviral therapy according to the ALT-based algorithm. Decrease in absolute LSM value, which could be related to ALT normalization, was unreliable to indicate regression of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "21439919", "title": "Clinical feasibility of liver elastography by acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI).", "content": "Clinical feasibility of liver elastography by acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI). Transient elastography is increasingly used for assessment of liver fibrosis. Acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) is a new technology to perform liver elastography. We evaluated the clinical feasibility, validity and accuracy of the ARFI method and compared it to Fibroscan(\u00ae) and liver histology. Ultrasonographic elastography of the liver using ARFI was performed in 29 patients with liver cirrhosis, 70 patients with liver disease and 23 healthy controls. ARFI was feasible in all patients providing a mean propagation velocity of 1.65\u00b10.93 m/s. ARFI results of the right and left liver lobes were comparable (p<0.001). In cirrhotic patients, ARFI gave significantly higher values than in the other patients (p<0.001). Rate of invalid measurements was lower in ARFI than in Fibroscan(\u00ae) (p<0.04). Both elastography methods were highly correlated to each other (p<0.001). Furthermore, ARFI correlated to histological grading of liver fibrosis (p<0.001) and to inflammatory activity (p<0.05). Liver steatosis had no statistical influence on ARFI results (p=0.2) in contrast to Fibroscan(\u00ae) (p<0.05). The new ultrasonographic method of ARFI elastography allows valid, accurate and flexible evaluation of liver stiffness. It seems more feasible in patients with liver cirrhosis than Fibroscan(\u00ae). ARFI elastography of the left liver lobe is also possible. Liver steatosis does not seem to influence ARFI elastography."}
{"id": "21435119", "title": "Previously unrecognized advanced liver disease unveiled by transient elastography in patients with Haemophilia and chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Previously unrecognized advanced liver disease unveiled by transient elastography in patients with Haemophilia and chronic hepatitis C. Before the introduction of viral inactivation procedures and viral screening of plasma-products, haemophiliacs were at high risk of infection with HCV. Those who acquired HCV infection in the 1980s, and are still alive today, may have developed significant liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. However, liver biopsy has not routinely been utilized in the evaluation of haemophiliacs with HCV in Denmark. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of significant fibrosis/cirrhosis among haemophiliacs as evaluated by transient elastography (TE). Cross-sectional investigation of adult patients with haemophilia A or B. TE with liver stiffness measurements (LSM) \u2265 8 kPa were repeated after 4-6 weeks. Significant fibrosis and cirrhosis was defined as measurements \u2265 8 kPa or \u2265 12 kPa respectively. Among 307 patients with haemophilia A or B registered at the two Haemophilia centres, 141(46%) participate in this study. Forty (28.4%) had chronic hepatitis C, 33 (23.4%) past hepatitis C and 68 (48.2%) had never been infected, at screening LSM \u2265 8 kPa were found in 45.7%, 24.7% and 4.6% respectively. Among patients with chronic hepatitis C significant fibrosis was confirmed in 17.1% and cirrhosis in 2.9% by repeated LSM \u2265 8 and \u2265 12 kPa respectively. The median TE-value in never HCV-infected haemophiliacs was comparable with what has been found in healthy non-haemophiliacs. In Danish haemophiliacs where liver biopsy has not routinely been used for assessing severity of liver fibrosis, LSM identified advanced liver disease in one-fifth of cases that had not been recognized during clinical follow-up."}
{"id": "21399926", "title": "Prospective evaluation of FibroScan for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis compared with liver biopsy/AST platelet ratio index and FIB-4 in patients with chronic HBV infection.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of FibroScan for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis compared with liver biopsy/AST platelet ratio index and FIB-4 in patients with chronic HBV infection. The FibroScan (FS), the aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI), and the FIB-4 index are simple and inexpensive methods to detect liver fibrosis. The primary objective was to evaluate the performance of FS for the noninvasive diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in Western Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection compared with APRI and FIB-4; the secondary objective was to determine liver stiffness measurement (LSM) cutoff values for the noninvasive diagnosis of significant fibrosis and liver cirrhosis. Overall, 175 consecutive patients with chronic HBV infection, successful liver biopsy, and alanine aminotransferase levels \u22642\u00d7 ULN were prospectively studied. Liver fibrosis was graded by an independent pathologist using the METAVIR (F0-F4) classification. APRI and FIB-4 were calculated from laboratory data. The area under receiver operating characteristics curves (AUROC) for LSM for significant fibrosis (METAVIR F2-3) and cirrhosis (F4) was 0.95 (95% confidence interval, 0.91-0.98) and 0.98 (0.96-0.99), respectively. For the detection of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis, the AUROC of APRI were 0.81 (0.74-0.87) and 0.83 (0.77-0.90); the AUROC of FIB-4 were 0.86 (0.80-0.91) and 0.77 (0.68-0.85). FS optimal cutoff values for the identification of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis were 7.9 and 13.8 kPa, respectively. FS is a reliable predictor of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in Western Chinese patients with chronic HBV infection, and is superior to APRI and FIB-4. FS cutoff values could be considered as clinical reference for detecting significant fibrosis and cirrhosis."}
{"id": "21393486", "title": "Transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in hemodialysis chronic hepatitis C patients.", "content": "Transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in hemodialysis chronic hepatitis C patients. Although percutaneous liver biopsy (PLB) is the gold standard for staging hepatic fibrosis in hemodialysis patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) before renal transplantation or antiviral therapy, concerns exist about serious postbiopsy complications. Using transient elastography (TE, Fibroscan(\u00ae)) to predict the severity of hepatic fibrosis has not been prospectively evaluated in these patients. A total of 284 hemodialysis patients with CHC were enrolled. TE and aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI) were performed before PLB. The severity of hepatic fibrosis was staged by METAVIR scores ranging from F0 to F4. Receiver operating characteristic curves were used to assess the diagnostic accuracy of TE and APRI, taking PLB as the reference standard. The areas under curves of TE were higher than those of APRI in predicting patients with significant hepatic fibrosis (\u2265F2) (0.96 versus 0.84, P<0.001), those with advanced hepatic fibrosis (\u2265F3) (0.98 versus 0.93, P=0.04), and those with cirrhosis (F4) (0.99 versus 0.92, P=0.13). Choosing optimized liver stiffness measurements of 5.3, 8.3, and 9.2 kPa had high sensitivity (93-100%) and specificity (88-99%), and 87, 97, and 93% of the patients with a fibrosis stage of \u2265F2, \u2265F3, and F4 were correctly diagnosed without PLB, respectively. TE is superior to APRI in assessing the severity of hepatic fibrosis and can substantially decrease the need of staging PLB in hemodialysis patients with CHC."}
{"id": "21376047", "title": "Noninvasive tests for fibrosis and liver stiffness predict 5-year outcomes of patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Noninvasive tests for fibrosis and liver stiffness predict 5-year outcomes of patients with chronic hepatitis C. Liver stiffness can be measured noninvasively to assess liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. In patients with chronic liver diseases, level of fibrosis predicts liver-related complications and survival. We evaluated the abilities of liver stiffness, results from noninvasive tests for fibrosis, and liver biopsy analyses to predict overall survival or survival without liver-related death with a 5-year period. In a consecutive cohort of 1457 patients with chronic hepatitis C, we assessed fibrosis and, on the same day, liver stiffness, performed noninvasive tests of fibrosis (FibroTest, the aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index, FIB-4), and analyzed liver biopsy samples. We analyzed data on death, liver-related death, and liver transplantation collected during a 5-year follow-up period. At 5 years, 77 patients had died (39 liver-related deaths) and 16 patients had undergone liver transplantation. Overall survival was 91.7% and survival without liver-related death was 94.4%. Survival was significantly decreased among patients diagnosed with severe fibrosis, regardless of the noninvasive method of analysis. All methods were able to predict shorter survival times in this large population; liver stiffness and results of FibroTest had higher predictive values. Patient outcomes worsened as liver stiffness and FibroTest values increased. Prognostic values of stiffness (P<.0001) and FibroTest results (P<.0001) remained after they were adjusted for treatment response, patient age, and estimates of necroinflammatory grade. Noninvasive tests for liver fibrosis (measurement of liver stiffness or FibroTest) can predict 5-year survival of patients with chronic hepatitis C. These tools might help physicians determine prognosis at earlier stages and discuss specific treatments, such as liver transplantation."}
{"id": "21344353", "title": "Assessment of fibrosis and cirrhosis in liver biopsies: an update.", "content": "Assessment of fibrosis and cirrhosis in liver biopsies: an update. The liver biopsy specimen represents valuable material for the assessment of fibrosis and cirrhosis. Despite limitations related to sampling and interpretation, histologic examination remains the gold standard for staging chronic liver diseases. Hepatic fibrosis is currently viewed as a dynamic process that may often regress after successful treatment of chronic liver diseases. Even the excess fibrous tissue of cirrhotic livers may sometimes regress over time. Distinguishing between the amount of hepatic fibrosis and the disease stage is important for the assessment of the effects of antifibrotic treatments. Recent studies suggest that the proportion of the liver biopsy specimen occupied by collagen is correlated with the hepatic venous pressure gradient in liver transplant recipients with hepatitis C virus infection, with or without cirrhosis, and represents a predictor of clinical decompensation. This parameter has also been found to correlate with liver stiffness measurements of patients with chronic viral hepatitis obtained by transient elastography. Therefore, quantitative assessment of hepatic fibrosis in liver biopsy specimens holds promise as a prognostic marker, and as a means to validate noninvasive markers of fibrosis."}
{"id": "21332545", "title": "Serum aminotransferase levels instead of etiology affects the accuracy of transient elastography in chronic viral hepatitis patients.", "content": "Serum aminotransferase levels instead of etiology affects the accuracy of transient elastography in chronic viral hepatitis patients. It is still uncertain whether the accuracy of transient elastography (TE) in predicting the fibrosis stage is similar in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and chronic hepatitis C (CHC). The present study was carried out to evaluate whether the underlying cause of chronic viral hepatitis affects the predictive accuracy of TE. Patients with CHB or CHC who were admitted for a liver biopsy were enrolled. Patients underwent TE and laboratory tests on the same day as the liver biopsy. The predictive accuracy was analyzed by comparing the areas under the receiver-operating characteristic curves (AUCs). Two-hundred and seven patients were enrolled, comprising 121 CHB patients and 86 CHC patients). The patients were aged 44 \u00b1 14 years, and 121 (58.5%) of them were men. AUCs for predicting significant fibrosis were significantly lower in CHB patients than in CHC patients (P = 0.043). The serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level was associated with overestimation and underestimation of the fibrosis stage, while the cause of chronic hepatitis was not. AUCs for predicting significant fibrosis were significantly lower in patients with ALT levels >70 IU/L (AUC, 0.830; 95% CI, 0.742-0.898) than in patients with ALT levels \u226470 IU/L (0.944; 0.882-0.979; P = 0.015). Although the predictive accuracy of TE in predicting significant fibrosis differed significantly with the cause of chronic hepatitis, this difference was due to the degree of serum ALT levels rather than to the cause of hepatitis itself. Avoiding performing TE in patients with elevated ALT levels is recommended to guarantee the predictive accuracy of TE."}
{"id": "21321842", "title": "Accuracy of VirtualTouch Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) imaging for the diagnosis of cirrhosis during liver ultrasonography.", "content": "Accuracy of VirtualTouch Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) imaging for the diagnosis of cirrhosis during liver ultrasonography. VirtualTouch is a new technique recently proposed to evaluate liver stiffness during B-mode ultrasonography. The goal of the present study was to analyze the diagnostic accuracy of VirtualTouch in the diagnosis of cirrhosis and its correlation with transient elastography (Fibroscan). A total of 133 patients with chronic liver disease were enrolled. 90 of 133 underwent VirtualTouch and transient elastography and 70 patients assessed with VirtualTouch were submitted to liver biopsy. Stiffness was assessed by both techniques in the right liver lobe. The diagnostic accuracy for cirrhosis was first assessed in the 90 patients submitted to transient elastography with > 13 kPa (47 % of patients) as diagnostic for cirrhosis values. The best cut-off for cirrhosis with VirtualTouch was then tested in the 70 patients with biopsy (cirrhosis in 38 % of patients). 41 patients were assessed by VirtualTouch by two different operators. The VirtualTouch values in controls, chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were respectively 113, 147 and 255 cm/sec. The AUROC of liver VirtualTouch for the diagnosis of cirrhosis (reference Fibroscan) was 0.941 with 175 cm/sec as the best cut-off (sensitivity 93.0 %; specificity 85.1 %). VirtualTouch confirmed good performance also in patients with bioptic diagnosis of cirrhosis (AUROC 0.908, sensitivity 81.5 %, specificity 88.4 %,). The correlation of VirtualTouch with transient elastography was strict (r = 0.891) and the correlation in VirtualTouch measurements between two operators was also good (r = 0.874). VirtualTouch is able to identify the presence of cirrhosis with good accuracy, shows good interobserver reproducibility and the correlation of its values with those obtained by transient elastography with Fibroscan is good."}
{"id": "21299910", "title": "A brief review on molecular, genetic and imaging techniques for HCV fibrosis evaluation.", "content": "A brief review on molecular, genetic and imaging techniques for HCV fibrosis evaluation. Chronic HCV is one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality in the present day world. The assessment of disease progression not only provides useful information for diagnosis and therapeutic supervision judgment but also for monitoring disease. Different invasive and non invasive methods are applied to diagnose the disease from initial to end stage (mild fibrosis to cirrhosis). Although, liver biopsy is still considered as gold standard to identify liver histological stages, an assessment of the disease development based on non-invasive clinical findings is also emerging and this may replace the need of biopsy in near future. This review gives brief insight on non-invasive methods currently available for predicting liver fibrosis in HCV with their current pros and cons to make easier for a clinician to choose better marker to assess liver fibrosis in HCV infected patients. More than 200 studies regarding invasive and noninvasive markers available for HCV liver disease diagnosis were thoroughly reviewed. We examined year wise results of these markers based on their sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV and AUROCs. We found that in all non-invasive serum markers for HCV, FibroTest, Forn's Index, Fibrometer and HepaScore have high five-year predictive value but with low AUROCs (0.60~0.85) and are not comparable to liver biopsy (AUROC = 0.97). Even though from its beginning, Fibroscan is proved to be best with high AUROCs (> 0.90) in all studies, no single noninvasive marker is able to differentiate all fibrosis stages from end stage cirrhosis. Meanwhile, specific genetic markers may not only discriminate fibrotic and cirrhotic liver but also differentiate individual fibrosis stages. There is a need of marker which accurately determines the stage based on simplest routine laboratory test. Genetic marker in combination of imaging technique may be the better non invasive diagnostic method in future."}
{"id": "21273523", "title": "Liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C: noninvasive diagnosis by means of real-time tissue elastography--establishment of the method for measurement.", "content": "Liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C: noninvasive diagnosis by means of real-time tissue elastography--establishment of the method for measurement. To prospectively measure liver stiffness with real-time tissue elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis C and to compare the results with those of clinical assessment of fibrosis by using histologic stage as the reference standard. All subjects gave informed consent, and the study was approved by the institutional ethics committee. Seventy hospitalized patients (46 men, 24 women; mean age, 65.5 years \u00b1 11.7 [standard deviation]; age range, 33-87 years) with chronic hepatitis C underwent real-time elastography between January 2009 and September 2009. Elastography was performed at four liver locations by two independent observers. The elastic ratio (ratio of the value in the intrahepatic venous small vessels divided by the value in the hepatic parenchyma) was calculated and was compared with histologic fibrosis stage at liver biopsy. The elastic ratio and clinical fibrosis markers were assessed by using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The differences between body site and observers were assessed with \u03ba statistics and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). Real-time tissue elastography cutoff values were 2.73 for F of 2 or greater, 3.25 for F of 3 or greater, and 3.93 for F of 4. No site differences were observed (\u03ba = 0.835, ICC = 0.966), and the elastic ratio measurement was correlated between the two examiners (r(2) = 0.869, P < .0001). The areas under the ROC curves for elastic ratio, hyaluronic acid, type IV collagen, aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index, FibroIndex, Forns score, and Hepascore were 0.95, 0.32, 0.73, 0.76, 0.76, 0.87, and 0.70, respectively; the elastic ratio performed better than the serum fibrosis markers and other scores. Real-time tissue elastography is not invasive and could be used to evaluate liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. http://radiology.rsna.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.1148/radiol.10100319/-/DC1."}
{"id": "21256907", "title": "Noninvasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis using acoustic radiation force-based shear stiffness in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Noninvasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis using acoustic radiation force-based shear stiffness in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common form of chronic liver disease in developed countries, may progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in a minority of people. Those with NASH are at increased risk for cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The potential risk and economic burden of utilizing liver biopsy to stage NAFLD in an overwhelmingly large at-risk population are enormous; thus, the discovery of sensitive, inexpensive, and reliable noninvasive diagnostic modalities is essential for population-based screening. Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) shear wave imaging, a noninvasive method of assessing tissue stiffness, was used to evaluate liver fibrosis in 172 patients diagnosed with NAFLD. Liver shear stiffness measures in three different imaging locations were reconstructed and compared to the histologic features of NAFLD and AST-to-platelet ratio indices (APRI). Reconstructed shear stiffnesses were not associated with ballooned hepatocytes (p=0.11), inflammation (p=0.69), nor imaging location (p=0.11). Using a predictive shear stiffness threshold of 4.24kPa, shear stiffness distinguished low (fibrosis stage 0-2) from high (fibrosis stage 3-4) fibrosis stages with a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 90% (AUC of 0.90). Shear stiffness had a mild correlation with APRI (R(2)=0.22). BMI>40kg/m(2) was not a limiting factor for ARFI imaging, and no correlation was noted between BMI and shear stiffness (R(2)=0.05). ARFI imaging is a promising imaging modality for assessing the presence or absence of advanced fibrosis in patients with obesity-related liver disease."}
{"id": "21254180", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis. Liver biopsy has long been an important tool for assessing the degree of liver fibrosis. Information on the presence and degree of liver fibrosis is useful before making therapeutic decisions or predicting disease outcomes. The need to stage liver fibrosis, however, should decrease as treatment options become more successful (as has occurred with viral hepatitis). In recent years, noninvasive tests have demonstrated a reasonable ability to identify significant fibrosis, cirrhosis in particular, nor is it surprising that liver disease specialists and patients favor a noninvasive approach. However, only those tests with the highest diagnostic accuracy, cost-effectiveness, and availability should be implemented. Apart from their diagnostic accuracy, the potential ability of these tests to predict disease outcomes (a more relevant endpoint) should be compared with that of liver biopsy. Indeed, the use of a standardized system to evaluate the utility of biomarkers would facilitate their implementation in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21235598", "title": "Transient elastography and biomarkers for liver fibrosis assessment and follow-up of inactive hepatitis B carriers.", "content": "Transient elastography and biomarkers for liver fibrosis assessment and follow-up of inactive hepatitis B carriers. Non invasive methods for fibrosis evaluation remain to be validated longitudinally in hepatitis B. To evaluate longitudinally transient elastography (TE) and biomarkers for liver fibrosis assessment and follow-up of hepatitis B virus (HBV) inactive carriers. Three hundred and twenty-nine consecutive HBeAg-negative HBV patients (201 inactive carriers) who underwent TE, Fibrotest and aspartate to platelet ratio index (APRI) the same day were studied. TE (median 4.8 vs. 6.8 kPa, P < 0.0001), Fibrotest (0.16 vs. 0.35, P < 0.0001) and APRI values (0.28 vs. 0.43, P < 0.0001) were significantly lower in inactive carriers than in the remaining patients whereas they did not differ among inactive carriers according to HBV DNA levels. In 82 inactive carriers with repeated examinations, although differences were observed among individual patients, TE values did not differ significantly over time (median intra-patient changes at end of follow-up relative to baseline: -0.2 kPa, P = 0.12). Conversely, significant fluctuations were observed for Fibrotest (+0.03, P = 0.012) and APRI (-0.01, P < 0.05). Eleven inactive carriers (5.5%) had initial elevated TE values (>7.2 kPa) confirmed during follow-up in two with significant fibrosis (F2 and F3) on liver biopsy. Non-invasive tools, particularly TE, could be useful, in addition to HBV DNA and transaminase levels, for follow-up of HBV inactive carriers as well as better selection of patients who require a liver biopsy."}
{"id": "21205132", "title": "How to assess liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C: serum markers or transient elastography vs. liver biopsy?", "content": "How to assess liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C: serum markers or transient elastography vs. liver biopsy? The assessment of liver fibrosis is a major issue in the management of patients with chronic hepatitis C. Liver biopsy has traditionally been considered the gold standard for the evaluation of tissue damage, including fibrosis. In addition, it detects associated lesions such as steatosis, steatohepatitis or iron overload, which provide useful information for patient management and prognosis. Liver biopsy is, however, an invasive procedure, with a risk of rare but potentially life-threatening complications and it is prone to sampling errors. These limitations have led to the development of non-invasive methods. Currently available tests rely on two different but complementary approaches: (i) a 'biological' approach based on the dosage of serum biomarkers of fibrosis; (ii) a 'physical' approach based on the measurement of liver stiffness, using transient elastography. Although significant progress has been made in the non-invasive diagnosis of fibrosis, it is increasingly clear that these methods will not completely replace liver biopsy. Instead, non-invasive methods and liver biopsy should be used in an integrated approach for more efficient and convenient management of patients with chronic hepatitis C. The aim of this review is to discuss the advantages and limitations of liver biopsy and non-invasive methods and the perspectives for their use in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21198828", "title": "Application of the HALF index obviates the need for liver biopsy in half of all patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Application of the HALF index obviates the need for liver biopsy in half of all patients with chronic hepatitis B. Transient elastography (TE) is useful for predicting the fibrosis stage, but it is unsatisfactory as a substitute for liver biopsy, especially in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). This study was performed to establish a reliable model for predicting significant fibrosis (SF) in patients with CHB. All CHB patients who were admitted to undergo liver biopsy were enrolled. They were randomly classified into either a training set (n = 139) or a validation set (n = 69). A model for predicting SF was established in the training set and validated in the validation set. Low and high cutoff values (COVs) were chosen for sensitivity \u2265 99% and specificity \u2265 99%, respectively. A total of 208 patients were enrolled. Age was 39 \u00b1 12 years and 149 (71.6%) were men. In the training set, liver stiffness values and serum haptoglobin, apolipoprotein A1, and \u03b12-macroglobulin levels were independent predictors of SF on multivariate analysis. These variables were used to construct a novel model, called the HALF index. The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve of the HALF index for predicting SF was significantly higher than that of TE alone (0.915 vs 0.877, P = 0.010). Using low and high COVs of the HALF index, it appears that approximately half (47.1%) of patients could avoid liver biopsy, with an associated accuracy of 99.0%. A combination of liver stiffness and serum markers identified SF with a high degree of accuracy. Approximately half of all patients with CHB could avoid liver biopsy through the utilization of the HALF index."}
{"id": "21182552", "title": "Outreach screening of drug users for cirrhosis with transient elastography.", "content": "Outreach screening of drug users for cirrhosis with transient elastography. Transient elastography (TE) is a non-invasive sensitive tool for diagnosing cirrhosis in hospital-based cohorts. This study aimed to evaluate TE as a screening tool for cirrhosis among drug users. Cross-sectional study. All treatment centres in the county of Funen, Denmark. Drug users attending treatment centres during the presence of the study team. Liver stiffness measurements (LSM) by transient elastography using the Fibroscan device; blood tests for viral hepatitis, HIV infection and hyaluronic acid (HA) levels; and routine liver tests. Individuals with LSM \u2265 8 kPa were referred to the hospital for treatment evaluation. Individuals with LSM \u2265 12 kPa were recommended a liver biopsy. Among 175 drug users negative for hepatitis C, 13% had LSM = 8-11.9 kPa and 4% had LSM \u2265 12 kPa; elevated LSM was associated with a body mass index (BMI) > 30. Among 128 drug users with chronic hepatitis C, 19.5% had LSM = 8-11.9 kPa and 21.1% had LSM \u2265 12 kPa (P < 0.001). Repeat LSM at liver biopsy performed a median 3 months after screening showed a significant decrease (<12 kPa) among 30% (six of 20), and this was independent of alcohol consumption, BMI, age and gender. In 29 patients where liver biopsy was performed a LSM \u2265 16 kPa predicted cirrhosis with 88.9% sensitivity and 90% specificity. Transient elastography is a feasible screening tool for cirrhosis among drug users. Transient elastography identifies severe liver fibrosis in a significant proportion of drug users with hepatitis C infections but management should not be based on a single elevated liver stiffness measurement."}
{"id": "21175811", "title": "The usefulness of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in chronic hepatitis C in South Korea: a multicenter, prospective study.", "content": "The usefulness of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in chronic hepatitis C in South Korea: a multicenter, prospective study. We investigated the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in a multicenter, prospective study in South Korea. Between June 2005 and July 2009, 91 CHC patients without a previous history of antiviral treatment, clinical evidences of cirrhosis, coinfection with other viruses, and heavy alcohol consumption and with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) \u22645x upper limit of normal, total bilirubin \u22641.5 mg/dL, sufficient liver biopsy quality (\u226515 mm and more than six portal tracts), interquartile range to median liver stiffness (LS) value ratio \u22640.21, and more than 10 valid measurements, were recruited. The Batts and Ludwig scoring system was used for histologic assessment. Age-platelet index (API), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)-to-platelet ratio index (APRI), and age-spleen-platelet ratio index (ASPRI) were calculated. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was used to evaluate the performance of LSM and other noninvasive models. The mean age was 47.9 years, and the mean LS value was 7.7 kPa (44 men and 47 women). LS value was highly correlated to the fibrosis stages (r=0.835, P<0.001). The AUROCs of LSM were 0.909 for \u2265F2, 0.993 for \u2265F3, and 0.970 for F=4 and were superior to those of API (0.72, 0.858, and 0.948, respectively), APRI (0.780, 0.887, and 0.904, respectively), and ASPRI (0.713, 0.862, and 0.957, respectively). The optimal cutoff LS values were 6.2 kPa for \u2265F2, 7.7 kPa for \u2265F3, and 11.0 kPa for F=4. Our data suggest that LSM can accurately assess liver fibrosis in patients with CHC and be applied in South Korea."}
{"id": "21168459", "title": "Variant adiponutrin (PNPLA3) represents a common fibrosis risk gene: non-invasive elastography-based study in chronic liver disease.", "content": "Variant adiponutrin (PNPLA3) represents a common fibrosis risk gene: non-invasive elastography-based study in chronic liver disease. Recent genome-wide association studies have identified the variant p.I148M of the adiponutrin gene PNPLA3 as a risk factor for developing severe forms of non-alcoholic and alcoholic liver diseases. The risk allele confers an increased risk for fatty liver disease and elevated serum aminotransferase activities reflecting liver injury. In the current elastography-based study, we investigate variant adiponutrin as genetic determinant of liver fibrosis, the hallmark of all chronic liver diseases. In this observational cross-sectional study, we staged 899 patients with different chronic liver diseases non-invasively by transient elastography (Fibroscan) and genotyped them for variant adiponutrin (rs738409) by PCR-based assays. A subgroup of 229 patients consented to percutaneous liver biopsy, validating the accuracy of elastography in staging fibrosis (\u03c1=0.743, p<0.01). Carriers of distinct p.I148M adiponutrin genotypes display significant (p=0.017) differences in liver stiffness determined by elastography. In particular, individuals carrying the allele [G] are at higher risk of developing liver cirrhosis defined by stiffness values \u226513.0kPa (OR=1.56, p=0.005). Of note, the PNPLA3 risk variant advances fibrosis in the total cohort as well as in the subgroups of patients with viral hepatitis and non-viral liver diseases and contributes 16% of the total cirrhosis risk. The adiponutrin risk variant is a common genetic determinant of progressive liver fibrosis. Our results underpin non-invasive follow-up for individuals with chronic liver disease at-risk for developing advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis."}
{"id": "21157442", "title": "Mild-to-moderate elevation of alanine aminotransferase increases liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Mild-to-moderate elevation of alanine aminotransferase increases liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Liver stiffness measurement has been shown to be increased in severe acute flares of hepatitis. Whether lesser degree of hepatitis can also increase liver stiffness is not known. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of mild-to-moderate elevations of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) on liver stiffness in chronic hepatitis B. Fifty-eight patients with chronic hepatitis B with ALT levels from 1 to 10 \u00d7 upper limit of normal were recruited. Liver stiffness measurements were performed at the time of ALT elevation, and liver stiffness measurement was repeated once normalization of ALT occurred after antiviral therapy. Liver biopsies were performed in 38 patients. All 58 patients achieved normalization of ALT after antiviral therapy, with a median time of 3 months between the first and second liver stiffness measurement. There was a significantly lower median liver stiffness measurement after commencement of antiviral therapy, with the normalization of ALT levels compared with pre-treatment levels (6.4 vs. 7.9 kPa, respectively; P<0.001). The area under the receiver operator characteristic curve for diagnosing F2 fibrosis in elevated ALT was 0.68, compared with 0.73 after ALT normalization. Twelve (32%) patients would have been misclassified as having cirrhosis using liver stiffness measurements taken at the time of ALT elevation, compared with 16% after normalization of ALT. Even mild-to-moderate elevation in ALT levels may increase liver stiffness independent of underlying liver fibrosis. Higher levels of ALT were associated with higher discrepancies in liver stiffness. Therefore, the timing of liver stiffness measurement is important."}
{"id": "21146892", "title": "Elastography for the diagnosis of severity of fibrosis in chronic liver disease: a meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy.", "content": "Elastography for the diagnosis of severity of fibrosis in chronic liver disease: a meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy. Transient elastography is a non-invasive method, for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis, developed as an alternative to liver biopsy. We studied the performance of elastography for diagnosis of fibrosis using meta-analysis. MEDLINE, EMBASE, SCI, Cochrane Library, conference abstracts books, and article references were searched. We included studies using biopsy as a reference standard, with the data necessary to calculate the true and false positive, true and false negative diagnostic results of elastography for a fibrosis stage, and with a 3-month maximum interval between tests. The quality of the studies was rated with the QUADAS tool. We identified 40 eligible studies. Summary sensitivity and specificity was 0.79 (95% CI 0.74-0.82) and 0.78 (95% CI 0.72-0.83) for F2 stage and 0.83 (95% CI 0.79-0.86) and 0.89 (95% CI 0.87-0.91) for cirrhosis. After an elastography result at/over the threshold value for F2 or cirrhosis (\"positive\" result), the corresponding post-test probability for their presence (if pre-test probability was 50%) was 78%, and 88% respectively, while, if values were below these thresholds (\"negative\" result), the post-test probability was 21% and 16%, respectively. No optimal stiffness cut-offs for individual fibrosis stages were validated in independent cohorts and cut-offs had a wide range and overlap within and between stages. Elastography theoretically has good sensitivity and specificity for cirrhosis (and less for lesser degrees of fibrosis); however, it should be cautiously applied to everyday clinical practice because there is no validation of the stiffness cut-offs for the various stages. Such validation is required before elastography is considered sufficiently accurate for non-invasive staging of fibrosis."}
{"id": "21146243", "title": "Etiology-related determinants of liver stiffness values in chronic viral hepatitis B or C.", "content": "Etiology-related determinants of liver stiffness values in chronic viral hepatitis B or C. Transient elastography (TE) has gained popularity for the non-invasive assessment of severity of chronic viral hepatitis, but a comprehensive evaluation of the factors that might account for discrepancy in diagnostic accuracy between TE and the standard of care liver biopsy (LB) is still needed. Patients with chronic hepatitis-B (HBV, n=104) or -C (HCV, n=453) underwent percutaneous LB concomitantly with TE (FibroScan\u00ae; Echosens, Paris, France). Liver cell necroinflammatory activity (A) and fibrosis (F) were assessed by METAVIR. Perisinusoidal fibrosis was rated with a 0-3 score. Determinants of TE results were investigated by a linear regression model whereas discordance between TE and LB results was assessed by logistic regression. Fibrosis (p<0.0001) and liver cell necroinflammatory activity (p<0.0001) were independently associated with TE results in both HBV and HCV patients, whereas steatosis (p<0.0001) was independently associated with TE in HCV only. Fibrosis overestimation was predicted by severe/moderate necroinflammatory activity in HBV and by older age (41-60 or>60years vs.<40), >2 UNL AST and>2 UNL GGT, as well as severe/moderate necroinflammatory activity and severe/moderate steatosis in HCV. In the latter patients, however, moderate/severe necroinflammatory activity and steatosis were the only independent predictors of fibrosis overestimation. Fibrosis and necroinflammatory activity are the main determinants of TE in chronic viral hepatitis. Since TE staging of fibrosis is influenced by necroinflammatory activity and steatosis, a diagnostic LB is deemed necessary for a reliable intra-patient TE monitoring of the course of viral hepatitis."}
{"id": "21129129", "title": "Impact of liver steatosis on the correlation between liver stiffness and fibrosis measured by transient elastography in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis C virus.", "content": "Impact of liver steatosis on the correlation between liver stiffness and fibrosis measured by transient elastography in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis C virus. We assessed the effect of different hepatic conditions such as fibrosis, steatosis and necroinflammatory activity on liver stiffness as measured by transient elastography in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients. We studied all consecutive HIV/HCV-coinfected patients who underwent liver biopsy and elastography between January 2007 and December 2008. Liver fibrosis was staged following METAVIR Cooperative Study Group criteria. Steatosis was categorized according to the percentage of affected hepatocytes as low (\u226410%), moderate (<25%) and severe (\u226525%). A total of 110 patients were included. Fibrosis was distributed by stage as follows: F0, n\u2003=\u200313; F1, n\u2003=\u200347; F2, n\u2003=\u200329; F3, n\u2003=\u200318; and F4, n\u2003=\u20033. Liver biopsy revealed the presence of hepatic steatosis in 68 patients (low to moderate, n\u2003=\u200353; and severe n\u2003=\u200315). By univariate regression analysis, fibrosis, necroinflammatory activity, and the degree of steatosis were correlated with liver stiffness. However, in a multiple regression analysis, steatosis and fibrosis were the only independent variables significantly associated with liver stiffness. With a cut-off of 9.5\u2003kPa to distinguish patients with F\u2003\u2264\u20032 from F\u2003\u2265\u20033, elastography led to a significantly higher number of misclassification errors (25%vs 5%; P\u2003=\u20030.014), most of which were false positives for F\u2003\u2265\u20033. Our study suggests that the correlation between liver stiffness and fibrosis as estimated by transient elastography may be affected by the presence of hepatic steatosis in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients."}
{"id": "21104600", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis with acoustic radiation force impulse imaging: increased liver and splenic stiffness in patients with liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis with acoustic radiation force impulse imaging: increased liver and splenic stiffness in patients with liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. To evaluate acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) of the liver and spleen as a new method for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis (LF). Three groups of 58 examinees were studied: (A) 20 healthy volunteers; (B) 18 patients with chronic viral hepatitis (CVH) B or C having liver fibrosis stages F 1 - 4 (assessed by liver biopsy; Ishak classification); and (C) 20 patients with liver cirrhosis (LC). All participants were examined using the Siemens ACUSON S 2000 Ultrasound Virtual Touch Tissue Quantification system. Ten measurements were performed on both liver lobes and three measurements on the spleen, and the obtained mean values (shear wave velocities [SWV] expressed in m/s) were compared between the groups. In 20 patients the splenic artery pulsatility index (SAPI) was also measured and correlated to the liver and splenic ARFI and histological stage of LF. Hepatic ARFI measurements demonstrated a significant correlation to LB results (Spearman's \u03c1 = 0.766; \u03c1 < 0.001) and SWV cut-off values of 1.3 (AUC 0.96) and 1.86 (AUC 0.99) could reliably differentiate between healthy (A) and non-cirrhotic CVH (B), as well as between non-cirrhotic CVH (B) and LC (C). Splenic SWV cut-off value of 2.73 (AUC 0.82) could differentiate between the patients with LC and non-cirrhotic CVH. A significant correlation was also observed between the SAPI and liver ARFI results (\u03c1 = 0.56; p = 0.013). The hepatic and splenic SWV measured by ARFI increase with the LF stage, and the hepatic SWV correlate well with SAPI. This new technology enables simultaneous morphological, Doppler and elastometric examinations and might improve the accuracy of noninvasive liver fibrosis assessment."}
{"id": "21079513", "title": "Lower liver stiffness in patients with sustained virological response 4 years after treatment for chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Lower liver stiffness in patients with sustained virological response 4 years after treatment for chronic hepatitis C. Transient elastography (TE) is a noninvasive and well validated method for measurement of liver stiffness. The aim of this study was to use TE to evaluate whether patients with sustained virological response (SVR) have lower liver stiffness than patients with non-SVR after treatment for chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Patients with CHC, who had undergone liver biopsy before treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin, were included from four clinical centres in Denmark. All patients were examined with TE and had a blood test taken for hepatitis C virus-virus detection and analysis of alanine aminotransferase, platelet counts and hyaluronic acid. For 110 (92%) of the 120 patients included, it was possible to obtain a successful measurement of liver stiffness. Of these, 71 (64.5%) had achieved SVR. Median follow-up time was 47 months. Patients with pretreatment minimal fibrosis (F0/F1) in their liver biopsy had median liver stiffness of 5.3 kPa for SVR versus 6.1 kPa for non-SVR (P=0.56). Patients with pretreatment moderate fibrosis (F2/F3) had median liver stiffness of 5.4 kPa for SVR versus 9.4 kPa for non-SVR (P<0.001). Median liver stiffness for patients with pretreatment cirrhosis (F4) was 6.8 kPa for SVR versus 24 kPa for non-SVR (P<0.001). Examination with TE 4 years after treatment shows that patients with CHC, who have achieved SVR, have significantly lower liver stiffness than patients with non-SVR. This indicates that histological liver outcome improves during the first year after the treatment for CHC."}
{"id": "21068129", "title": "Transient elastography as a screening tool for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in a community-based population aged over 45 years.", "content": "Transient elastography as a screening tool for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in a community-based population aged over 45 years. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) has been used to measure fibrosis in patients with various types of chronic liver diseases. However, its usefulness as a screening procedure in apparently healthy people had not been evaluated to date. 1358 subjects >45 years old from a general population attending for a medical check-up were consecutively enrolled in the study. All subjects were submitted to medical examination and laboratory tests in addition to LSM, performed on the same day by a single operator. Subjects with LSM values >8 kPa were referred to a liver unit for further investigations. 168 subjects were not considered for analysis due to missing data (n=23), LSM failure (n=51) or unreliable LSM values (n=94). Among the 1190 remaining subjects, 89 (7.5%) had LSM >8 kPa including nine patients with LSM >13 kPa. Despite the fact that normal liver tests were observed in 43% of them (38 out of 89), a specific cause of chronic liver disease was found in all cases. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) was the likely cause of chronic liver disease in 52 patients, alcoholic liver disease (ALD) in 20, and both causes were associated in seven additional patients. Hepatitis C virus and hepatitis B virus chronic hepatitis was documented in five and four cases, respectively, and primary biliary cirrhosis in one. Liver biopsy was obtained for 27 patients, including the nine patients with LSM >13 kPa, who were diagnosed with liver cirrhosis due to ALD (n=5), chronic hepatitis C (n=3) or chronic hepatitis B (n=1). The 18 remaining biopsies showed liver fibrosis in all cases except one (isolated steatosis), with ALD and NAFLD being present in six and eight cases, respectively. LSM proved to be a useful and specific procedure to screen for cirrhosis in the general population and to detect undiagnosed chronic liver disease in apparently healthy subjects."}
{"id": "21062388", "title": "Dynamic evaluation of liver stiffness measurement to improve diagnostic accuracy of liver cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B acute exacerbation.", "content": "Dynamic evaluation of liver stiffness measurement to improve diagnostic accuracy of liver cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B acute exacerbation. To investigate the dynamic changes of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by FibroScan(\u00ae) and improve its diagnostic accuracy, we studied patients with chronic hepatitis B undergoing acute exacerbation. Eighty-nine treatment na\u00efve patients were enrolled, and Fibroscan(\u00ae) was performed every 7-10 days during hospitalization and every 1\u223c3 months for follow-up. Haematology and liver functions were tested in parallel. Liver biopsies were performed in 23 patients. A total of 282 LSMs were performed. LSM was positively correlated with both alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (r = 0.321, P < 0.001) and bilirubin levels (r = 0.626, P < 0.001). Mean reduction in LSMs in patients along with ALT or bilirubin normalization was significantly greater than those without ALT or bilirubin normalization(P = 0.001, P = 0.038, respectively). In 23 patients with initial LSMs in the range usually defined as indicating cirrhosis (i.e.>18.2 kPa), only 5 were diagnosed with cirrhosis by histopathology or ultrasonography. As ALT normalized, LSMs remained over 12.0 kPa in all these 5 patients. However, in 18 other patients without cirrhosis at baseline, LSMs still remained above 12.0kPa in 10 patients and decreased to below 12.0 kPa in the other 8 patients. LSMs decreased in parallel with ALT and bilirubin normalization. LSM performed after ALT and bilirubin normalization may improve the accuracy in diagnosing cirrhosis in patients with exacerbations of hepatitis B."}
{"id": "21040236", "title": "The optimal cut-off for predicting large oesophageal varices using transient elastography is disease specific.", "content": "The optimal cut-off for predicting large oesophageal varices using transient elastography is disease specific. The diagnosis of cirrhosis requires screening for oesophageal varices by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. In many countries, serological tests and elastography are replacing liver biopsy for diagnosing cirrhosis. The aims of this study were to see whether there was an optimal cut-off of liver stiffness that could predict the presence of large (>F2) oesophageal varices and whether this was disease specific. A total of two hundred and twenty-two patients with all cause cirrhosis (Child class A) were screened, and 211 had successful elastography and are included in the analysis. Of the patients studied, one hundred and thirty-two patients had no or small F1 varices and 79 had large varices. Liver stiffness of 19.8 kPa had a negative predictive value of 91% and a positive predictive value of 55% with an area under the curve (AUC) on receiver operating characteristics (ROC) of 0.73 in differentiating between small and large varices. Seven patients with large varices would have been incorrectly classified. In the 157 patients with hepatitis C as the aetiology of cirrhosis, the negative predictive value was 98% and only one patient was misclassified. Liver stiffness was superior in diagnostic accuracy to platelet count in all patients. A liver stiffness of >19.8 kPa could be utilized as a cut-off for endoscopy and beta blocker utilization, particularly in patients with hepatitis C."}
{"id": "21039302", "title": "Meta-analysis: natural history of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests for liver disease severity.", "content": "Meta-analysis: natural history of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests for liver disease severity. BACKGROUND. NAFLD ranges from simple steatosis (SS) to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The natural history of NAFLD and the optimal strategy to identify subjects with progressive liver disease are unclear. Objectives. To assess the evidence in: (1) natural history of NAFLD; and (2) non-invasive methods to differentiate NAFLD histological subtypes. DESIGN AND SETTING. Among 4185 articles published on MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, EMBASE, Pubmed, national and International meeting abstracts through July 2010, 40 articles assessing the natural history of NAFLD and 32 articles evaluating the diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests against liver biopsy (LB) were included. MEASUREMENTS. Two reviewers retrieved articles and evaluated study quality by appropriate scores. Main outcomes were pooled using random- or fixed-effects models. RESULTS. NAFLD has an increased overall mortality (OR: 1.57, 95% CI: 1.18-2.10), deriving from liver-related and cardiovascular disease, and a 2-fold risk of diabetes. Compared to SS, NASH has a higher liver-related (OR for NASH: 5.71, 2.31-14.13; OR for NASH with advanced fibrosis: 10.06, 4.35-23.25), but not cardiovascular mortality (OR: 0.91, 0.42-1.98). Three non-invasive methods received independent validation: pooled AUROC, sensitivity and specificity of cytokeratin-18 for NASH are 0.82 (0.78-0.88), 0.78 (0.64-0.92), 0.87 (0.77-0.98). For NASH with advanced fibrosis, pooled AUROC, sensitivity and specificity of NAFLD fibrosis score and Fibroscan are 0.85 (0.80-0.93), 0.90 (0.82-0.99), 0.97 (0.94-0.99) and 0.94 (0.90-0.99), 0.94 (0.88-0.99) and 0.95 (0.89-0.99). CONCLUSIONS. NAFLD warrants screening for cardio-metabolic risk and for progressive liver disease. The combination of three noninvasive tests with LB may optimally individuate patients with NASH, with or without advanced fibrosis."}
{"id": "20932598", "title": "Reliability of transient elastography for the detection of fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and chronic viral hepatitis.", "content": "Reliability of transient elastography for the detection of fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and chronic viral hepatitis. Transient elastography (TE) is validated in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) to evaluate hepatic fibrosis; however, limited data are available in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This prospective study is aimed to assess the accuracy and the efficacy of TE for the detection of fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease of different etiology and to evaluate the effect of steatosis on the liver stiffness measurement (LSM). TE was performed in 219 consecutive patients with chronic liver disease (35% CHC, 32% CHB, and 33% NAFLD) within 6 months of the liver biopsy. LSM was related to the fibrosis stage in each group (CHC: p = 0.596, p < 0.001; CHB: p = 0.418, p < 0.001; NAFLD: p = 0.573, p < 0.001), but the correlation was less strong in CHB and NAFLD than in CHC patients. In CHB patients with histological cirrhosis (F4), the median stiffness value was almost two times lower than in patients with severe fibrosis (F3). In NAFLD patients with advanced fibrosis (F3) and severe steatosis (> 33%), the LSM values were lower than expected and were similar to those of patients with initial fibrosis (F1) and fat < 33%. TE underestimated the stage of fibrosis in 75% of patients with F3 and steatosis > 33%. At multiple logistic regression analysis, in CHC and CHB patients, LSM was the only predictive variable of severe fibrosis/cirrhosis (OR = 1.42, p = 0.003 and OR = 1.354, p = 0.003, respectively), while in NAFLD subjects BMI and AST (OR = 1.433, p = 0.002 and OR = 1.053, p = 0.020, respectively) but not LSM were independently related with advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. This study confirms that TE can be considered a valid support to detect fibrosis in chronic liver disease related to HCV but it should be interpreted cautiously in CHB and NAFLD patients, where host or disease-related factors may modify its accuracy."}
{"id": "20817625", "title": "Normal liver stiffness and its determinants in healthy blood donors.", "content": "Normal liver stiffness and its determinants in healthy blood donors. Several studies in healthy populations have investigated normal liver stiffness on transient elastography, but none has excluded subjects with fatty liver. To define normal liver stiffness and its determinants in 923 healthy voluntary blood donors with and without fatty liver. Seven hundred and forty six subjects were analyzed with transient elastography according to the absence (602) or presence of fatty liver (144) at ultrasonography. The cut-off for significant fibrosis was a liver stiffness of 7.9kPa. Normal subjects had significantly lower liver stiffness (median 4.4kPa) than fatty liver subjects (median 5.3, p<0.001). In normal livers male gender was significantly associated with increased liver stiffness at multiple linear regression analysis. Nine (1.4%) blood donors with normal liver and 9 with fatty liver (6.2%) had >7.9kPa. Subjects with verified liver stiffness >7.9kPa, were further investigated with liver biopsy or non-invasive fibrosis markers: only 1 patient with fatty liver had >F1 fibrosis. Liver stiffness in normal liver is lower than in fatty liver, and gender is the only influencing variable. Transient elastography has a very low false positive rate for significant fibrosis and may have a role in screening populations at risk for liver disease."}
{"id": "20697747", "title": "Real-time tissue elastography as a tool for the noninvasive assessment of liver stiffness in patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Real-time tissue elastography as a tool for the noninvasive assessment of liver stiffness in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Although histopathological examination by \"invasive\" liver biopsy remains the gold standard for evaluating disease progression in chronic liver disease, noninvasive tools have appeared and have led to great progress in diagnosing the stage of hepatic fibrosis. The aim of this study was to assess the value of real-time tissue elastography, using an instrument made in Japan, for the visible measurement of liver elasticity; in particular, comparing the results with those of transient elastography (Fibroscan). Real-time tissue elastography (RTE), transient elastography (Fibroscan), liver biopsy, and routine laboratory analyses were performed in 101 patients with chronic hepatitis C. The values for tissue elasticity obtained using novel software (Elasto_ver 1.5.1) connected to RTE were transferred to four image features, Mean, Standard Deviation (SD), Area, and Complexity. Their association with the stage of fibrosis at biopsy and with liver stiffness (kPa) obtained by Fibroscan was analyzed. Colored images obtained by RTE were classified into diffuse soft, intermediate, and patchy hard patterns and the calculated elasticity differed significantly between patients according to and correlated with the stages of fibrosis (p < 0.0001). Mean, SD, Area, and Complexity showed significant differences between the stages of fibrosis (Tukey-Kramer test, p < 0.05). In discriminating patients with cirrhosis, the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) were 0.91 for Mean, 0.84 for SD, 0.91 for Area, 0.93 for Complexity, and 0.95 for Fibroscan. RTE is a noninvasive instrument for the colored visualization of liver elasticity in patients with chronic liver disease."}
{"id": "20603783", "title": "Acoustic radiation force impulse elastography as compared to transient elastography and liver biopsy in patients with chronic hepatopathies.", "content": "Acoustic radiation force impulse elastography as compared to transient elastography and liver biopsy in patients with chronic hepatopathies. To compare two methods of noninvasive assessment: transient elastography (TE) and acoustic radiation force impulse elastography (ARFI). Our study included 114 subjects: 38 healthy volunteers, (considered to have no fibrosis - F 0) and 76 patients with chronic liver disease: 53 who had undergone liver biopsy (LB) (7 with F 1, 24 with F 2, 22 with F 3 Metavir) and 23 previously diagnosed with cirrhosis (F4 Metavir). In each patient we performed a liver stiffness measurement by means of TE and ARFI. ARFI (shear wave velocity quantification) was performed at 3 points: at 0 - 1 cm, at 1 - 2 cm and at 2 - 3 cm under the capsule. For each depth, 5 valid measurements were made, and a median value was calculated, measured in m/sec. A direct, strong, linear correlation (Spearman rho = 0.848) was found between TE and the stage of fibrosis (p < 0.001). A significant, direct correlation was found between ARFI measurements made 1 - 2 cm and 2 - 3 cm below the liver capsule and the severity of fibrosis (rho = 0.675 and 0.714 respectively). The subcapsularly measured ARFI values showed a poor correlation with fibrosis (rho = 0.469). The best test for predicting significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2) was TE, with the area under receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUROC) 0.908, significantly larger than the AUROCs for ARFI. If only ARFI is considered, measurements made 1 - 2 and 2 - 3 cm below the capsule have the best predictive value, with AUROCs not significantly different from each other (0.767 and 0.731, respectively). For predicting fibrosis (F > 0), TE had the best predictive value: optimized cut-off 5.65 kPa (AUROC -0.898). For ARFI, the cut-offs were: 1.4 m/sec, AUROC -0.747 (1 - 2 cm), and 1.26 m/sec AUROC -0.721 (2 - 3 cm). For predicting cirrhosis (F = 4 Metavir), the optimized cut-offs were: TE -12.9 kPa (AUROC -0.994); ARFI - 1.78 m/sec for measurements made 2 - 3 cm below the capsule, AUROC - 0.951. At present, liver elasticity evaluation by means of ARFI is not superior to TE for the assessment of liver fibrosis. For ARFI, the most reliable results are obtained if measurements are made 1 - 2 and 2 - 3 cm below the liver capsule. ARFI is an accurate test for the diagnosis of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "20196798", "title": "Proficiency of transient elastography compared to liver biopsy for the assessment of fibrosis in HIV/HBV-coinfected patients.", "content": "Proficiency of transient elastography compared to liver biopsy for the assessment of fibrosis in HIV/HBV-coinfected patients. Transient elastography (TE) is a noninvasive technique to evaluate liver fibrosis. We compared the performance of TE with liver biopsy (LB) in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) coinfection. Patients prospectively underwent TE and LB. The diagnosis accuracy of TE was calculated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for different stages of fibrosis, and optimal cut-off values were defined. A sequential algorithm combining TE with biochemical score (Fibrotest) is proposed. Fifty-seven patients had both TE and LB (median time: 3 days) and two with proven cirrhosis, only TE. Forty-six (78%) were under antiretroviral therapy with anti-HBV drugs in 98%, and 19 (32%) had elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT). A significant correlation was observed between liver stiffness measurement (LSM) and METAVIR fibrosis stages (P < 0.0001). Patients with elevated ALT tended to have higher LSM than those with normal ALT. The areas under the ROC curves were 0.85 for significant fibrosis (\u2265 F2), 0.92 for advanced fibrosis (\u2265 F3) and 0.96 for cirrhosis. Using a cut-off of 5.9 kPa for F \u2265 2 and 7.6 kPa for F \u2265 3, the diagnosis accuracy was 83% and 86%, respectively. With an algorithm combining TE and Fibrotest, 97% of patients were well classified for significant fibrosis. Using this algorithm, the need for LB can be reduced by 67%. In HIV/HBV-coinfected patients, most of them with normal ALT under antiretroviral treatment including HBV active drugs, TE was proficient in discriminating moderate to severe fibrosis from minimal liver disease."}
{"id": "20088890", "title": "Risk factors for advanced liver fibrosis in HIV-infected individuals: role of antiretroviral drugs and insulin resistance.", "content": "Risk factors for advanced liver fibrosis in HIV-infected individuals: role of antiretroviral drugs and insulin resistance. Liver damage may result from multiple factors in HIV-infected patients. The availability of reliable noninvasive tools to measure liver fibrosis has permitted the screening of large patient populations. Cross-sectional study of all consecutive HIV outpatients who underwent examination by transient elastometry (FibroScan) at one HIV reference clinic during 2007. Advanced liver fibrosis (ALF) was defined as hepatic stiffness >9.5 kilopascals, which corresponds to Metavir stages F3-F4 in the liver biopsy. A total of 681 consecutive HIV-infected patients (64% injecting drug users; mean age 43; 78% male; 98% on antiretroviral therapy) had at least one valid FibroScan evaluation. ALF was diagnosed in 215 (32%) of them. In the univariate analysis, ALF was significantly associated with older age, low CD4 counts, chronic hepatitis C, past alcohol abuse, elevated ALT, high triglycerides, low cholesterol, high homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) index and exposure to didanosine and/or stavudine. In a multivariate model (OR, 95% CI), chronic hepatitis C (2.83, 1.57-5.08), past alcohol abuse (2.26, 1.37-3.74), exposure to didanosine and/or stavudine (1.85, 1.14-3.01), high HOMA index (1.25, 1.04-1.51), older age (1.09, 1.05-1.14) and elevated ALT (1.04, 1.03-1.06) remained as independently associated with ALF. Therefore, in addition to chronic hepatitis C and alcohol abuse, insulin resistance and/or exposure to dideoxy-nucleosides may contribute to ALF in HIV-infected patients."}
{"id": "21165451", "title": "Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)--a new modality for the evaluation of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)--a new modality for the evaluation of liver fibrosis. to assess the accuracy of transient elastography (TE) and Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) for liver fibrosis assessment, as compared to percutaneous liver biopsy (LB) in patients with chronic hepatitis. Our study included 71 patients (P) (54 with HCV and 17 with HBV chronic hepatitis) in which we compared TE and ARFI to the LB (evaluated according to the Metavir scoring system). On LB, from the 71P, 6P (8.4%) had F1, 25P (35.2%) had F2, 24P (33.8%) had F3 and 16P (22.5%) had F4. A direct, strong, linear correlation (Spearman r=0.707) was found between TE measurements and fibrosis (p<0.0001) and a weaker one, between ARFI and fibrosis (rho=0.469; p<0.0001). TE measurements were also correlated with ARFI measurements r=0.532, p<0.0001. By comparing the AUROC curves, TE and ARFI had similar predictive values for the presence of significant fibrosis (F greater or equal to 2 Metavir): AUROC ARFI=0.649, AUROC TE=0.731 (p=0.476); and cirrhosis (F=4 Metavir): AUROC ARFI=0.868, AUROC TE= 0.936 (p=0.294) LS measurements assessed by means of TE correlate better than those assessed by means of ARFI to the histological fibrosis in patients with HBV and HCV chronic hepatitis. Both methods have excellent predictive values for the presence of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "21071307", "title": "[Non-invasive fibrosis assessment in chronic hepatitis C: aspartate-aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI) and transient elastography (FibroScan)].", "content": "[Non-invasive fibrosis assessment in chronic hepatitis C: aspartate-aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI) and transient elastography (FibroScan)]. Although liver biopsy is the gold standard for the diagnosis of liver disease, non-invasive tests may also play a role in the evaluation of liver fibrosis. Authors studied two fibrosis markers, aspartate-aminotransferase / platelet ratio index (APRI) and liver stiffness (LS) measurement to assess fibrosis in different forms of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. out of 119 HCV-infected patients 75 had biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis C, 24 had HCV-cirrhosis, 20 individuals were symptom-free HCV-carriers with persistently normal alanine-aminotransferase and 30 healthy blood donors served as controls. Wai's APRI score was calculated from aspartate-aminotransferase and platelet number. For LS measurement transient elastography (FibroScan) was applied. METAVIR fibrosis score was determined by liver biopsy. In patients with chronic hepatitis C infection both fibrosis markers were significantly elevated comparing to normal controls and the markers were the highest in HCV-associated cirrhosis. Values of symptom-free HCV-carriers corresponded to those obtained from healthy controls. Both APRI and LS results correlated with the METAVIR score. LS identified fibrosis better than APRI. Using a novel sequential algorithm that comprises APRI and LS for assessment of fibrosis, 47.8% of HCV patients did not need biopsy for diagnosing significant (F\u22652) fibrosis. both fibrosis markers, particularly in combination, may represent a useful option in the noninvasive assessment of fibrosis in HCV infection."}
{"id": "21039833", "title": "Transient elastography.", "content": "Transient elastography. In clinical practice, it is important to assess the severity of liver fibrosis in patients with various liver diseases to determine the prognosis, decide treatment, and monitor disease progression and response to treatment. Liver biopsy is limited by its invasiveness and patient acceptability. The development of transient elastography provides clinicians with a non-invasive, accurate, and reproducible tool to estimate liver fibrosis. The technique has been validated among many liver diseases and requires only simple training. Due to its non-invasive nature and ease of use, transient elastography can be used repeatedly on patients, and is optimal for large-scale epidemiological studies, in which stable patients with no indication for liver biopsy can also be included. However, falsely-high liver stiffness measurements might occur during acute hepatitis, extrahepatic cholestasis, congestive heart failure, and amyloidosis. Failed acquisition is also common in obese patients. The development of S and XL probes might cater for different population groups, but calibration in patients with liver biopsy is essential."}
{"id": "21033238", "title": "The impact of steatosis on liver stiffness measurement in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "The impact of steatosis on liver stiffness measurement in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Recently, several studies have indicated that liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using FibroScan accurately predicts liver fibrosis. This study investigated the impact of steatosis on LSM in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). The study prospectively enrolled 162 patients (106 men and 56 women) with CHB who underwent both a liver biopsy and LSM between January 2005 and June 2008. We examined the overall univariate correlation between steatosis and LSM value and also performed a multivariate regression analysis to identify independent variables influencing LSM values. The mean age of the patients was 44.4 years and the mean body mass index was 23.3 +/- 2.8kg/m2. The fibrosis stage ranged from F1 to F4 in 16 patients (9.9%), 37 (22.8%), 17 (10.5%) and 92 (56.8%), respectively. Steatosis was S0 in 128 patients (79.0%), S1 in 28 (17.3%), S2 in 6 (3.7%) and S3 in none. No overall significant correlation was noted between LSM value and steatosis (r = 0.023, p = 0.770). In the multivariate linear regression analysis, only fibrosis stage showed statistical significance (r = 0.268, p < 0.001), while steatosis did not (r = 0.013, p = 0.841). Our findings suggest that mild to moderate steatosis does not have a significant impact on LSM values in patients with CHB."}
{"id": "20969464", "title": "Noncirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV-infected patients: a case control evaluation and review of the literature.", "content": "Noncirrhotic portal hypertension in HIV-infected patients: a case control evaluation and review of the literature. Idiopathic noncirrhotic portal hypertension (NCPH) is an infrequent but possibly underestimated cryptogenetic liver disease recently described in small series of HIV-infected patients. The exposure to antiretroviral drugs, a direct role of HIV itself, microbial translocation from the gut, or a thrombophilic propensity have been suggested as possible pathogenic mechanisms. In this case control study, we describe 11 HIV-infected patients with idiopathic NCPH and compare the activity of protein C and S, and soluble CD14 levels (a surrogate marker of the translocation of intestinal bacterial products) with 10 age- and gender-matched HIV-infected controls with no liver disease. The clinical presentation of the 11 patients with NCPH was characterised by acute variceal bleeding (2/11), ascites (2/11), portal thrombosis (2/11), and ultrasonographic and endoscopic signs of portal hypertension (11/11), with slightly high alanine transaminase (ALT) and \u03b3glutamyl transpeptidase (\u03b3-GT) levels. The FibroScan median liver stiffness was 8.1\u2009kPa, which is inconsistent with significant fibrosis, and nodular regenerative hyperplasia was diagnosed in the 5 patients who underwent liver biopsy. The NCPH patients showed no impairment of hepatic synthesis, but had lower serum albumin levels and a higher international normalized ratio (INR) than the controls (p\u2009=\u20090.01), and lower protein C and S activity, although within the normal range (p\u2009=\u20090.02 and 0.3, respectively). No significant difference in soluble CD14 was seen between the two groups. In conclusion, the etiology of NCHP is not still established, but in order to prevent the dramatic complications of portal hypertension, all HIV-infected patients with unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities or thrombocytopenia should be considered for further investigations by means of thrombophilic screening, Doppler ultrasound evaluation, and in the presence of portal hypertension, endoscopy and liver biopsy."}
{"id": "20966469", "title": "Evaluation of sound speed for detection of liver fibrosis: prospective comparison with transient dynamic elastography and histology.", "content": "Evaluation of sound speed for detection of liver fibrosis: prospective comparison with transient dynamic elastography and histology. The degree of liver fibrosis determines the prognosis and treatment of patients with chronic viral hepatitis. Transient elastography (TE) has been accepted as a noninvasive method for assessment of liver fibrosis. Sound velocity (SV) changes are also dependent on elastic properties of tissue. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate whether SV estimation of liver tissue allows the determination of fibrosis stages in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. Prospectively, 50 healthy volunteers and 149 patients received stiffness (TE, 50-Hz vibrator, 5-MHz array) and SV (conventional ultrasound, C5-2-MHz transducer) measurements. Eighty-four patients received representative liver biopsies. The estimated SV and stiffness were compared using liver biopsy as a reference (METAVIR fibrosis stage [F] scoring system [Hepatology 1996; 24:289-293]). Descriptive statistics, analysis of variance, receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, and box plot analysis as well as intra-operator and interoperator reproducibility analyses were performed. The SV ranged from 1540 to 1650 m/s. The mean SV \u00b1 SD was significantly different between healthy volunteers (1559 \u00b1 11 m/s) and patients with F0-F3 (1575 \u00b1 21 mm/s) and F4 (1594 \u00b1 18 m/s) disease (P < .001). For detection of liver cirrhosis, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for SV was 0.80 (95% confidence interval, 0.69-0.89). With a cutoff value of 1589 m/s, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of SV for detection of liver cirrhosis were 82%, 76%, 70%, and 86%, respectively. Sound velocity measurements were reproducible (15%) and had acceptable operator independence (19%). The SV of liver tissue depends on the fibrosis stage. An SV of 1589 m/s or higher detects cirrhosis with high sensitivity. Therefore, SV measurement appears to be a promising new method for noninvasive quantification of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "20939112", "title": "Liver stiffness measurements in patients with HBV vs HCV chronic hepatitis: a comparative study.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurements in patients with HBV vs HCV chronic hepatitis: a comparative study. To assess the values of liver stiffness (LS) in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronic hepatitis and to compare them with those in patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) chronic hepatitis. The study included 140 patients with HBV chronic hepatitis, and 317 patients with HCV chronic hepatitis, in which LS was measured (FibroScan\u00ae-Echosens\u00ae) and liver biopsy was performed in the same session (assessed according to the Metavir score). According to the Metavir score of the 140 HBV patients: one had F0, 32 had F1, 67 had F2, 33 had F3 and 7 had F4. Of the 317 HCV patients: 5 had F0, 34 had F1, 146 had F2, 93 had F3 and 39 had F4. For the same severity of fibrosis, the mean values of LS in HBV patients were similar to those in HCV patients: F1, 6.5 \u00b1 1.9 kPa vs 5.8 \u00b1 2.1 kPa (P = 0.0889); F2, 7.1 \u00b1 2 kPa vs 6.9 \u00b1 2.5 kPa (P = 0.3369); F3, 9.1 \u00b1 3.6 kPa vs 9.9 \u00b1 5 kPa (P = 0.7038); F4, 19.8 \u00b1 8.6 kPa vs 17.3 \u00b1 6.1 kPa (P = 0.6574). A significant direct correlation between LS measurements and fibrosis was found in HCV patients (Spearman's r = 0.578, P < 0.0001), as well as in HBV patients (r = 0.408, P < 0.0001). The correlation was more significant in HCV than in HBV patients (Fisher's Z-test, Z = 2.210, P = 0.0271). In our group, the mean values of LS in patients with chronic B hepatitis were similar to those in patients with chronic HCV hepatitis, for the same stage of fibrosis. Also, LS was correlated with the severity of fibrosis both in HBV and HCV chronic hepatitis patients."}
{"id": "20939109", "title": "A new index for non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "A new index for non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis. To construct and evaluate a new non-invasive fibrosis index for assessment of the stage of liver fibrosis. A new fibrosis index (Fibro-Stiffness index) was developed in 165 of 285 patients with chronic hepatitis C, and was validated in the other 120 patients where liver biopsy was performed. Its usefulness was compared with liver stiffness (LS) measured by FibroScan, the aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index, the Forns index and the FibroIndex. The Fibro-Stiffness index consists of LS, platelet count and prothrombin time. The values of the Fibro-Stiffness index differed significantly between neighboring fibrosis stages except F0-F1. The area under the receiver operating characteristics curves of the Fibro-Stiffness index for prediction of F \u2265 2 (0.90), F \u2265 3 (0.90) and F = 4 (0.92) in the estimation group and those for F \u2265 3 (0.93) and F = 4 (0.97) in the validation group were the highest among the 5 methods examined. The accuracy of the Fibro-Stiffness index had highest values for F \u2265 2, F \u2265 3 and F = 4 in both the estimation and validation groups. The diagnostic performance for F = 4 was improved by a combination of the Fibro-Stiffness index with serum hyaluronic acid level. The Fibro-Stiffness index was constructed and validated. It showed superior diagnostic performance to other indices for F \u2265 2, 3 and 4."}
{"id": "20850886", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of FibroScan and comparison to liver fibrosis biomarkers in chronic viral hepatitis: a multicenter prospective study (the FIBROSTIC study).", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of FibroScan and comparison to liver fibrosis biomarkers in chronic viral hepatitis: a multicenter prospective study (the FIBROSTIC study). The diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive liver fibrosis tests that may replace liver biopsy in patients with chronic hepatitis remains controversial. We assessed and compared the accuracy of FibroScan\u00ae and that of the main biomarkers used for predicting cirrhosis and significant fibrosis (METAVIR \u2265 F2) in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. A multicenter prospective cross-sectional diagnostic accuracy study was conducted in the Hepatology departments of 23 French university hospitals. Index tests and reference standard (METAVIR fibrosis score on liver biopsy) were measured on the same day and interpreted blindly. Consecutive patients with chronic viral hepatitis (hepatitis B or C virus, including possible Human Immunodeficiency Virus co-infection) requiring liver biopsy were recruited in the study. The analysis was first conducted on the total population (1839 patients), and after excluding 532 protocol deviations, on 1307 patients (non-compliant FibroScan\u00ae examinations). The overall accuracy of FibroScan\u00ae was high (AUROC 0.89 and 0.90, respectively) and significantly higher than that of biomarkers in predicting cirrhosis (AUROC 0.77-0.86). All non-invasive methods had a moderate accuracy in predicting significant fibrosis (AUROC 0.72-0.78). Based on multilevel likelihood ratios, non-invasive tests provided a relevant gain in the likelihood of diagnosis in 0-60% of patients (cirrhosis) and 9-30% of patients (significant fibrosis). The diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests was high for cirrhosis, but poor for significant fibrosis. A clinically relevant gain in the likelihood of diagnosis was achieved in a low proportion of patients. Although the diagnosis of cirrhosis may rely on non-invasive tests, liver biopsy is warranted to diagnose intermediate stages of fibrosis."}
{"id": "20844365", "title": "Ultrasound-based hepatic elastography: origins, limitations, and applications.", "content": "Ultrasound-based hepatic elastography: origins, limitations, and applications. A reliable, noninvasive marker to help clinicians evaluate hepatic fibrosis is urgently needed. The liver biopsy, an imperfect gold standard, has recognized limitations including sampling error and interobserver variability. Hepatic elastography (HE) is a novel sonographic method for assessing liver stiffness and has excellent accuracy in making the diagnosis of minimal fibrosis and cirrhosis. Several conditions intrinsic to the pathology of the liver compromise the positive predictive value of HE for fibrosis alone including acute hepatitis, obstructive cholestasis, and passive congestion. Technical considerations that hinder the performance of elastography include an advanced body mass index, the presence of ascites and narrow intercostal spaces. Despite these limitations, elastography has a role in staging fibrosis, prognosis of disease outcome, surveillance, and treatment decisions. HE is now being used in lieu of liver biopsy to investigate the natural history of chronic liver diseases. Additional studies are required to better define the appropriate role of HE in clinical practice."}
{"id": "20828377", "title": "Comparison of ELF, FibroTest and FibroScan for the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Comparison of ELF, FibroTest and FibroScan for the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis. FibroTest (FT) is the most frequently used serum fibrosis marker and consists of an algorithm of five fibrosis markers (alfa2-macroglobulin, apolipoproteinA1, haptoglobin, GGT, bilirubin). The Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test consists of an algorithm of three fibrosis markers (hyaluronic acid, amino-terminal propeptide-of-type-III-collagen, tissue-inhibitor of matrix-metaloproteinase-1). While a systematic review has shown comparable results for both individual markers, there has been no direct comparison of both markers. In the present study, the ELF-test was analyzed retrospectively in patients with chronic liver disease, who received a liver biopsy, transient elastography (TE) and the FibroTest using histology as the reference method. Histology was classified according to METAVIR and the Ludwig's classification (F0-F4) for patients with chronic hepatitis C and B virus (HCV, HBV) infection and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), respectively. Seventy-four patients were analysed: 36 with HCV, 10 with HBV, and 28 with PBC. The accuracy (AUROC) for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (F\u22652) for ELF and FibroTest was 0.78 (95%CI:0.67-0.89) and 0.69 (95%-CI:0.57-0.82), respectively (difference not statistically significant, n.s.). The AUROC for the diagnosis of liver cirrhosis was 0.92 (95%CI:0.83-1,00), and 0.91 (95%CI:0.83-0.99), respectively (n.s.). For 66 patients with reliable TE measurements the AUROC for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (cirrhosis) for TE, ELF and FT were 0.80 (0.94), 0.76 (0.92), and 0.67 (0.91), respectively (n.s.). FibroTest and ELF can be performed with comparable diagnostic accuracy for the non-invasive staging of liver fibrosis. Serum tests are informative in a higher proportion of patients than transient elastography."}
{"id": "20807336", "title": "Prevalence, risk factors and causes of discordance in fibrosis staging by transient elastography and liver biopsy.", "content": "Prevalence, risk factors and causes of discordance in fibrosis staging by transient elastography and liver biopsy. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography (TE) is widely used for the noninvasive assessment of fibrosis. Our objectives were to examine the prevalence, risk factors and causes of discordance between fibrosis estimated by TE and liver biopsy. Two hundred and fifty-one patients with hepatitis B, C and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease underwent LSM by TE and liver biopsy. Predictors of discordance (\u22652 fibrosis stages) between measures, which occurred in 14% of patients (n=35), were identified by comparing patient, TE and biopsy characteristics of discordant and nondiscordant cases. According to predefined criteria, 40% of discordances were attributed to TE error and 23% to biopsy error; 37% were indeterminate. In multivariate analysis, mild fibrosis (F0-2 vs. F3-4), and higher body mass index (BMI), ALT and LSM variability [assessed by the ratio of the interquartile range to median LSM (IQR/M)] were independently associated with discordance. Discordance was three-fold more common in patients with obesity (28 vs. 9%), ALT \u226560 U/L (20 vs. 7%) and IQR/M \u22650.17 (22 vs. 7%; all P<0.005). Based on these variables, a discordance risk score assigning 1 point to each factor was developed. The prevalence of discordance in patients with 0, 1, 2 and 3 factors were 2, 7, 20, and 55% respectively (P<0.0005). Discordance between liver fibrosis estimated by TE and biopsy occurs in one in seven patients. In assessing the validity of TE results, clinicians must recognize risk factors for discordance and in at-risk patients, consider alternative measures including biomarkers and possibly biopsy."}
{"id": "20796156", "title": "Comparison of transient elastography, serum markers and clinical signs for the diagnosis of compensated cirrhosis.", "content": "Comparison of transient elastography, serum markers and clinical signs for the diagnosis of compensated cirrhosis. Non-invasive diagnosis of compensated cirrhosis is important. We therefore compared liver stiffness by transient elastography, APRI score, AST/ALT ratio, hyaluronic acid and clinical signs to determine which modality performed best at identifying compensated cirrhosis. Patients undergoing evaluation at a single center were recruited and had clinical, serological, endoscopy, radiological imaging, liver stiffness measurement and liver biopsy. Patients were stratified into cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic. In 404 patients (124 cirrhosis), transient elastography was diagnostically superior to the other modalities yielding an AUC 0.9 +/- 0.04 compared with hyaluronic acid (AUC 0.81 +/- 0.04: P < 0.05), clinical signs (AUC 0.74 +/- 0.04: P < 0.05), APRI score (AUC 0.71 +/- 0.03: P < 0.05) and AST/ALT ratio (AUC 0.66 +/- 0.03: P < 0.05). The optimum cut-off for transient elastography was 12 kPa giving a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 87% for cirrhosis. In 238 hepatitis C patients (87 cirrhosis), transient elastography yielded an AUC 0.899 +/- 0.02 for cirrhosis and in 166 non-HCV patients (37 cirrhosis) the results were similar with an AUC 0.928 +/- 0.03; with transient elastography being superior to HA, APRI, AST/ALT and clinical signs for all etiologies of cirrhosis (P < 0.05 for all). Importantly, transient elastography was statistically superior at identifying cirrhosis in 38 biopsy proven Childs Pugh A cirrhotics with no clinical, biochemical or radiological features of cirrhosis or portal hypertension (AUC 0.87 +/- 0.04). Transient elastography accurately identified compensated cirrhosis; a liver stiffness of >12 kPa represents an important clinical measurement for the diagnosis of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "20731129", "title": "[The diagnostic significance of ultrasound elastometry in evaluation of fibrosis in chronic diffuse liver diseases].", "content": "[The diagnostic significance of ultrasound elastometry in evaluation of fibrosis in chronic diffuse liver diseases]. Determination of the diagnostic value of ultrasound elastometry of liver (UEL) in the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic diffuse liver diseases (CDLD). The study involved 316 patients with various etiologies of the CDLD, with the underwent both liver biopsy, the UEL, and evaluation of fibrosis (F) according to the Metavir classification. The maximum diagnostic accuracy of the UEL was obtained in determining of the 4-th stage of fibrosis according to the Metavir. The accuracy of the method was 91% with a sensitivity of 100%. The lowest sensitivity of the UEL determined in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD): F1 - 25%, F2 - 33%, F3 and F4 - 50%. The High body mass index (BMI = 30,1 +/- 3,8 kg/m2) is a factor which is limiting the use of elastometry for patients NAFLD. The low sensitivity for F1 and F2 - 14,3% and 10%, respectively, 100% for F4, with a BMI = 24,4 +/- 5,1 kg/m2 was obtained in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). In the alcoholic liver disease (ALD) obtained high sensitivity (100%) for F2 and F4. In the CDLD of viral etiology the sensitivity of UEL was 33-71,4% in the early stages of fibrosis (F1 and F2) with high specificity - 100% and 93.5% respectively. The use of the UEL allows the diagnosis of fibrosis in chronic liver diseases of different etiologies as an alternative to needle biopsy of the liver."}
{"id": "20720270", "title": "Comparison of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) to liver biopsy histologic scores in the evaluation of chronic liver disease: A pilot study.", "content": "Comparison of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) to liver biopsy histologic scores in the evaluation of chronic liver disease: A pilot study. Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Imaging (ARFI) is a novel non invasive technique studying the localized mechanical properties of tissue by utilising short, high intensity acoustic pulses (shear wave pulses) to assess the mechanical response (tissue displacement), providing a measure of tissue elasticity. The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility of ARFI imaging as a non-invasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis compared to liver biopsy scores. A prospective blind comparison study of ARFI elastography (Virtual Touch Imaging., ACUSON S2000 Ultrasound Unit, Siemens, Mountain View CA) in a consecutive series of patients who underwent liver biopsy for assessment of fibrosis in chronic liver disease. ARFI shear-wave propagation velocity was measured in meters per second. Mean ARFI velocities were compared with both Batts-Ludwig (F0 to F4) and Modified Ishak scores (F0 to F4) for fibrosis in liver biopsy findings. Twenty-one patients with chronic liver disease (Hepatitis C (HCV) =16, Hepatitis B (HBV) = 1, both HCV and HBV = 1 Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) = 1, others = 2) underwent ARFI and liver biopsy on the same day. The Spearman correlation coefficients between the median values of the ARFI measurements and the histological fibrosis stage of the Modified Ishak score and Batts-Lud- (3) wig score were both highly significant (p < 0.01) with rho = 0.69 and rho = 0.72 respectively. The median ARFI (total 180 replications; minimum 5, maximum 10 measurements per patients) velocities for our study population range from 0.92 to 4.17 m/sec. Areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the accuracy of ARFI imaging was 1.00 and 0.35, for the diagnosis of moderate fibrosis (histologic fibrosis stage, F (3) 2) and 0.85 and 0.85 respectively for Ishak and Batts-Ludwig score, for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. ARFI imaging has a strong correlation with the fibrosis stage of both Batts-Ludwig and shak score in chronic liver disease. It.s accuracy in prediction of severe fibrosis and cirrhosis is maximal in comparison with earlier stages."}
{"id": "20713037", "title": "Optimization and robustness of blood tests for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.", "content": "Optimization and robustness of blood tests for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. To optimize the performance and feasibility of fibrosis blood tests and evaluate their robustness. The derivation population included 1056 HCV patients with liver biopsy and blood markers. Validation populations included 984 patients with various viral hepatitis causes, and Fibroscan and/or liver biopsy and/or blood markers. The bootstrap method validated the markers of the original FibroMeter(2G), but not those of Fibrotest and Hepascore, and provided a hyaluronate-free FibroMeter(3G). AUROCs for significant fibrosis were: FibroMeter(2G): 0.853 vs. FibroMeter(3G): 0.851, p=0.489. Compared to FibroMeter(2G), FibroMeter(3G) had a significantly higher patient rate with predictive values \u226590% for significant fibrosis. Accuracy for fibrosis stage classification was: Fibrotest: 37.9%, FibroMeter(2G): 74.9%, and FibroMeter(3G): 86.9% (p<10(-3)). The bootstrap method validated FibroMeter(2G) and provided a cheaper and more feasible hyaluronate-free FibroMeter(3G) with comparable performance. Compared to binary diagnosis, fibrosis stage classification increased discrimination, with an increased accuracy to 87% for FibroMeter(3G)."}
{"id": "20704691", "title": "Noninvasive tests for evaluation of fibrosis in HCV recurrence after liver transplantation: a systematic review.", "content": "Noninvasive tests for evaluation of fibrosis in HCV recurrence after liver transplantation: a systematic review. Noninvasive tests (NIT) for evaluation of hepatic fibrosis have not been evaluated extensively in liver transplantation. We systematically reviewed the literature regarding NIT after liver transplantation. We identified 14 studies evaluating NIT based on serum markers and/or liver imaging techniques: 10 studies assessed NIT in recipients with recurrent HCV infection for fibrosis and four studies evaluated predictors of progression of fibrosis in recurrent HCV. Transient Elastography (TE) had good discrimination for significant fibrosis (median AUROC: 0.88). Among the serum NIT, APRI had good performance (median AUROC: 0.75). TE performed better than serum (direct and indirect) NIT for significant fibrosis with median AUROC 0.88 (vs. 0.66, P < 0.001), median sensitivity 0.86 (vs. 0.56, P = 0.002), median NPV 0.90 (vs. 0.74, P = 0.05) and median PPV 0.80 (vs. 0.63, P = 0.02). TE compared to indirect serum NIT, had better performance, but was not superior to APRI score. Finally, direct, compared to indirect NIT, were not significantly different except for specificity: median: 0.83 vs. 0.69, respectively, P = 0.04. In conclusion, NIT could become an important tool in clinical management of liver transplant recipients, but whether they can improve clinical practice needs further evidence. Their optimal combination with liver biopsy and assessment of collagen content requires investigation."}
{"id": "20682514", "title": "Noninvasive tests for liver disease, fibrosis, and cirrhosis: Is liver biopsy obsolete?", "content": "Noninvasive tests for liver disease, fibrosis, and cirrhosis: Is liver biopsy obsolete? Liver biopsy has been used to diagnose chronic liver disease and to assess the degree of hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. However, it is an invasive test with many possible complications and the potential for sampling error. Noninvasive tests are increasingly precise in identifying the cause of many cases of liver disease and even the amount of liver injury (fibrosis). This review discusses the role of noninvasive tests to diagnose liver disease and to assess hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis."}
{"id": "20660455", "title": "New noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: maximal accumulative respiration strain.", "content": "New noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B: maximal accumulative respiration strain. A novel parameter acquired from conventional B-mode sonographic videos was introduced in this study, and its diagnostic accuracy for evaluation of hepatic fibrosis was investigated. Twenty-eight patients with chronic hepatitis B and 8 patients with hepatic cysts in the right lobe (controls) were enrolled. B-mode sonographic videos of hepatic motion under the ensisternum in the sagittal plane were captured during peaceful breathing. Maximal accumulative respiration strain (MARS) values of hepatic tissue were obtained after image analysis. METAVIR scoring after liver biopsy was considered the standard. First, the relationship between MARS and the fibrotic stage was studied; and second, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the accuracy of MARS for evaluation of the fibrotic stage. When the transducer was placed in the sagittal imaging plane under the ensisternum during the whole respiratory period, the hepatic tissue motion was almost in the same plane. The MARS values (mean +/- SD) were 29.44% +/- 10.44% in the F0 group (no fibrosis; n = 8), 19.30% +/- 9.10% in the F1 group (portal fibrosis without septa; n = 8), 18.09% +/- 7.36% in the F2-F3 group (portal fibrosis with few septa or numerous septa without cirrhosis; n = 12), and 14.16% +/- 4.18% in the F4 group (cirrhosis; n = 8). The Spearman correlation coefficient between MARS and the fibrotic stage was 0.516 (P = .001). The diagnostic accuracy rates, expressed as areas under the ROC curves, were 0.87 for mild fibrosis (F >or= 1), 0.72 for substantial fibrosis (F >or= 2), and 0.75 for cirrhosis (F = 4). Maximal accumulative respiration strain attained from B-mode sonographic videos of hepatic tissue is a new, convenient, economical, and promising noninvasive parameter for assessment of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B."}
{"id": "20658587", "title": "Transient elastography in the assessment of liver fibrosis in adult thalassemia patients.", "content": "Transient elastography in the assessment of liver fibrosis in adult thalassemia patients. Transient elastography (TE) is a valuable noninvasive technique of measuring liver stiffness and a reliable tool for predicting hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease. The role of TE in patients with beta-thalassemia has not been extensively investigated. The present study aimed to evaluate the role of TE in the assessment of hepatic fibrosis in 115 adult patients with beta-thalassemia major (TM) (#59) or intermedia (TI) (#56). TE was performed according to current practice. Histologic data were obtained in 14 cases. Liver iron concentration was assessed by atomic absorption spectrometry and T2 magnetic resonance. In patients with TM, the proportion of anti-HCV positive viremic patients, median serum ferritin levels, and TE values were significantly higher than in TI. In the group of 14 patients who underwent liver biopsy, a significant positive correlation was observed between liver stiffness and fibrosis stage (r = 0.73, P = 0.003). Severe fibrosis is diagnosed with a sensitivity of 60% and a specificity of 89%, whereas cirrhosis is detected with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 92%. At multivariate analysis, the variables independently associated with TE were ALT, GGT, and bilirubin levels in both groups and, in patients with TM, HCV RNA positivity. In beta-thalassemia patients, TE is a reliable tool for assessing liver fibrosis even if the influence of iron overload has to be clarified."}
{"id": "20617863", "title": "Hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C assessed by transient elastography: implications for determining the efficacy of antiviral therapy.", "content": "Hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C assessed by transient elastography: implications for determining the efficacy of antiviral therapy. The efficacy of combination therapy with peginterferon plus ribavirin to eradicate viral infection in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) is well established; moreover, it is able to arrest or even reverse liver fibrosis. To analyze the measurements of hepatic stiffness as an index of liver fibrosis using transient elastography (TE) in patients who underwent a sustained virological response (SVR) during long-term follow-up; comparing the changes in the severity of fibrosis with non-responders patients. After hepatic fibrosis was studied in three patients with CHC who underwent a SVR during long-term follow up, a prospective study was initiated in 24 patients with CHC who received combination therapy to compare the evolution of fibrosis in those with SVR and those who were non-responders. The genotype of hepatitis C virus (HCV) and the degree of viremia were determined. METAVIR scoring system was used for liver fibrosis. Hepatic stiffness was measured by TE. Of the initial three patients pre-treatment liver biopsies revealed active disease and fibrosis (stage 3) in two and mild fibrosis (stage 1) in one. After several years of follow up serum AST/ALT levels were normal and HCV RNA was undetectable in each case; in contrast to the baseline histological assessments of fibrosis, values for hepatic stiffness (3.4-6.9 KPa) were compatible with an absence of any appreciable hepatic fibrosis. In the prospective study, 8 patients underwent a SVR and 16 were non-responders. TE indicated that the severity of hepatic fibrosis in the SVR group improved in 7 (88%) patients, whereas in the non-responder it improved in only 4 (25%) (p < 0.05). The difference between development of severe fibrosis (F > or = 3) in responders and non-responders was not significant (p = 0.23), possibly due to the small sample size. Regression of hepatic fibrosis appears to be common in patients with CHC who undergo a SVR. TE is a simple non-invasive technique that enables multiple assessments of the severity of hepatic fibrosis to be made efficiently during long-term follow-up of patients with CHC who receive combination antiviral therapy."}
{"id": "20587855", "title": "Biomarkers of liver injury for hepatitis clinical trials: a meta-analysis of longitudinal studies.", "content": "Biomarkers of liver injury for hepatitis clinical trials: a meta-analysis of longitudinal studies. Liver biopsy and virological end points are standard references for assessing the effect of viral hepatitis treatments. We aimed to review evidence-based published data of biomarkers that have been validated as non-invasive alternatives to biopsy as end points for HBV and HCV infection trials. Studies were included if there were at least two repeated estimates of fibrosis per patient using biomarkers with at least two studies and a control group. Meta-analysis of the percentage of fibrosis progression per year (pFPy) was performed. Two biomarkers were included, FibroTest and liver stiffness measurement (LSM; FibroScan. A total of 1,413 patients with chronic hepatitis C (11 populations) and 772 with chronic hepatitis B (6 populations) were analysed. In a comparison of HCV patients with controls, the FibroTest pFPy was -18% (95% confidence interval [CI] -23--14; P<0.001) in treated patients and the LSM pFPy was -15% (95% CI -28--1; P=0.01), both with differences according to virological responses. In HBV patients, there was a significant decrease of the pFPy only in patients with baseline advanced fibrosis (mean difference -5% [95% CI -10--0.1]; P=0.02). In patients with advanced fibrosis, stratified by virological response, there were similar differences between pFPy estimated either using FibroTest or biopsy, both in HCV and HBV infections. Repeated LSM in HBV patients had an early variability related to necroinflammatory activity. In patients with chronic hepatitis C and B, the treatment effect on fibrosis progression rate was similarly estimated using FibroTest or biopsy. The same concordance was observed for FibroScan but with a possible overestimation of the fibrosis regression during the first weeks of treatment."}
{"id": "20561029", "title": "Assessment of liver stiffness in subjects affected by familial combined hyperlipidaemia with hepatic steatosis.", "content": "Assessment of liver stiffness in subjects affected by familial combined hyperlipidaemia with hepatic steatosis. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum of diseases ranging from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and is associated with familial combined hyperlipidaemia (FCHL). Currently, the invasive liver biopsy is considered as the gold standard for evaluating liver fibrosis (LF); however, liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography (TE) trough FibroScan device may be employed to estimate LF noninvasively. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of NAFLD in FCHL subjects and to analyse LSM with TE to better identify those individuals with a potential risk of liver disease progression. Sixty subjects with FCHL (38 men, 22 women, mean age 46.4 +/- 10.9 years) were included in the study. We studied biochemical parameters including lipid profile, glucose, transaminase and insulin; blood pressure and waist circumference (WC) were measured; BMI and HOMA-index were calculated. Ultrasonography was performed to assess liver steatosis and carotid intima-media thickness (IMT). Liver fibrosis was measured by FibroScan. Patients were classified according to have no (group 0: 19%), mild (group 1: 32%) or moderate-severe (group 2: 49%) steatosis. No difference was found between group 0 and 1 concerning all study parameters. WC (P < 0.05), BMI (P < 0.05), glucose (P < 0.05), insulin (P < 0.001), HOMA-index (P < 0.001) and LSM (6.03 +/- 1.9 Kpa vs. 4.2 +/- 0.5 Kpa, P < 0.001) were significantly higher in group 2 than groups 1 and 0. Furthermore, LSM correlated with insulin (P < 0.05), glucose (P < 0.05), HOMA-index (P < 0.001), transaminase (P < 0.01) and liver steatosis (P < 0.001). Regression analysis showed that LSM (P < 0.001) and NAFLD (P < 0.01) is associated with HOMA-index; NAFLD is also associated with WC (P < 0.05). Our results suggest that in FCHL subjects, HOMA-index, an insulin resistance index, is strongly associated with liver steatosis and its progression. Furthermore, in these subjects, we propose the transient elastography to identify and follow up patients for the progression of hepatic disease."}
{"id": "20544947", "title": "Magnetic resonance elastography: a review.", "content": "Magnetic resonance elastography: a review. Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) is a rapidly developing technology for quantitatively assessing the mechanical properties of tissue. The technology can be considered to be an imaging-based counterpart to palpation, commonly used by physicians to diagnose and characterize diseases. The success of palpation as a diagnostic method is based on the fact that the mechanical properties of tissues are often dramatically affected by the presence of disease processes, such as cancer, inflammation, and fibrosis. MRE obtains information about the stiffness of tissue by assessing the propagation of mechanical waves through the tissue with a special magnetic resonance imaging technique. The technique essentially involves three steps: (1) generating shear waves in the tissue, (2) acquiring MR images depicting the propagation of the induced shear waves, and (3) processing the images of the shear waves to generate quantitative maps of tissue stiffness, called elastograms. MRE is already being used clinically for the assessment of patients with chronic liver diseases and is emerging as a safe, reliable, and noninvasive alternative to liver biopsy for staging hepatic fibrosis. MRE is also being investigated for application to pathologies of other organs including the brain, breast, blood vessels, heart, kidneys, lungs, and skeletal muscle. The purpose of this review article is to introduce this technology to clinical anatomists and to summarize some of the current clinical applications that are being pursued."}
{"id": "20529989", "title": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: US-based acoustic radiation force impulse elastography.", "content": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: US-based acoustic radiation force impulse elastography. To investigate the clinical usefulness of ultrasonography-based acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography (ie, ARFI sonoelastography) in patients with a diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and compare ARFI sonoelastography results with transient sonoelastography and serum fibrosis marker test results. Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects, and the local ethics committee approved the study. Fifty-four patients with a liver biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of NAFLD (mean age, 50.6 years +/- 13.7) were examined. All patients with NAFLD and healthy volunteers underwent ARFI sonoelastography, transient sonoelastography, and serum liver fibrosis marker testing (hyaluronic acids, type IV collagen 7 S domain). Ten healthy volunteers underwent ARFI sonoelastography. ARFI sonoelastography results were compared with liver biopsy findings, the reference standard. ARFI sonoelastography findings were compared with liver biopsy, transient sonoelastography, and serum fibrosis marker test results. Student t testing was used for univariate comparisons; Kruskal-Wallis testing, for assessments involving more than two independent groups; and areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (A(z)), to assess the sensitivity and specificity of ARFI sonoelastography for detection of stage 3 and stage 4 fibrosis. Median velocities in the patients with NAFLD were 1.040 m/sec for those with stage 0 fibrosis, 1.120 m/sec for those with stage 1, 1.130 m/sec for those with stage 2, 1.780 m/sec for those with stage 3, and 2.180 m/sec for those with stage 4. The A(z) for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis stages 3 or higher was 0.973 (optimal cutoff value, 1.77 m/sec; sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 91%), while that for the diagnosis of stage 4 fibrosis was 0.976 (optimal cutoff value, 1.90 m/sec; sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 96%). Significant correlations between median velocity measured by using ARFI sonoelastography and the following parameters were observed: liver stiffness measured with transient sonoelastography (r = 0.75, P < .0001), serum level of hyaluronic acid(r = 0.459, P = .0009), and serum level of type IV collagen 7 S domain (r = 0.445, P = .0015). There is a significant positive correlation between median velocity measured by using ARFI sonoelastography and severity of liver fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. The results of ARFI sonoelastography were similar to those of transient sonoelastography."}
{"id": "20515796", "title": "Circulating fibrocytes as a marker of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Circulating fibrocytes as a marker of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Surrogate markers of liver fibrosis are needed as an alternative to liver biopsy, which is invasive and life-threatening. Peripheral blood fibrocytes (PBF) are considered to be involved in systemic fibrogenic processes. We measured the level of PBF in patients with chronic hepatitis C by enrolling 70 patients affected with chronic hepatitis C, 20 patients with HCV-positive decompensated cirrhosis and 30 healthy volunteers. All patients underwent liver biopsy and Fibroscan for fibrosis assessment. Patients with chronic hepatitis C had significantly higher levels of PBF in comparison with healthy individuals and decompensated cirrhotics. Patients in the F0-F1 stage had a percentage of PBF of 23.3+/-4%, significantly lower (p<0.001) than in F2 and F3 stages. Patients in the F4 stage had a PBF rate of 50.6+/-2% (p<0.001 versus the F0, F1 and F2 stages). The percentage of PBF correlated positively with the Metavir score and the liver stiffness as measured by Fibroscan. PBF are increased in patients with HCV infection and correlate with the histological stage of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "20496758", "title": "[Real-time tissue elastography in chronic liver disease].", "content": "[Real-time tissue elastography in chronic liver disease]. In patients with chronic liver diseases, the histological classification of liver fibrosis is essential for predicting prognosis and selecting appropriate antiviral therapy. This study aimed to determine the usefulness of a new noninvasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis by using real-time tissue elastography, which can be performed with conventional ultrasound probes. Thirty-nine patients who had liver fibrosis and had undergone liver resection or liver biopsy were included in this study. The surgical specimens obtained were examined to determine the histological stage of liver fibrosis. The strain ratio of subcutaneous fat tissue to liver tissue was calculated. We examined the correlation between the strain ratio and the histological liver fibrosis stage, and compared the utility with various surrogate liver fibrosis markers. The strain ratio significantly differed with the stage of liver fibrosis, and they had significant correlation (Kruskal-Wallis test: p<0.0001; Spearman's rank correlation, p<0.0001, r=0.797). We identified 5.8 and 3.7 as the cutoff values of strain ratio for the diagnosis of cirrhosis and significant fibrosis. The sensitivity at these values was 92.9% and 81.9% respectively; the specificity, 96.0% and 88.9%; and the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROCs), 0.977 and 0.913, respectively. The AUROC was superior to the other surrogate liver fibrosis markers tested. Real-time tissue elastography is a useful method for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic liver diseases."}
{"id": "20492510", "title": "A novel liver stiffness measurement-based prediction model for cirrhosis in hepatitis B patients.", "content": "A novel liver stiffness measurement-based prediction model for cirrhosis in hepatitis B patients. While liver stiffness measurement (LSM) predicts histological cirrhosis accurately, complementary methods are needed for better performance. Furthermore, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) influences LSM, making it necessary to modify its use in patients with high ALT levels. We developed a new LSM-based prediction model for cirrhosis and estimated the thresholds for different ALT levels. From 2008 to 2009, we prospectively enrolled 330 consecutive patients who were diagnosed with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and underwent a liver biopsy and LSM on the same day. For detection of cirrhosis, we performed univariate and multivariate analyses, using the chi(2)-test/t-test and logistic regression respectively. Thereafter, a prediction model was derived from multivariate predictors. In multivariate analyses of patients with and without cirrhosis, we found significant differences in the LSM, spleen diameter and platelet count. Then, we developed an LSM-spleen diameter to platelet ratio index (LSPI): (LSM x spleen diameter/platelet count) x 100. The area under the receiver operating curve was 0.956, significantly higher than LSM alone (0.919, P=0.032). We suggested different thresholds in patients with ALT< or = upper limit of normal (ULN) (normal-ALT group, 164 patients) and ALT>ULN (high-ALT group, 166 patients). In the normal-ALT group, LSPI thresholds of 38 and 62 provided 95.7% negative predictive value (NPV) and a 95.5% PPV (positive predictive value), while in the high-ALT group, thresholds of 42 and 94 yielded 95.1% NPV and 96.4% PPV respectively. Therefore, liver biopsy could be avoided in 76.7% of the subjects. LSPI is a useful, non-invasive tool that can replace liver biopsy in the assessment of liver fibrosis in the majority of CHB patients."}
{"id": "20491742", "title": "Factors that affect the diagnostic accuracy of liver fibrosis measurement by Fibroscan in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Factors that affect the diagnostic accuracy of liver fibrosis measurement by Fibroscan in patients with chronic hepatitis B. Interquartile range/median value (IQR/M) of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) is a factor in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) leading to over estimation of fibrosis by Fibroscan. To investigate factors that affect the accuracy of LSM in chronic hepatitis B (CHB). One hundred and ninety-nine patients were enrolled. Only procedures yielding > or =10 valid measurements were considered reliable. Liver fibrosis was evaluated using the Batts and Ludwig system. Liver biopsy (LB) specimens <15 mm were considered ineligible. The mean age (142 men and 57 women) was 40.1 years. A significant discordance (discordance of at least two stages between LB and LSM) was identified in 38 (19.1%) and 47 (23.6%) patients respectively, according to Marcellin et al. and Chan et al.'s cutoff values. In multivariate analyses, BMI and fibrosis stage (F0-2 vs. F3-4) were identified as independent predictors for significant discordance (P = 0.040; hazard ratio [HR], 1.126; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.005-1.261 and P = 0.036; HR, 0.450; 95% CI, 0.213-0.949 respectively) with Marcellin et al.'s cutoffs, whereas fibrosis stage was the only independent predictor (P = 0.004; HR, 0.300; 95% CI, 0.131-0.685) with Chan's cutoffs. Success rate and IQR/M were not predictive factors of the accuracy for diagnosing liver fibrosis by Fibroscan in CHB. Fibrosis stage (F0-2) was the only factor to predict significant discordance between LB and LSM."}
{"id": "20471892", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate. This study was designed to assess the degree of liver fibrosis with transient elastography and noninvasive biochemical methods in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate. We reviewed the medical records of rheumatoid arthritis patients who were administered methotrexate for more than 3 years. Transient elastography was performed and serological markers of liver fibrosis were evaluated by prospectively and was compared with the result of healthy control group. A correlation of the cumulative dose of methotrexate with the elastography value (kPa) or the level of serological markers was assessed. Two subgroups of patients were compared; patients who received a cumulative dose of methotrexate of less than 4000 mg (group 1) and more than 4000 mg (group 2). A total of 177 consecutive rheumatoid arthritis patients were evaluated. The mean cumulative dose of methotrexate was 3988 \u00b1 1566 mg with doses ranging from 652.5 to 10,415 mg. The mean elastography value of all patients was 4.01 \u00b1 0.77 kPa. The kilopascal values and levels of biochemical markers did not correlate with the cumulative dose of methotrexate, but did correlate with the AST to ALT ratio, AST to platelet ratio index, haptoglobin level. Mean kilopascal values were not statistically different for group 1 and group 2 patients. For rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with a high cumulative dose of methotrexate, significant liver fibrosis is rare and is not accurately detected in patients with liver enzyme abnormalities. Taking into account the risk and benefit of a liver biopsy, transient elastography can be recommended as an additional diagnostic option."}
{"id": "20471720", "title": "[Retrospective study of FibroScan, APRI, FIB-4 and FORNS indexes compared with liver biopsy in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C monoinfection and HIV coinfection].", "content": "[Retrospective study of FibroScan, APRI, FIB-4 and FORNS indexes compared with liver biopsy in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C monoinfection and HIV coinfection]. To assess the ability of FibroScan (FS) and the APRI, FIB-4 and FORNS indexes to predict liver fibrosis (LF), using liver biopsy as the gold standard. LF stage was determined in 154 patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection using the METAVIR system. Fibroscan measurements and blood samples were taken simultaneously with biopsy. The tests were evaluated using ROC curves and the concordance, sensitivity, specificity and predictive values and likelihood ratios. Significantly higher LF stages were found in older patients and in those with HIV coinfection. FS and FIB-4 were able to predict significant LF> or =1 and more than 94% of patients with FS>6.7 kPas or FIB-4>1.3 had LF> or =1 in liver biopsy, with low sensitivities (63% FS; 56% Fib-4). For the detection of LF> or =2, all the tests had significant predictive capacity and between 77% and 86% of the patients with FS>6.8 kPas, APRI>0.6, FIB-4>1.4 and FORNS>5.6 had LF> or =2, with low sensitivities (70%FS; 54%APRI; 59%FIB-4; 54%FORNS). All tests had high negative predictive values (91-92%) and specificities (86-92%) in the detection of advanced fibrosis (FH=4). All tests were acceptable in predicting the presence or absence of mild fibrosis (LF> or =2) and the absence of advanced fibrosis (LF=2). However, the low or moderate agreement with liver biopsy and low sensitivities in the detection of mild fibrosis indicate that liver biopsy continues to be required when the results of other methods are discordant or indeterminate."}
{"id": "20458851", "title": "Hepatic amyloidosis increases liver stiffness measured by transient elastography.", "content": "Hepatic amyloidosis increases liver stiffness measured by transient elastography. Liver stiffness values in transient elastography (TE) have to be interpreted with caution. Steatosis, congestion, acute inflammation and extrahepatic cholestasis can indeed influence measurements. Obtained stiffness values in the cirrhotic range can also be present in the absence of fibrosis as in hepatic amyloidosis. Here we report two cases of systemic amyloidosis with hepatic involvement where high stiffness values were measured at TE. In fact, deposits of amyloid may increase the rigidity of the liver parenchyma resulting in higher liver stiffness values. Therefore, results of TE should always be interpreted in their clinical context and if inconsistent, the performance of a liver biopsy might be necessary."}
{"id": "20455345", "title": "Diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis. Liver biopsy is not always necessary.", "content": "Diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis. Liver biopsy is not always necessary. Needle biopsy of the liver is considered the \"gold-standard\" for diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis. However, it is not risk-free, lacks accuracy, and is poorly accepted by some patients. This review examines available literature on the use and diagnostic performance of non-invasive methods for assessment of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis in adults, based on the standard Prescrire methodology. Transient elastography (FibroScan) measures liver stiffness in kilopascals. The results are less reliable in patients with a thick chest wall, hepatic congestion of cardiac origin, and acute exacerbations of hepatitis. Transient elastography has been evaluated in more than 8000 patients, most of whom had chronic hepatitis C. With a cutoff value of about 7-8 kPa, elastography identified about 70% of patients with histological signs of moderate to severe fibrosis. With a cutoff of 14-15 kPa, it identified about 85% of patients with histological signs of cirrhosis. Transient elastography is reliable in detecting moderate to severe fibrosis and cirrhosis and in ruling out cirrhosis, but is less reliable in ruling out moderate fibrosis. Composite scores based on blood assay values and complex calculations are unreliable when at least one of the score components is influenced by intercurrent conditions. FibroTest, FibroMeter and Hepascore have been tested in several thousand patients with chronic hepatitis C. With the manufacturers' recommended cutoff values, FibroTest identifies about 70% of patients with histological signs of moderate to severe fibrosis and about 90% of patients with histological signs of cirrhosis. It can reliably diagnose or rule out moderate fibrosis, and diagnose cirrhosis. It is also very reliable in ruling out cirrhosis. Hepascore has similar diagnostic performance. FibroMeter has been less extensively evaluated but also seems to have diagnostic performance similar to that of FibroTest. Some studies suggest that FibroTest has similar accuracy in forms of liver fibrosis other than chronic hepatitis C. In practice, the main issue involved in making therapeutic decisions in patients with chronic hepatitis C is the risk-benefit balance of available treatments rather than precise diagnosis of fibrosis."}
{"id": "20428950", "title": "Comparison of surrogate serum markers and transient elastography (Fibroscan) for assessing cirrhosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis.", "content": "Comparison of surrogate serum markers and transient elastography (Fibroscan) for assessing cirrhosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. Progressive hepatic fibrosis with development of cirrhosis is a feature of almost all chronic liver diseases. We assessed the performance of Fibroscan in patients with chronic viral hepatitis, and in comparison with and combined with several surrogate serum markers for predicting cirrhosis. In this prospective multicenter cohort study, a novel panel of serum markers was constructed and serum levels of surrogate markers of liver fibrosis and Fibroscan were compared with the stage of fibrosis in the liver biopsy specimens obtained from 121 subjects with chronic viral hepatitis. Another 159 patients were enrolled to validate the diagnostic accuracy of this novel panel. Multivariate analysis identified platelet count and procollagen III N-terminal peptide (PIIINP) as independent predictors of liver cirrhosis. The PP score (combining of platelet count and PIIINP) showed significantly better diagnostic accuracy (areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves, AUROC: 0.885) than that of previously reported serologic tests, including APRI, Forns fibrosis index, FIB-4 index and ELF algorithm, in the validation group (AUROC: 0.792, 0.740, 0.800, and 0.775, respectively). The AUROC of Fibroscan was 0.743 and the best performance was obtained by combining Fibroscan, platelet count and PIIINP, with an AUROC of 0.826. However, there was no significant difference among the AUROCs of Fibroscan alone, PP score, the combination of Fibroscan and PP score, and previously reported serologic tests in the estimation group. Fibroscan and surrogate serum markers had similar accuracy for predicting cirrhosis, and combining Fibroscan and serum markers did not improve the accuracy."}
{"id": "20385422", "title": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of liver surface and transient elastography in clinically doubtful cirrhosis.", "content": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of liver surface and transient elastography in clinically doubtful cirrhosis. Both transient elastography (TE) and left lobe liver surface (LLS) ultrasound may non-invasively detect cirrhosis (LC). We aimed to examine the diagnostic value of these methods in patients with a suspicion but not a definite diagnosis of cirrhosis. We enrolled 90 patients with clinical suspicion of cirrhosis and a strong co-existing differential diagnosis requiring further invasive evaluation. They underwent hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) measurement+/-transjugular liver biopsy, LLS and TE. Images of LLS were digitally post-processed to obtain a numerical value (quantitative LLS, qLLS). TE<12kPa was considered to exclude LC, 18kPa diagnosed LC, and 12-18kPa indeterminate. Technical failures were considered 'indeterminate'. Diagnosis of cirrhosis was confirmed by histology (84%) or by clinical data and HVPG10mm Hg. Diagnostic accuracy was evaluated by positive and negative likelihood ratios (+LR and -LR). Cirrhosis was diagnosed in 44 patients. There were 14 technical failures with TE and 1 with LLS (p=0.001). TE and LLS had similar diagnostic accuracy but gave complementary information: TE was mildly more accurate than LLS to rule out LC (-LR: 0.08 vs. 0.10), while it was less accurate to rule it in (+LR 5.05 vs. 11.15). Their combination offered the best diagnostic performance (+LR 9.15; -LR 0.06). LLS is more technically applicable than TE. In patients with clinical suspicion of cirrhosis, LLS is the best non-invasive method to diagnose cirrhosis, while TE is preferable to rule it out. The combination of both holds the best diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "20361076", "title": "Performance of unidimensional transient elastography in staging non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.", "content": "Performance of unidimensional transient elastography in staging non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Transient elastography (TE) is a noninvasive method for predicting liver fibrosis, mainly validated in patients with viral hepatitis. Information is still limited concerning its performance in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients. We aimed to assess the value of TE in the prediction of fibrosis stage in NASH as well as the factors determining the discordance between the TE-predicted and the biopsy-proven fibrosis stage in these patients. Liver biopsy and TE were performed on 72 consecutive NASH patients. Fibrosis, lobular inflammation, ballooning and steatosis were evaluated (Brunt system). Liver stiffness (LS) values ranged from 2.80 to 16.90 kPa. In the univariate analysis, LS was correlated with fibrosis (r=0.661; p<0.0001), steatosis (r=0.435, p<0.0001), ballooning (r=0.385; p=0.001) and lobular inflammation (r=0.364; p=0.002). In multivariate analysis, only fibrosis significantly correlated with LS (p<0.0001). The median (and range) LS values (kPa) according to the fibrosis stages were: 4.90 (2.80-7.30) for F0; 6.15 (4.80-12.50) for F1; 6.90 (3.30-16.90) for F2 and 14.00 (10.70-14.10) for F3, with significant difference between stages, except for F1-F2 (p=0.249). Cut off values were calculated for predicting each fibrosis stage: 5.3 kPa (AUROC=0.879) for F1; 6.8 kPa (AUROC=0.789) for F2; and 10.4 kPa (AUROC=0.978) for F3. Patients with false-positive results had a significantly higher ALT level than those with concordant results (p=0.039). In NASH patients, TE allows a reliable assessment and prediction of liver fibrosis, especially in advanced stages. Steatosis, ballooning and inflammation do not influence liver stiffness."}
{"id": "20331759", "title": "Correlation of transient elastography with APRI and FIB-4 in a cohort of patients with congenital bleeding disorders and HCV or HIV/HCV coinfection.", "content": "Correlation of transient elastography with APRI and FIB-4 in a cohort of patients with congenital bleeding disorders and HCV or HIV/HCV coinfection. Patients with inherited bleeding disorders frequently suffer from chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) mono- or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/HCV coinfection. Non-invasive markers for liver fibrosis are warranted for these patients. We tested a large cohort of haemophilic patients with HCV mono- or HIV/HCV coinfection for correlation of transient elastography (TE) with two simple surrogate markers of liver fibrosis and for differences in fibrosis stages according to these markers. We prospectively enrolled HCV-positive patients with congenital bleeding disorders with or without HIV coinfection. Liver function tests and platelet counts were determined and TE was performed. Aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI) and a simple index called FIB-4 were calculated and results were correlated with TE. A total number of 174 patients were included (23% HCV, 36% HIV/HCV coinfected, 33% with cleared HCV and 8% with ongoing HIV but cleared HCV). TE correlated significantly with APRI and FIB-4 (r = 0.60; P < 0.001 and r = 0.54; P < 0.001 respectively). This correlation was pronounced in patients with ongoing HCV infection (r = 0.67; P < 0.001 and r = 0.60; P < 0.001). Prediction of advanced fibrosis resulted in concordance rates >80% with combinations of TE plus APRI and APRI plus FIB-4. HIV/HCV coinfected patients did not present with advanced fibrosis stages when compared with HCV-monoinfected patients. Combinations of two non-invasive markers may significantly reduce the number of liver biopsies in patients with bleeding disorders and advanced liver fibrosis. Furthermore, our data support previous studies that observed a favourable outcome in patients with HIV/HCV and a preserved immune function in times of highly active antiretroviral therapy."}
{"id": "20306380", "title": "Measurement of liver elasticity with acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) technology: an alternative noninvasive method for staging liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis.", "content": "Measurement of liver elasticity with acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) technology: an alternative noninvasive method for staging liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis. The acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) technology is a novel ultrasound method that provides information about the local elasticity of tissue in real-time. ARFI is integrated in a conventional ultrasound system. The aim of this exploratory study was to evaluate this new technique in the assessment of liver fibrosis in a cohort with chronic viral hepatitis B and C and to ascertain the most reliable hepatic segment for measurements. 57 patients (27 female, 30 male, mean age 54 years) with chronic viral hepatitis B and C underwent ARFI imaging and consecutively liver biopsy. The results were compared to the histological fibrosis degree (F), which served as the reference. 20 healthy volunteers received ARFI quantification of different segments of the liver. The best ARFI assessments with the lowest rate of invalid measurements were carried out by an intercostal approach to segment VII/VIII of the liver. The ARFI velocities of the healthy group had a mean of 1.09 m/s (range 0.79 - 1.32 m/s), the means of the patient group ranged from 0.83 to 4.19 m/s. ARFI quantification correlated significantly with the histological fibrosis stage (p < 0.001). The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for the accuracy of ARFI imaging was 85 %, 92 % and 87 % for the diagnosis of moderate fibrosis (>or= F2), severe fibrosis (>or= F3) and cirrhosis ( = F 4), respectively. This study underscores the usefulness of ARFI as a quick method for assessing liver fibrosis or cirrhosis in patients with HBV or HCV. ARFI measurements of the liver should be performed via an intercostal access. Increasing ARFI velocities correlate with higher degree of hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "20222092", "title": "Nonobese population in a developing country has a high prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver and significant liver disease.", "content": "Nonobese population in a developing country has a high prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver and significant liver disease. There is a paucity of community-based epidemiological data on nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) among nonaffluent populations in developing countries. Available studies are radiological and/or biochemical and lack histological assessment, limiting their strength. We conducted a prospective epidemiological study comprising a 1:3 subsample of all adult (>18 years) inhabitants of a rural administrative unit of West Bengal, India. Subjects positive for hepatitis B virus and/or hepatitis C virus infection and consuming any amount of alcohol were excluded. Diagnosis of NAFL was by dual radiological screening protocol consisting of ultrasonographic and computed tomographic examination of the liver. Transient elastographic examination and liver biopsy were performed in a subset to identify significant liver disease. The risk factors of having NAFL were analyzed. A total of 1,911 individuals were analyzed, 7% of whom were overweight and 11% of whom had abdominal obesity. The prevalence of NAFL, NAFL with elevated alanine aminotransferase, and cryptogenic cirrhosis was 8.7%, 2.3%, and 0.2%, respectively. Seventy-five percent of NAFL subjects had a body mass index (BMI) <25 kg/m(2), and 54% were neither overweight nor had abdominal obesity. The subjects with the highest risk of having NAFL were those with a BMI >25 kg/m(2) (odds ratio 4.3, 95% confidence interval 1.6-11.5). Abdominal obesity, dysglycemia (fasting plasma glucose >100 mg/dL or elevated homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance), and higher income were the other risk factors. Even having a normal BMI (18.5-24.9 kg/m(2)) was associated with a 2-fold increased risk of NAFL versus those with a BMI <18.5 kg/m(2). There is a significant prevalence of NAFL and potentially significant liver disease, including cryptogenic cirrhosis, in this predominantly nonobese, nonaffluent population in a developing country. NAFL will be a major determinant of future liver disease burden in countries of the developing world."}
{"id": "20207872", "title": "Comparison of elastography, serum marker scores, and histology for the assessment of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients in Burkina Faso.", "content": "Comparison of elastography, serum marker scores, and histology for the assessment of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients in Burkina Faso. Liver fibrosis (LF) must be assessed before talking treatment decisions in hepatitis B. In Burkina Faso, liver biopsy (LB) remains the \"gold standard\" method for this purpose. Access to treatment might be simpler if reliable alternative techniques for LF evaluation were available. The hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients who underwent LB was invited to have liver stiffness measurement (Fibroscan) and serum marker assays. Fifty-nine patients were enrolled. The performance of each technique for distinguishing F0F1 from F2F3F4 was compared. The area under receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curves was 0.61, 0.71, 0.79, 0.82, and 0.87 for the aspartate transaminase to platelet ratio index (APRI), Fib-4, Fibrotest, Fibrometre, and Fibroscan. Elastometric thresholds were identified for significant fibrosis and cirrhosis. Combined use of Fibroscan and a serum marker could avoid 80% of biopsies. This study shows that the results of alternative methods concord with those of histology in HBV-infected patients in Burkina Faso. These alternative techniques could help physicians to identify patients requiring treatment."}
{"id": "20206870", "title": "HCV carriers with normal alanine aminotransferase levels: healthy persons or severely ill patients? Dealing with an everyday clinical problem.", "content": "HCV carriers with normal alanine aminotransferase levels: healthy persons or severely ill patients? Dealing with an everyday clinical problem. Approximately 30% of patients with chronic HCV infection show persistently normal ALT levels. Although formerly referred to as 'healthy' or 'asymptomatic' HCV carriers, and thus historically excluded from antiviral treatment, it has now become clear that the majority of these patients have some degree of histological liver damage that may be significant in up to 20% of patients and might progress toward a more severe degree of liver fibrosis. A significant proportion of patients (> or =20%) experience periods of increased serum ALT (flare) associated with enhanced disease progression. However, controversies still exist in clinical practice regarding the definition of 'persistent' ALT normality, the virological and histological features of these subjects, the need for liver biopsy, the role of non invasive tools for the assessment of liver fibrosis (transient hepatic elastography, fibroscan), and the natural history and optimal management of chronic hepatitis C with normal ALT. The advent of new therapeutic options (pegylated interferons plus ribavirin) has shifted treatment targets toward eradication of underlying infection, with therapy decision based on age, severity of disease and likelihood of response rather than on aminotransferase levels. This review does approach the main unresolved issues on this topic in the form of a dialog between a hepatologist and a patient with HCV infection but normal alanine aminotransferase levels, trying to give evidence-based answers to the more frequently asked questions from patients and their physicians."}
{"id": "20196962", "title": "[Noninvasive diagnosis of fatty liver disease].", "content": "[Noninvasive diagnosis of fatty liver disease]."}
{"id": "20172290", "title": "Esophageal varices in chronic intestinal insufficiency in absence of portal hypertension or liver cirrhosis: case report.", "content": "Esophageal varices in chronic intestinal insufficiency in absence of portal hypertension or liver cirrhosis: case report. We report the case of a 62-year-old man with short-bowel syndrome, referred for intestinal transplantation, who had esophageal varices (EV) due to superior vena cava (SVC) thrombosis. Pretransplantation work-up revealed protein S deficiency. Results of liver function tests were normal. Upper endoscopy showed grade II to III EV in the upper and middle segments of the esophagus. Computed tomography demonstrated thrombosis of the jugular, subclavian, and SVC veins and marked collateral vessels in the chest. Transient elastography yielded normal findings. A liver biopsy specimen showed a normal aspect of the liver, without fibrosis or liver cirrhosis. Presence of EV in a patient with chronic intestinal insufficiency may be related to collateral venous circulation associated with SVC thrombosis in the absence of portal hypertension. In this situation, an isolated intestinal graft is indicated."}
{"id": "20171943", "title": "Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. A decalogue from the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver (AISF) Expert Committee.", "content": "Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. A decalogue from the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver (AISF) Expert Committee. We report the evidence-based Italian Association for the Study of Liver guidelines for the appropriate diagnosis and management of patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in clinical practice and its related research agenda. The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease varies according to age, gender and ethnicity. In the general population, the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is about 25% and the incidence is of two new cases/100 people/year. 2-3% of individuals in the general population will suffer from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Uncomplicated steatosis will usually follow a benign course. Individuals with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, however, have a reduced life expectancy, mainly owing to vascular diseases and liver-related causes. Moreover, steatosis has deleterious effects on the natural history of HCV infection. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is usually diagnosed in asymptomatic patients prompted by the occasional discovery of increased liver enzymes and/or of ultrasonographic steatosis. Medical history, complete physical examination, etiologic screening of liver injury, liver biochemistry tests, serum lipids and insulin sensitivity tests should be performed in every patient. Occult alcohol abuse should be ruled out. Ultrasonography is the first-line imaging technique. Liver biopsy, the gold standard in diagnosis and prognosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, is an invasive procedure and its results will not influence treatment in most cases but will provide prognostic information. Assessment of fibrosis by composite scores, specific laboratory parameters and transient elastography might reduce the number of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients requiring liver biopsy. Dieting and physical training reinforced by behavioural therapy are associated with improved nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Diabetes and the metabolic syndrome should be ruled out at timed intervals in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients should undergo periodic evaluation of cardiovascular risk and of advancement of their liver disease; those with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis-cirrhosis should be evaluated for early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma."}
{"id": "20167986", "title": "Liver transient elastography (Fibroscan): a place in the management algorithms of chronic viral hepatitis.", "content": "Liver transient elastography (Fibroscan): a place in the management algorithms of chronic viral hepatitis. Treatment guidelines are continuously evolving in chronic viral hepatitis, taking into consideration our greater understanding of natural history and therapeutic efficacy and safety. Key in the decision making process is an assessment of liver injury. Traditionally, liver biopsy has provided this information; however, this is an invasive procedure and not completely reliable. Liver transient elastography (Fibroscan) is exciting new technology that allows estimation of hepatic fibrosis through measurement of liver stiffness. It is acceptably accurate, safe, cheap, quick and widely applicable, and can reduce the need for liver biopsy in chronic hepatitis. In chronic hepatitis C, it can identify those most likely to benefit from treatment, as well as those with cirrhosis who require more specific care. In chronic hepatitis B, it could screen groups previously excluded from treatment (normal alanine aminotransferase and low DNA) to identify the subgroup that would benefit from therapy. It cannot replace biopsy in all settings, but it will narrow the group who do require biopsy, and provide information on liver damage in patients for whom biopsy would probably not have been considered."}
{"id": "20135110", "title": "Transient elastography in patients with cystic fibrosis.", "content": "Transient elastography in patients with cystic fibrosis. Hepatic involvement is frequent in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), with focal biliary cirrhosis being the pathognomonic hepatic manifestation. In around one-quarter of CF patients, it results in CF-associated liver disease (CFLD). This occurs as a relatively early complication with the majority of patients presenting in childhood or their early teens. However, a normal US does not preclude significant liver fibrosis and liver biopsy is an invasive procedure that is hampered by potential sampling errors. Transient elastography (TE) (Fibroscan) is a non-invasive, user-friendly and quick technique that provides an objective and reproducible measure of liver stiffness. This is accomplished with a device using an US probe mounted in the axis of a vibrator. Vibrations are transmitted by the transducer, inducing an electronic shear wave that propagates through the underlying tissue. We aimed to prospectively compare TE and transabdominal US scanning in children and adults attending a CF clinic. A total of 134 consecutive patients with documented CF were prospectively studied. In each case, transient elastography measurement was performed immediately after the routine annual US evaluation of the liver. Sonographic appearance of the liver was classified from 1 to 5. Ten validated TE measurements were performed in each patient with the result expressed in kilopascals (kPa). The median value was considered representative of the elastic modulus of the liver. Measurements were performed in 59 CF adults, 75 CF children and 31 control children. There was no relationship between age and liver stiffness in either the control group or CF patients. Elasticity values of controls, CF pancreatic sufficient (PS) patients and pancreatic insufficient (PI) CF patients with a US score <3 were comparable and significantly lower than in CF patients with a US score > or = 3 (all PI) (P < 0.002). Median elasticity in CF patients was significantly higher in males (4.7 kPa) than in females (3.9 kPa) (P = 0.0013). Considering the limitations of US and the low risk-benefit rate of liver biopsy in most CF patients, this preliminary study suggests that TE is an attractive non-invasive way to assess and follow-up liver disease in these patients."}
{"id": "20104185", "title": "Can transient elastography replace liver histology for determination of advanced fibrosis in alcoholic patients: a real-life study.", "content": "Can transient elastography replace liver histology for determination of advanced fibrosis in alcoholic patients: a real-life study. Consensus is lacking whether cut-off values for different fibrosis stages using transient elastography (TE, FibroScan) are universally applicable to all liver diseases. We evaluated the performance of TE in predicting severe fibrosis (> or =F3) in alcoholic patients using cut-off values validated for chronic hepatitis C. Patients admitted for alcohol withdrawal were prospectively evaluated by TE and biochemistry for aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI) and Forns score calculations. If TE revealed severe fibrosis (> or =F3), hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements and transjugular liver biopsy were proposed results of which were correlated and compared with TE measurements or APRI and Forns scores. Among 239 patients, 72 had liver TE scores > or =F3 and 23 declined liver biopsy leaving a final study population of 49 patients. Compared with biopsy, 32 patients were correctly classified by TE, whereas 16 patients differed by 2 fibrosis stages yielding a positive predictive value of 65% for liver fibrosis > or =F3 at TE. Specificity and sensitivity of TE improved beyond 75% and 70%, respectively, with modified cut-offs of 17 (F3) and 21.1 kPa (F4). Areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves were 0.766 and 0.864 for severe fibrosis (> or =F3) and cirrhosis, respectively. APRI and Forns scores performed less well than TE regarding sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and area under the receiver operating characteristic values. A significant correlation was found between hepatic venous pressure gradients and liver stiffness values at TE. TE with modified cut-offs has the potential to predict advanced fibrosis and significant portal hypertension in alcoholic patients. APRI and Forns scores are of limited usefulness in alcoholics."}
{"id": "20101745", "title": "Diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis using liver stiffness measurement in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis using liver stiffness measurement in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common liver diseases in affluent countries. Accurate noninvasive tests for liver injury are urgently needed. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of transient elastography for the diagnosis of fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with NAFLD and to study factors associated with discordance between transient elastography and histology. Two hundred forty-six consecutive patients from two ethnic groups had successful liver stiffness measurement and satisfactory liver biopsy specimens. The area under the receiver-operating characteristics curve (AUROC) of transient elastography for F3 or higher and F4 disease was 0.93 and 0.95, respectively, and was significantly higher than that of the aspartate aminotransferase-to-alanine aminotransferase ratio, aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index, FIB-4, BARD, and NAFLD fibrosis scores (AUROC ranged from 0.62 to 0.81, P < 0.05 for all comparisons). At a cutoff value of 7.9 kPa, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for F3 or greater disease were 91%, 75%, 52%, and 97%, respectively. Liver stiffness was not affected by hepatic steatosis, necroinflammation, or body mass index. Discordance of at least two stages between transient elastography and histology was observed in 33 (13.4%) patients. By multivariate analysis, liver biopsy length less than 20 mm and F0-2 disease were associated with discordance. Transient elastography is accurate in most NAFLD patients. Unsatisfactory liver biopsy specimens rather than transient elastography technique account for most cases of discordance. With high negative predictive value and modest positive predictive value, transient elastography is useful as a screening test to exclude advanced fibrosis. Liver biopsy may be considered in NAFLD patients with liver stiffness of at least 7.9 kPa."}
{"id": "20068346", "title": "Non-invasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis for type C chronic hepatitis.", "content": "Non-invasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis for type C chronic hepatitis. The aim of this study was to investigate liver fibrosis using non-invasive Real-time Tissue Elastography (RTE) and transient elastography (FibroScan) methods. RTE, FibroScan and percutaneous liver biopsy were all performed on patients with chronic liver disease, particularly hepatitis C, to investigate liver fibrosis. FibroScan and RTE were compared for fibrous liver staging (F stage), which was pathologically classified using liver biopsy. In FibroScan, significant differences were observed between F1/F3 and F2/F4, but no such differences were observed between F1/F2, F2/F3 and F3/F4. In RTE, significant differences were observed between F1/F2, F2/F3 and F2/F4. But for F3/F4, no significant differences were observed. FibroScan and RTE correlated well with F staging of the liver. In particular RTE was more successful than FibroScan in diagnosing the degree of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "20006397", "title": "Prospective comparison of two algorithms combining non-invasive methods for staging liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Prospective comparison of two algorithms combining non-invasive methods for staging liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis is a challenging area. Several methods have been proposed in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) but their performance may be improved when they are combined as suggested by recently proposed algorithms using either transient elastography (TE) and Fibrotest (FT) (Castera) or AST-to-Platelet Ratio Index (APRI) and FT (SAFE biopsy). The aim of this prospective study was to compare the performance of these two algorithms for diagnosing significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in 302 CHC patients. All patients underwent TE, FT and APRI the same day as liver biopsy, taken as reference standard. Significant fibrosis (Metavir F>or=2) was present in 76% of patients and cirrhosis (F4) in 25%. TE failure was observed in eight cases (2.6%). For significant fibrosis, Castera algorithm saved 23% more liver biopsies (71.9% vs. 48.3%, respectively; p<0.0001) than SAFE biopsy but its accuracy was significantly lower (87.7% vs. 97.0%, respectively; p<0.0001). Regarding cirrhosis, accuracy of Castera algorithm was significantly higher than that of SAFE biopsy (95.7% vs. 88.7%, respectively; p<0.0001). The number of saved liver biopsies did not differ between the two algorithms (78.8% vs. 74.8%; p=NS). Both algorithms are effective for non-invasive staging of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Although the number of liver biopsies avoided does not differ between algorithms for diagnosing cirrhosis, it is significantly higher with Castera algorithm than SAFE biopsy for significant fibrosis."}
{"id": "20002560", "title": "Prevalence and factors associated with significant liver fibrosis assessed by transient elastometry in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients.", "content": "Prevalence and factors associated with significant liver fibrosis assessed by transient elastometry in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients. Transient elastometry (TE) could provide a more accurate evaluation of the frequency and risk factors of liver fibrosis in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection than that based on biopsy. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of and factors associated with significant liver fibrosis in a large population of HIV/HCV-coinfected patients. HIV/HCV-coinfected patients, who had participated in a cross-sectional, multicenter, retrospective study of liver fibrosis using noninvasive markers and in whom a determination of liver stiffness (LS) by TE was available, were included in this analysis. Factors potentially associated with significant fibrosis (LS \u2265 9 kPa) were analyzed. One thousand three hundred and ten patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria, 526 (40%) of them showed LS \u2265 9 kPa and 316 (24%) cirrhosis (LS \u2265 14 kPa). The factors independently associated with significant fibrosis [adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval, P value) were the following: older age [1.04 (1.01-1.07), 0.002], daily alcohol intake > 50 g/day [1.58 (1.10-2.27), 0.013] and the length of HCV infection [1.03 (1.00-1.06), 0.023]]. A CD4 cell count lower than < 200 per mm(3) [1.67 (0.99-2.81), 0.053] and HCV genotype 4 [0.66 (0.42-1.02), 0.066] were marginally associated with LS \u2265 9 kPa. In conclusion, the prevalence of cirrhosis in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients seems to be higher than previously reported in studies based on liver biopsy. Older age, alcohol consumption and lower CD4 cell counts are related with significant fibrosis. The latter association supports an earlier starting of antiretroviral therapy in this setting."}
{"id": "19940782", "title": "Usefulness of noninvasive tests in nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver.", "content": "Usefulness of noninvasive tests in nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. The only way to diagnose nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) is liver biopsy. To evaluate in a prospective study the performance of noninvasive liver investigations in patients with NRH. All consecutive patients with NRH who were being followed up in our unit from 2004 to 2007 were included. All biopsy specimens were reanalysed independently to confirm the diagnosis of NRH (classified as certain or probable) and to assess portal or sinusoidal associated fibrosis. All patients had liver stiffness (using FibroScan) and FibroTest measurements. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed using two contrast agents (gadolinium-chelate and ferucarbotran). Thirty patients were included (mean age: 53 years). Median liver stiffness value was 7.9 kPa (range: 3.5-16.8), with 63% of the patients having more than 7.1 kPa. No relationship was found between NRH with or without portal hypertension and liver stiffness or Fibrotest. No correlation was found between liver stiffness and portal and/or sinusoidal fibrosis. In patients studied with MRI, 55% had portal hypertension and 9% a diffuse fine-nodular loss of iron uptake after ferucarbotran injection. Liver stiffness and FibroTest values may be increased in NRH patients, with no correlation with portal hypertension or portal and sinusoidal fibrosis. Contrast-enhanced MRI is disappointing in NRH."}
{"id": "19925459", "title": "Chances and limitations of non-invasive tests in the assessment of liver fibrosis in liver transplant patients.", "content": "Chances and limitations of non-invasive tests in the assessment of liver fibrosis in liver transplant patients. Because fibrosis progression resulting in liver cirrhosis represents the main reason for graft lost in patients after liver transplantation, an early detection of liver fibrosis is crucial. In recent years, several non-invasive tests for the assessment of liver fibrosis have been developed. We prospectively assessed the stage of liver fibrosis of 135 liver transplant patients (94 hepatitis C virus [HCV], 41 alcoholic cirrhosis) using liver biopsy, transient elastography, and serum markers. In the HCV group, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) for diagnosis of significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2) and cirrhosis (F = 4) was 0.81 (negative predictive value [NPV] = 0.58, positive predictive value [PPV] = 0.9) and 0.87 (NPV = 0.94, PPV = 0.56), respectively. In the alcoholic cirrhosis group, significant fibrosis (F \u2265 2) was diagnosed with an AUROC of 0.83 (NPV = 1.00, PPV = 0.23). In both groups, higher AUROC values were reached in patients with a body mass index of <25 kg/m(2) , and both serum markers showed no significant correlation to liver fibrosis. The transient elastography is a reliable test for exclusion of liver cirrhosis in HCV transplant and significant liver fibrosis in alcoholic transplant patients. For the diagnosis of significant liver fibrosis in HCV transplant patients, the transient elastography reaches good results but cannot replace liver biopsy. Both serum markers AST-to-platelet ratio index and FIB-4 are not feasible to assess liver fibrosis in liver transplant patients."}
{"id": "19921111", "title": "[Liver fibrosis : clinics, diagnostics and management].", "content": "[Liver fibrosis : clinics, diagnostics and management]. Liver fibrosis results from chronic liver damage and is characterized by scarring of the liver parenchyma. Liver fibrosis can occur in all chronic liver diseases and shows progression towards liver cirrhosis in 20-40% of cases. The clinical presentation of liver fibrosis is usually unspecific. Therefore, most patients with liver fibrosis are identified by elevated liver enzymes during other medical examinations. The gold standard for quantification of liver fibrosis is percutaneous liver biopsy, but non-invasive markers (e. g. serum markers, transient elastography) have recently been evaluated to identify individuals with significant fibrosis. In case of fibrosis detection, medical therapies aim at stabilizing liver scarring or even at inducing the regression of fibrosis. Primarily this is achieved by etiology specific therapies of chronic liver diseases (e. g. antiviral therapy, immunosuppressive therapy etc.). However, in cases of failure of these specific therapies, non-specific interventions for fibrosis regression are actively being investigated. These treatment options are based on the growing molecular knowledge of fibrogenesis but are not yet available for routine clinical use."}
{"id": "19920809", "title": "Correlation of liver stiffness and histological features in healthy persons and in patients with occult hepatitis B, chronic active hepatitis B, or hepatitis B cirrhosis.", "content": "Correlation of liver stiffness and histological features in healthy persons and in patients with occult hepatitis B, chronic active hepatitis B, or hepatitis B cirrhosis. Liver stiffness measurement using transient elastography has become a popular tool to assess liver fibrosis. The aim of this study was to determine liver stiffness values and histological features in healthy subjects and in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). A total of 157 people were included (28 healthy subjects and 18 patients with occult hepatitis B infection, 102 with active CHB, and 9 with end-stage hepatitis B cirrhosis). Histology and liver stiffness measurements were obtained from all patients. The median liver stiffness in healthy subjects and in occult hepatitis B, active hepatitis B, and end-stage cirrhosis patients was 4.6, 4.2, 8.7, and 33.8 kPa, respectively. In healthy subjects and in patients with occult hepatitis B infection, none had significant fibrosis on histology, and all had liver stiffness <7.2 kPa. In patients with active CHB, 32 (31%) had liver stiffness >11.0 kPa, but only four (12%) had cirrhosis on histology. Using liver stiffness to predict cirrhosis in this group had a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 69%, a positive predictive value of 10%, and a negative predictive value of 100%. All nine patients with end-stage liver cirrhosis had liver stiffness >11.0 kPa. The overall area under the ROC curve (AUROC) for diagnosing cirrhosis using a cutoff of 11.3 kPa was 0.89. Liver stiffness measurement has an overall good diagnostic accuracy with excellent negative predictive value. However, in active CHB with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, the positive predictive value for diagnosing cirrhosis is poor, and further studies are needed to optimize the use of transient elastography in this important group."}
{"id": "19887952", "title": "Noninvasive markers of fibrosis and inflammation in clinical practice: prospective comparison with liver biopsy.", "content": "Noninvasive markers of fibrosis and inflammation in clinical practice: prospective comparison with liver biopsy. The efficiency of transient elastography for the assessment of liver fibrosis has been evaluated mainly in patients with chronic hepatitis C and chronic hepatitis B, with few studies with nonviral chronic liver disease (CLD) such as autoimmune hepatitis, alcoholic liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. In this study, we examined the value of transient elastography in a number of groups in comparison with the Fibrotest/Actitest (FT/AT), using the liver biopsy (LB) as the reference standard. An unselected and consecutive group of 65 patients had an LB either as part of an initial diagnosis or of a follow-up assessment, and in addition had a transient elastography measurement [Fibroscan (FS)] and serum blood tests FT/AT performed before the LB. The group consisted of patients diagnosed with a variety of CLD: chronic hepatitis C (n=27), chronic hepatitis B (n=8), alcoholic liver disease (n=14), autoimmune hepatitis (n=13) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (n=4). FS optimal cutoff values were 9.70 kPa for F at least 2, 13.00 kPa for F at least 3, and 16.00 kPa for F=4. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve of FS and FT for F at least 2 were 0.88 versus 0.78 in the viral CLD group and 0.81 versus 0.70 in the nonviral CLD group and 0.87 versus 0.80 in all patients. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for A at least 2 in all patients was 0.83. The optimal cutoff for A at least 2 was 0.50. FT/AT is a reliable method for predicting significant liver fibrosis and necroinflammation in both viral and nonviral CLD patients with a value measurement comparable with that of the FS."}
{"id": "19874490", "title": "Evaluation of acoustic radiation force impulse elastography for fibrosis staging of chronic liver disease: a pilot study.", "content": "Evaluation of acoustic radiation force impulse elastography for fibrosis staging of chronic liver disease: a pilot study. Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) is a new technology integrated into conventional B-mode ultrasonography. ARFI is used to evaluate tissue stiffness in several organs, but this method has not been applied for liver fibrosis. The aim of this study was to determine whether ARFI elastography is useful for the evaluation of liver fibrosis. This study enrolled 55 consecutive patients with chronic liver disease who underwent a liver biopsy for histological assessment of liver fibrosis by the Metavir scoring system. Liver stiffness of the 55 patients and 25 healthy volunteers was evaluated by ARFI elastography and was expressed as the shear wave velocity. Cut-off values were determined using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Histological liver fibrosis was evaluated by Metavir scoring; F0: six cases, F1: 14 cases, F2: nine cases, F3: nine cases and F4: 17 cases. Liver stiffness determined by ARFI elastography was correlated with histological liver fibrosis (P<0.0001). The areas under the ROC curves were 0.94 (95% confidence intervals, 0.87-0.99) for F2-F4, 0.94 (0.88-0.99) for F3-F4 and 0.96 (0.91-1.01) for F4. The cut-off values of the shear wave velocity were as follows: >1.34 m/s for F2-F4 (sensitivity 91.4%, specificity 80%); >1.44 m/s for F3-F4 (sensitivity 96.2%, specificity 79.3%); and >1.80 m/s for F4 (sensitivity 94.1%, specificity 86.8%). Ultrasonic ARFI elastography is a novel, non-invasive and reliable method for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease."}
{"id": "19874477", "title": "Prospective comparison of Fibroscan, King's score and liver biopsy for the assessment of cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis C infection.", "content": "Prospective comparison of Fibroscan, King's score and liver biopsy for the assessment of cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis C infection. Historically, liver biopsy (LB) was the sole method to evaluate the severity of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C infection. However, LB is expensive and associated with a risk of severe complications. Therefore, noninvasive tests have been developed to assess the severity of liver fibrosis. The accuracy of Fibroscan (FS) and King's score (KS) was evaluated individually and in combination using liver histology as the reference standard. One hundred and eighty-seven patients were identified who had undergone a biopsy with a diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) mono-infection (HCV RNA-positive by RT-PCR), attending King's College Hospital (n = 88) or the Royal Free Hospital (n = 99) (London) between May 2006 and December 2007. Liver fibrosis was scored using the Ishak method; significant fibrosis was defined as Ishak fibrosis stage F3-F6, and cirrhosis defined as Ishak fibrosis F5-F6. The diagnostic accuracy of each test was assessed by area under receiver operator characteristic curves (AUROC). Median age was 49 years (43-54) and 115 (61%) were male. The AUROC for FS, KS and FS + KS for the diagnosis of Ishak F3-F6 were 0.83, 0.82 and 0.85, respectively and for the diagnosis of cirrhosis (>or=F5) were 0.96, 0.89 and 0.93, respectively. The negative predictive values for the diagnosis of cirrhosis using the optimal cut-off results for fibrsocan (10.05 kPa), KS (24.3) and the two combined (26.1) were 98%, 91% and 94%, respectively. The noninvasive markers and, particularly, FS were effective tests for the prediction of cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis C. Both KS and FS also had clinical utility for the prediction of Ishak fibrosis stages F3-F6."}
{"id": "19839063", "title": "Liver stiffness identifies two different patterns of fibrosis progression in patients with hepatitis C virus recurrence after liver transplantation.", "content": "Liver stiffness identifies two different patterns of fibrosis progression in patients with hepatitis C virus recurrence after liver transplantation. Significant liver fibrosis (F >or= 2) and portal hypertension (hepatic venous pressure gradient [HVPG] >or= 6 mmHg) at 1 year after liver transplantation (LT) identify patients with severe hepatitis C recurrence. We evaluated whether repeated liver stiffness measurements (LSM) following LT can discriminate between slow and rapid \"fibrosers\" (fibrosis stage F2-F4 at 1 year after LT). Eighty-four patients who had undergone LT and who were infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and 19 LT controls who were not infected with HCV underwent LSM at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after LT. All HCV-infected patients underwent liver biopsy 12 months after LT (paired HVPG measurements in 74); 31 (37%) were rapid fibrosers. Median LSM (in kilopascal) at months 6, 9, and 12 were significantly higher in rapid fibrosers (9.9, 9.5, 12.1) than in slow fibrosers (6.9, 7.5, 6.6) (P < 0.01 all time points). The slope of liver stiffness progression (kPa x month) in rapid fibrosers (0.42) was significantly greater than in slow fibrosers (0.05) (P < 0.001), suggesting two different speeds of liver fibrosis progression. Figures were almost identical for patients with HVPG >or= 6 mmHg or HVPG < 6 mmHg at 1 year after LT. Multivariate analysis identified donor age, bilirubin level, and LSM as independent predictors of fibrosis progression and portal hypertension in the estimation group (n = 50) and were validated in a second group of 34 patients. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve that could identify rapid fibrosers and patients with portal hypertension as early as 6 months after LT were 0.83 and 0.87, respectively, in the estimation group and 0.75 and 0.80, respectively, in the validation group. Early and repeated LSM following hepatitis C recurrence in combination with clinical variables discriminates between rapid and slow fibrosers after LT."}
{"id": "19804501", "title": "Optimal combinations of ultrasound-based and serum markers of disease severity in patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Optimal combinations of ultrasound-based and serum markers of disease severity in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Combinations of noninvasive markers may improve discrimination of chronic liver disease severity. The aims of this study were to compare four validated serum and ultrasound-based markers of hepatic disease severity head-to-head with liver biopsy and to assess optimal combinations with consideration of cost. A total of 67 patients with biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis C underwent all four techniques on the same visit [aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio index (APRI); Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) panel; transient elastography (TE) and ultrasound microbubble hepatic transit times (HTT)]. Markers were combined according to increasing financial cost and ordinal regression used to determine contributions. APRI, ELF, TE and HTT predicted cirrhosis with diagnostic accuracy of 86%, 91%, 90% and 83% respectively. ELF and TE were the most reliable tests with an intra-class correlation of 0.94 each. Either ELF or TE significantly enhanced the prediction of fibrosis stage when combined with APRI, but when combined together, did not improve the model further. Addition of third or fourth markers did not significantly improve prediction of fibrosis. Combination of APRI with either ELF or TE effectively predicts fibrosis stage, but combinations of three or more tests lead to redundancy of information and increased cost."}
{"id": "19780940", "title": "Fibrosis staging in chronic hepatitis C: analysis of discordance between transient elastography and liver biopsy.", "content": "Fibrosis staging in chronic hepatitis C: analysis of discordance between transient elastography and liver biopsy. In chronic hepatitis C, transient elastography (TE) accurately identifies cirrhosis, but its ability to assess significant fibrosis (Metavir > or = F2) is variable. Constitutional and liver disease-related factors may influence TE and here we examined the variables associated with differences. Three hundred consecutive hepatitis C virus (HCV)-RNA positive patients had biochemical tests, TE and a biopsy performed on the same day. The Dale model was used to identify the variables associated with discordance between biopsy and elastography results. In 97 patients (34.2%), TE and histological assessment were discordant. Seventy-six of 286 (26.6%) had stage > or =F2 and TE < 7.1 kPa (false negative); 21 of 286 (7.3%) had stage <F2 and TE > or = 7.1 kPa (false positive). No patient with discordant results had cirrhosis. By Dale model, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) was found to be the unique variable significantly related (P = 0.046) with discordance between biopsy and TE. Discordance rate was 43.4% (82 patients) with AST < 1.5 x UNL vs 25.8% (25 patients) with AST > or = 1.5 x UNL (P = 0.004). False negative rate was 43.4 (82 patients) with AST < 1.5 x UNL vs 17.1% (13 patients) with AST > or = 1.5 x UNL (P < 0.001). Areas under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) for F > or = 2, according to AST < 1.5 x UNL vs > or = 1.5 x UNL were 0.738 (95% CI: 0.683-0.812) and 0.854(95% CI: 0.754-0.907). Transient elastography is not adequate on its own to rule out or to rule in significant fibrosis, as it is influenced by major variations in biochemical activity of liver disease. Liver stiffness, at low levels of AST, can underestimate fibrosis."}
{"id": "19745758", "title": "A meta-analysis of transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis.", "content": "A meta-analysis of transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis. The use of transient elastography to assess liver stiffness measurement (LSM) has now become widely available for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis as a rapid, noninvasive test (it is still not approved for use in the United States). It has previously been showed as an accurate method of representing the state of liver fibrosis with concomitant evaluation of liver biopsy and the histologic scoring system METAVIR. We performed a meta-analysis to further assess its use in comparison with liver biopsy. Studies from the literature were analyzed with a median liver stiffness value in kilopascal given for fibrosis stages according to histopathologic findings on biopsy and best discriminant cutoff levels in kilopascals for significant fibrosis (>or=F2) and cirrhosis (F4). A total of 22 studies were selected comprising 4,430 patients; chronic hepatitis C infection was the most common etiology of fibrosis. The pooled estimates for significant fibrosis (>or=F2) measured 7.71 kPa (LSM cutoff value) with a sensitivity of 71.9% [95% confidence interval (CI): 71.4%-72.4%] and specificity of 82.4% (95% CI: 81.9-82.9%), whereas for cirrhosis (F4) the results showed a cutoff of 15.08 kPa with a sensitivity of 84.45% (95% CI: 84.2-84.7%) and specificity of 94.69% (95% CI: 94.3%-95%). Further evaluation of transient elastography to assess LSM is required in prospective studies to potentially increase the sensitivity and establish its clinical utility."}
{"id": "19732322", "title": "Comparison of transient elastography and liver biopsy for the assessment of liver fibrosis in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients and correlation with noninvasive serum markers.", "content": "Comparison of transient elastography and liver biopsy for the assessment of liver fibrosis in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients and correlation with noninvasive serum markers. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a novel, rapid and noninvasive technique to assess liver fibrosis. Our objective was to compare transient elastography (TE) and other noninvasive serum indexes as alternatives to liver biopsy in HIV/hepatitis C virus (HCV)-coinfected patients. The fibrosis stage (METAVIR Score), TE, the aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index, the Forns fibrosis index, FIB-4 and HGM-2 indexes were assessed in 100 patients between January 2007 and January 2008. The diagnostic values were compared by calculating the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs). Using TE, the AUROC (95% CI) of liver stiffness was 0.80 (0.72-0.89) when discriminating between F <or= 1 and F > 2, 0.93 (0.85-1.00) when discriminating between F <or= 2 and F > 3 and 0.99 (0.97-1.00) when discriminating between F <or= 3 and F4. For the diagnosis of F >or= 3, the AUROCs of TE were significantly higher than those obtained with the other four noninvasive indexes. Based on receiver operating characteristic curves, three cutoff values were chosen to identify F <or= 1 (<7 kPa), F >or= 3 (>or=11 kPa) and F4 (>or=14 kPa). Using these best cutoff scores, the negative predictive value and positive predictive value were 81.1% and 70.2% for the diagnosis of F <or= 1, 96.3% and 60% for the diagnosis of F >or= 3 and 100% and 57.1% for the diagnosis of F4. Thus, Transient elastography accurately predicted liver fibrosis and outperformed other simple noninvasive indexes in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients. Our data suggest that TE is a helpful tool for guiding therapeutic decisions in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19609218", "title": "How can we enhance the performance of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in diagnosing liver cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B?", "content": "How can we enhance the performance of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in diagnosing liver cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B? This study aimed to enhance the diagnostic accuracy by defining different cutoff liver stiffness measurement (LSM) values according to alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level and combining LSM with noninvasive models in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Several studies have indicated that ALT influences LSM using FibroScan. The study prospectively enrolled 200 patients (143 men, mean age 45.4 y) between June 2007 and November 2008 who had been diagnosed with CHB and underwent both liver biopsy and LSM on the same day. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROC) of LSM for predicting cirrhosis in patients with ALT < or = upper limit of normal (ULN) was higher than that of all patients or those with ALT >ULN and < or = 2x ULN (AUROC=0.884 vs. 0.849 and 0.867). The cutoff LSM values for > or = F2, > or = F3, and F4 were 6.0, 7.5, and 10.1 kPa, respectively, in patients with ALT < or = ULN, whereas they were 8.9, 11.0, and 15.5 kPa, respectively, in those with ALT >ULN and < or = 2x ULN. The combination of LSM and the age-spleen-platelet ratio index performed the best at predicting cirrhosis, regardless of ALT level (AUROC=0.917 in patients with ALT < or = ULN, 0.909 in those with ALT < or = 2x ULN, and 0.894 in all patients). Different cutoff LSM values according to ALT level and combination with age-spleen-platelet ratio index can enhance the performance of LSM in CHB, regardless of ALT level."}
{"id": "21179914", "title": "Liver biopsy versus noninvasive methods--fibroscan and fibrotest in the diagnosis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a review of the literature.", "content": "Liver biopsy versus noninvasive methods--fibroscan and fibrotest in the diagnosis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a review of the literature. The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasing in general population so it is impossible to perform liver biopsy in such a large number of patients to identify those with advanced fibrosis or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Liver biopsy has a potential sampling error, it is invasive and prone to complications, so it is no longer considered as mandatory as first line screening tools for chronic liver disease. The development of non-invasive biomarkers, FibroTest-ActiTest in 2001 and more recently FibroMax, as well as transient elastography (TE) has changed the management of chronic liver disease. The aim of this review is to summarize the advantages and limits of the available non-invasive biomarkers of liver fibrosis, in comparison with liver biopsy in NAFLD patients."}
{"id": "20198894", "title": "[Assessment of hepatic injury in patients with chronic viral hepatitis].", "content": "[Assessment of hepatic injury in patients with chronic viral hepatitis]. The management and prognosis of chronic viral hepatitis greatly depend on the extent and progression of liver fibrosis. Although liver biopsy is still considered as the gold standard to evaluate hepatic fibrosis, it is an invasive procedure with rare but potentially severe complications. It is also prone to sampling errors. These limitations have stimulated the search for new noninvasive approaches. A number of noninvasive techniques such as indirect or direct markers and measurement of liver stiffness using transient elastography have been proposed for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis. The performance of simple tests derived from routine laboratory parameters appears to be similar to that of more complex and expensive fibrosis panels. Transient elastography seems to be more accurate than blood tests for diagnosing cirrhosis. The goal of disease specific, accurate and sensitive markers of fibrosis is worth the effort. The true success in such an attempt can be characterized as hopeful; however, these noninvasive methods can be anticipated to become an important tool in clinical practice."}
{"id": "20180445", "title": "[Measurement of liver elasticity can differentiate high and low grade fibrosis. New method can reduce the need of liver biopsy in chronic hepatitis C].", "content": "[Measurement of liver elasticity can differentiate high and low grade fibrosis. New method can reduce the need of liver biopsy in chronic hepatitis C]."}
{"id": "20180444", "title": "[Elastography--a new tool for diagnosis of chronic liver diseases. Might replace liver biopsy, but not always].", "content": "[Elastography--a new tool for diagnosis of chronic liver diseases. Might replace liver biopsy, but not always]."}
{"id": "20037265", "title": "[Factors associated with liver stiffness in chronic liver disease].", "content": "[Factors associated with liver stiffness in chronic liver disease]. Transient elastography is a new noninvasive tool for measuring liver stiffness that accurately predicts significant fibrosis and cirrhosis. However, several studies have indicated that liver stiffness can be significantly influenced by major changes in aminotransferase in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. The aim of this study was to determine the factors influencing liver stiffness in patients with chronic liver disease. We studied 158 patients with chronic liver disease who underwent transient elastography and liver biopsy sampling. Histologic findings on fibrosis and necroinflammatory activity in the biopsy specimens were evaluated according to the Korean Society of Pathologists Scoring System. Routine biochemical tests were performed according to standard methods. Liver stiffness was strongly correlated with liver fibrosis stage (Spearman coefficient=0.636, P<0.001), lobular activity (Spearman coefficient=0.359, P<0.001), and portoperiportal activity grade (Spearman coefficient=0.448, P<0.001). Liver stiffness was significantly associated with serum levels of total bilirubin (P=0.025), direct bilirubin (P=0.049), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (P=0.014), platelet count (P=0.004), albumin (P<0.001), and international normalized ratio (P<0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that fibrosis stage (B 3.50, P=0.009) and lobular activity grade (B 3.25, P=0.047) were independently associated with liver stiffness. Liver stiffness as measured by transient elastography is associated with the grade of necroinflammatory activity and the stage of fibrosis, irrespective of serum ALT levels."}
{"id": "20010062", "title": "Abdominal magnetic resonance elastography.", "content": "Abdominal magnetic resonance elastography. Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) is a magnetic resonance imaging-based technique for quantitatively assessing the mechanical properties of tissues based on the propagation of shear waves. Multiple studies have described many potential applications of MRE, from characterizing tumors to detecting diffuse disease processes. Studies have shown that MRE can be successfully implemented to assess abdominal organs. The first clinical application of MRE to be well documented is the detection and characterization of hepatic fibrosis, which systematically increases the stiffness of liver tissue. In this diagnostic role, it offers a safer, less expensive, and potentially more accurate alternative to invasive liver biopsy. Emerging results suggest that measurements of liver and spleen stiffness may provide an indirect way to assess portal hypertension. Preliminary studies have demonstrated that it is possible to use MRE to evaluate the mechanical properties of other abdominal structures, such as the pancreas and kidneys. Steady technical progress in developing practical protocols for applying MRE in the abdomen and the pelvis provides opportunities to explore many other potential applications of this emerging technology."}
{"id": "20001156", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis. Serum markers and transient elastography (FibroScan).", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis. Serum markers and transient elastography (FibroScan). Both the prognosis and potential treatment of chronic liver disease greatly depend on the progression of liver fibrosis, which is the ultimate outcome of chronic liver damage. Historically, liver biopsy has been instrumental in adequately assessing patients with chronic liver disease. Histological assessment allows clinicians both to obtain diagnostic information and initiate adequate therapy. However, the technique is not exempt of deleterious effects. Multiple diagnostic tests have been developed for the staging of fibrosis using noninvasive methods, most of them in the setting of chronic hepatitis C. The goal of this paper is to review available data on the staging and assessment of liver fibrosis with two methods: serum markers and transient elastography (FibroScan)."}
{"id": "19965159", "title": "Liver elasticity and viscosity quantification using shearwave dispersion ultrasound vibrometry (SDUV).", "content": "Liver elasticity and viscosity quantification using shearwave dispersion ultrasound vibrometry (SDUV). Noninvasive quantification of liver elasticity is a promising alternative to liver biopsy to stage liver fibrosis, a condition afflicting hundreds of millions of patients worldwide. Quantitative measurement of elasticity (in unit of Pascal) is required in this application because liver fibrosis is a diffuse disease where abnormality is not confined to a local region and there is no normal background tissue to provide contrast. SDUV uses an ultrasound \"push\" beam to stimulate formation of propagating harmonic shear waves in the studied tissue. The propagation speed of induced shear waves is frequency dependent (dispersive) and relates to the tissue's mechanical properties. Shear wave speeds at multiple frequencies (typically hundreds of Hertz) are measured by a separate ultrasound \"detect\" beam in pulse echo mode and fit with a theoretical dispersion model to inversely solve for tissue elasticity and viscosity. A special pulse sequence has been developed to facilitate a single ultrasound array transducer for both push and detect function, which makes SDUV compatible with current ultrasound scanners. Feasibility of this pulse sequence is demonstrated by in vivo SDUV measurements in porcine liver using a dual transducer prototype."}
{"id": "19959511", "title": "MR imaging of liver fibrosis: current state of the art.", "content": "MR imaging of liver fibrosis: current state of the art. Chronic liver disease is a major public health problem worldwide. Liver fibrosis, a common feature of almost all causes of chronic liver disease, involves the accumulation of collagen, proteoglycans, and other macromolecules within the extracellular matrix. Fibrosis tends to progress, leading to hepatic dysfunction, portal hypertension, and ultimately cirrhosis. Liver biopsy, the standard of reference for diagnosing liver fibrosis, is invasive, costly, and subject to complications and sampling variability. These limitations make it unsuitable for diagnosis and longitudinal monitoring in the general population. Thus, development of a noninvasive, accurate, and reproducible test for diagnosis and monitoring of liver fibrosis would be of great value. Conventional cross-sectional imaging techniques have limited capability to demonstrate liver fibrosis. In clinical practice, imaging studies are usually reserved for evaluation of the presence of portal hypertension or hepatocellular carcinoma in cases that have progressed to cirrhosis. In response to the rising prevalence of chronic liver diseases in Western nations, a number of imaging-based methods including ultrasonography-based transient elastography, computed tomography-based texture analysis, and diverse magnetic resonance (MR) imaging-based techniques have been proposed for noninvasive diagnosis and grading of hepatic fibrosis across its entire spectrum of severity. State-of-the-art MR imaging-based techniques in current practice and in development for noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis include conventional contrast material-enhanced MR imaging, double contrast-enhanced MR imaging, MR elastography, diffusion-weighted imaging, and MR perfusion imaging."}
{"id": "19938190", "title": "Acoustic radiation force imaging sonoelastography for noninvasive staging of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Acoustic radiation force imaging sonoelastography for noninvasive staging of liver fibrosis. To investigate the diagnostic accuracy of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging as a noninvasive method for the assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients. We performed a prospective blind comparison of ARFI elastography, APRI index and FibroMax in a consecutive series of patients who underwent liver biopsy for CHC in University Hospital Bucharest. Histopathological staging of liver fibrosis according to the METAVIR scoring system served as the reference. A total of 74 patients underwent ARFI elastography, APRI index, FibroMax and successful liver biopsy. The noninvasive tests had a good correlation with the liver biopsy results. The most powerful test in predicting fibrosis was ARFI elastography. The diagnostic accuracy of ARFI elastography, expressed as area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) had a validity of 90.2% (95% CI AUROC = 0.831-0.972, P < 0.001) for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (F >or= 2). ARFI sonoelastography predicted even better F3 or F4 fibrosis (AUROC = 0.993, 95% CI = 0.979-1). ARFI elastography had very good accuracy for the assessment of liver fibrosis and was superior to other noninvasive methods (APRI Index, FibroMax) for staging liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "19856447", "title": "Cross-validation of magnetic resonance elastography and ultrasound-based transient elastography: a preliminary phantom study.", "content": "Cross-validation of magnetic resonance elastography and ultrasound-based transient elastography: a preliminary phantom study. To cross-validate two recent noninvasive elastographic techniques, ultrasound-based transient elastography (UTE) and magnetic resonance elastography (MRE). As potential alternatives to liver biopsy, UTE and MRE are undergoing clinical investigations for liver fibrosis diagnosis and liver disease management around the world. These two techniques use tissue stiffness as a marker for disease state and it is important to do a cross-validation study of both elastographic techniques to determine the consistency with which the two techniques can measure the mechanical properties of materials. In this study, 19 well-characterized phantoms with a range of stiffness values were measured by two clinical devices (a Fibroscan and an MRE system based respectively on the UTE and MRE techniques) successively with the operators double-blinded. Statistical analysis showed that the correlation coefficient was r(2) = 0.93 between MRE and UTE, and there was no evidence of a systematic difference between them within the range of stiffnesses examined. These two noninvasive methods, MRE and UTE, provide clinicians with important new options for improving patient care regarding liver diseases in terms of the diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring of fibrosis progression, as well for evaluating the efficacy of treatment."}
{"id": "19822238", "title": "Non-invasive evaluation of liver cirrhosis using ultrasound.", "content": "Non-invasive evaluation of liver cirrhosis using ultrasound. Ultrasound (US) is essential in both assessment of the potentially cirrhotic liver and surveillance of selected patients with chronic hepatitis as liver biopsy can be misleading or inaccurate in up to 25% of cases. Various techniques are already in routine use, such as grey-scale imaging, Doppler US, and contrast-enhanced US (CEUS), while newer techniques such as elastography and hepatic vein transit time (HVTT) have the potential to exclude patients without significant fibrosis or cirrhosis; however, they are operator dependent and require specific software. Grey-scale imaging may demonstrate changes, such as volume redistribution, capsule nodularity, parenchymal nodularity, and echotexture changes. The Doppler findings in the hepatic and portal veins, hepatic artery, and varices allow assessment of liver cirrhosis. However, the operator needs to be aware of limitations of these techniques. Low mechanical index CEUS plays an important role in the assessment of complications of cirrhosis, such as hepatocellular carcinoma and portal vein thrombus. Optimized US technique is crucial for accurate diagnosis of the cirrhotic liver and its complications."}
{"id": "19789246", "title": "Science to practice: can MR elastography be used to detect early steatohepatitis in fatty liver disease?", "content": "Science to practice: can MR elastography be used to detect early steatohepatitis in fatty liver disease? Fatty liver disease is common in Western countries. Some patients with this condition develop steatohepatitis, with ongoing liver injury that can lead to cirrhosis. Liver biopsy is currently required to differentiate between uncomplicated fatty liver disease and the more serious condition of steatohepatitis. Salameh and colleagues (1) studied the potential role of MR elastography for this diagnostic task in rat models of simple fatty liver and steatohepatitis. Their results suggest that MR elastography may have a potentially important role for noninvasive early detection of steatohepatitis in patients with fatty liver disease."}
{"id": "19725892", "title": "The combination of a blood test and Fibroscan improves the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis.", "content": "The combination of a blood test and Fibroscan improves the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis. Blood tests and liver stiffness evaluation (LSE) by ultrasonographic elastometry are accurate tools for diagnosing liver fibrosis. We evaluated whether their synchronous combination in new scores could improve the diagnostic accuracy and reduce liver biopsy requirement in algorithm. Three hundred and ninety patients with chronic liver disease of miscellaneous causes were included. Five blood fibrosis tests were evaluated: APRI, FIB-4, Hepascore, Fibrotest and FibroMeter. The reference was fibrosis Metavir staging. Diagnosis of significant fibrosis (Metavir F>or=2). The most accurate synchronous combination was FibroMeter+LSE, which provided a significantly higher area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (0.892) than LSE alone (0.867, P=0.011) or Fibrometer (0.834, P<10(-3)). An algorithm using the FibroMeter+LSE combination and then a liver biopsy in indeterminate cases had 91.9% diagnostic accuracy and required significantly fewer biopsies (20.2%) than previously published Bordeaux algorithm (28.6%, P=0.02) or sequential algorithm for fibrosis evaluation (SAFE) (55.7%, P<10(-3)). The Angers algorithm performance was not significantly different between viral hepatitis and other causes. Diagnosis of cirrhosis. The most accurate synchronous combination was LSE+FibroMeter, which provided >or=90% predictive values for cirrhosis in 90.6% of patients vs 87.4% for LSE (P=0.02) and 57.9% for FibroMeter (P<10(-3)). An algorithm including the LSE+FibroMeter combination, and then a liver biopsy in indeterminate cases, had a significantly higher diagnostic accuracy than the SAFE algorithm (91.0 vs 79.8%, P<10(-3)), and required significantly fewer biopsies than the Bordeaux algorithm (9.3 vs 25.3%, P<10(-3)). The synchronous combination of a blood test plus LSE improves the accuracy of the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis and, consequently, markedly decreases the biopsy requirement in the diagnostic algorithm, notably to <10% in cirrhosis diagnosis."}
{"id": "19718953", "title": "[Magnetic resonance imaging for quantifying hepatis steatosis and hepatic fibrosis].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance imaging for quantifying hepatis steatosis and hepatic fibrosis]. The reference method for detecting and quantifying hepatic steatosis and fibrosis is the histopathological analysis of liver biopsies. Studies performed in animals and humans have shown that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is useful for the accurate and non-invasive quantification of these lesions. For fibrosis quantification, functional MRI methods have to be used, including perfusion MRI, diffusion MRI, and more particularly MR elastography. Modifications of the visco-elastic parameters of the liver can also be observed with MR elastography in hepatic diseases without fibrosis, such as the early stages ofnon-alcoholi steatohepatitis. Finally, accurate quantification of liver steatosis can be performed by observing the difference of resonance frequencies between the protons of fat and water at spectroscopy or chemical shift MRI. In conclusion, combined quantification of liver steatosis and fibrosis can be performed with MRI."}
{"id": "19715940", "title": "Correlation between fibroscan, liver biopsy, and clinical liver function in patients with hepatitis C virus infection after renal transplantation.", "content": "Correlation between fibroscan, liver biopsy, and clinical liver function in patients with hepatitis C virus infection after renal transplantation. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is the most important liver disease (LD) after renal transplantation. Liver biopsy is the gold standard for the diagnosis and follow-up of LD. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the correlation between values of Fibroscan (EchoSens, Paris, France), a new noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis, liver biopsy, and clinical data among HCV-positive renal transplant patients. Twenty-four HCV/RNA-positive patients with a previous liver biopsy were selected to undergo Fibroscan (transient elastography) and a clinical evaluation of liver function. Fibroscan values were expressed in kilopascals (kPa). As 2 patients were eliminated due to obesity or ascites, we analyzed 22 patients. Thirteen patients (59%) with fibrosis F0-F1 (METAVIR score) by biopsy and normal liver function showed a mean Fibroscan score of 5.2 kPa (range, 2.3-6.8 kPa). Three patients (13.6%) exhibited F2 by biopsy and normal liver function with a mean Fibroscan score of 8.2 kPa (range, 7.3-8.9 kPa). Three patients (13.6%) with F3 by biopsy and abnormal liver function showed a high mean Fibroscan score of 10.9 kPa (range, 10.5-11.6 kPa). The last 3 patients (13.6%) with F4 (cirrhosis) by biopsy and abnormal clinical data showed the highest mean Fibroscan value of 14.2 kPa (range, 8.9-18 kPa). In conclusion, among renal transplant patients with HCV the values of Fibroscan seem to correlate with the degree of fibrosis by biopsy and with clinical liver function. Therefore, Fibroscan may be useful to follow patients with LD. However, these results should be analyzed with caution due to the small number of cases and retrospective nature of the study."}
{"id": "19709363", "title": "An evaluation of transient elastography in the discrimination of HBeAg-negative disease from inactive hepatitis B carriers.", "content": "An evaluation of transient elastography in the discrimination of HBeAg-negative disease from inactive hepatitis B carriers. Liver biopsy is frequently required in HBeAg-negative disease to determine the stage of fibrosis. It can be difficult to distinguish cohorts with undetectable HBeAg who may have varying degrees of fibrosis due to different stages of disease. We have assessed the utility of transient elastography (TE) to evaluate differences in HBeAg-negative patients. A total of 220 HBsAg-positive individuals were studied: 125 (group 1) had an inactive HBsAg carrier state and 95 (group 2) were HBeAg-negative, anti-HBe-positive patients with persistently or intermittent elevation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and/or HBV DNA >10(5) copies/mL. Mean stiffness was 4.83 +/- 1.2 kPa in group 1 vs 8.53 +/- 6 kPa in group 2 (P < 0.001); statistically significant differences were also found between AST/ULN ALT/ULN ratios, HBV DNA in group 1 vs group 2, respectively (P < 0.001). In the multivariate analysis, the only variable independently associated with the stage of fibrosis was the stiffness. This study shows that mean hepatic stiffness by elastography is significantly lower in patients with inactive hepatitis B compared to those with HBeAg-negative disease. The procedure is a useful adjunct to diagnosis to confirm a clinical pattern of disease, and for more selective use of liver biopsy before considering antiviral therapy."}
{"id": "19703889", "title": "Liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis: noninvasive assessment with acoustic radiation force impulse imaging versus transient elastography.", "content": "Liver fibrosis in viral hepatitis: noninvasive assessment with acoustic radiation force impulse imaging versus transient elastography. To compare, in a pilot study, acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging technology integrated into a conventional ultrasonography (US) system with both transient elastography (TE) and serologic fibrosis marker testing for the noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis. Informed consent was obtained from all subjects, and the local ethics committee approved the study. ARFI imaging involved the mechanical excitation of tissue with use of short-duration acoustic pulses to generate localized displacements in tissue. The displacements resulted in shear-wave propagation, which was tracked by using US correlation-based methods and recorded in meters per second. Eighty-six patients with chronic viral hepatitis underwent TE, ARFI imaging, and serum fibrosis marker testing. Results were compared with liver biopsy findings, which served as the reference standard. ARFI imaging (rho = 0.71), TE (rho = 0.73), and serum fibrosis marker test (rho = 0.66) results correlated significantly with histologic fibrosis stage (P < .001). Median ARFI velocities ranged from 0.84 to 3.83 m/sec. Areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the accuracy of ARFI imaging, TE, and serum fibrosis marker testing were 0.82, 0.84, and 0.82, respectively, for the diagnosis of moderate fibrosis (histologic fibrosis stage, > or = 2) and 0.91, 0.91, and 0.82, respectively, for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. ARFI imaging is a promising US-based method for assessing liver fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis, with diagnostic accuracy comparable to that of TE in this preliminary study. http://radiology.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/252/2/595/DC1."}
{"id": "19610141", "title": "Applicability and variability of liver stiffness measurements according to probe position.", "content": "Applicability and variability of liver stiffness measurements according to probe position. To investigate the liver stiffness measurement (LSM) applicability and variability with reference to three probe positions according to the region of liver biopsy. The applicability for LSM was defined as at least 10 valid measurements with a success rate greater than 60% and an interquartile range/median LSM < 30%. The LSM variability compared the inter-position concordance and the concordance with FibroTest. Four hundred and forty two consecutive patients were included. The applicability of the anterior position (81%) was significantly higher than that of the reference (69%) and lower positions (68%), (both P = 0.0001). There was a significant difference (0.5 kPa, 95% CI 0.13-0.89; P < 0.0001) between mean LSM estimated at the reference position (9.3 kPa) vs the anterior position (8.8 kPa). Discordance between positions was associated with thoracic fold (P = 0.008). The discordance rate between the reference position result and FibroTest was higher when the 7.1 kPa cutoff was used to define advanced fibrosis instead of 8.8 kPa (33.6% vs 23.5%, P = 0.03). The anterior position of the probe should be the first choice for LSM using Fibroscan, as it has a higher applicability without higher variability compared to the usual liver biopsy position."}
{"id": "19578234", "title": "A review of the natural history of chronic hepatitis B in the era of transient elastography.", "content": "A review of the natural history of chronic hepatitis B in the era of transient elastography. Understanding the natural history of chronic hepatitis B is important in order to predict the prognosis, to stratify the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and to select appropriate candidates for antiviral treatment. Liver fibrosis is the pathogenic process that leads to liver cirrhosis. The study of liver fibrosis in the past has largely been hampered by the invasive nature of a liver biopsy. Most liver biopsy series represent biased populations with more active disease. Transient elastography is a reliable and non-invasive measurement of liver fibrosis that allows the study of liver fibrosis among patients without clinical indication for liver biopsy. Large studies using transient elastography in patients with predominantly normal alanine aminotransferase levels have been reported recently. The different roles of patient age, hepatitis B virus DNA and alanine aminotransferase levels in the risk stratification for advanced liver fibrosis have been defined in hepatitis B e antigen-positive and hepatitis B e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B patients. The relationship between metabolic syndrome and chronic hepatitis B is also explored. In this review, new insights from studies using transient elastography on the natural history of chronic hepatitis B with special focus on liver fibrosis will be summarized and discussed."}
{"id": "19563503", "title": "Insulin resistance is a major determinant of liver stiffness in nondiabetic patients with HCV genotype 1 chronic hepatitis.", "content": "Insulin resistance is a major determinant of liver stiffness in nondiabetic patients with HCV genotype 1 chronic hepatitis. In patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC), liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography (TE), is closely related to the stage of fibrosis, but may be affected by necroinflammation. Other factors, such as insulin resistance (IR), might influence the performance of LSM. To evaluate in a cohort of nondiabetic patients with genotype 1 CHC, whether IR and other anthropometric, biochemical, metabolic and histological factors contribute to LSM and to identify the best cut-off values of LSM for predicting different stages of fibrosis. Nondiabetic patients with genotype 1 CHC (n = 156) were evaluated by liver biopsy (Metavir score), anthropometric, biochemical and metabolic features including IR. Furthermore, all subjects underwent LSM by TE. Severe fibrosis (F3-F4) was associated with LSM (OR 1.291; 95%CI 1.106-1.508). LSM was also independently correlated with low platelets (P = 0.03), high gammaGT (P < 0.001) and high HOMA (P = 0.004) levels. A stiffness value > or =8 KPa was identified as the best cut-off for predicting severe fibrosis (AUC 0.870); yet this cut-off still failed to rule out F3-F4 fibrosis in 22.7% of patients (false-negative rate) or rule in F3-F4 in 19.6% (false-positive rate). Platelets <200 x 10(3)/mmc and a HOMA of >2.7 were the major determinants of these diagnostic errors in predicting severe fibrosis. Conclusions In nondiabetic patients with genotype 1 CHC, insulin resistance, gammaGT and platelet levels contribute to LSM independently of liver fibrosis. The identification of these three factors contributes to a more correct interpretation of LSM."}
{"id": "19562623", "title": "Assessment of liver stiffness in patients after living donor liver transplantation by transient elastography.", "content": "Assessment of liver stiffness in patients after living donor liver transplantation by transient elastography. Recurrence of hepatitis and progression of fibrosis are major problems in liver transplantation (LT) for patients with hepatitis C. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography correlates well with histologic liver fibrosis stages in chronic liver diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of transient elastography for the assessment of fibrosis in patients after living donor LT. Seventy-nine patients who visited our institution, and in whom LSM was successfully evaluated, were enrolled in the study. The patients were divided into three groups according to positivity for hepatitis C antibody and hepatitis B surface antigen as the hepatitis C virus (HCV) group (n=37), the hepatitis B virus (HBV) group (n=10), and the NBNC (negative for both hepatitis B and C) group (n=32). The correlation between LSM and histologic fibrosis stage was assessed in 36 patients. LSM was also compared with regard to the effect of interferon therapy in HCV patients. The median value for liver stiffness was 6.8 kPa and the median time from LT was 3.1 years. In patients who underwent liver biopsy, stiffness was significantly correlated with the stages of fibrosis (p<0.001, rho = 0.848). In patients who received interferon therapy after LT, the LSM decreased over time in those with a sustained virological response, whereas LSM increased in patients without a response. Transient elastography may be an appropriate non-invasive procedure to sequentially assess the progression of liver fibrosis in patients after LT."}
{"id": "19524169", "title": "Transient elastography for liver fibrosis diagnosis.", "content": "Transient elastography for liver fibrosis diagnosis. Liver biopsy is considered the \"golden standard\" for assessment of hepatic fibrosis. However, the procedure has limitations because of inconvenience and rare but serious complications as bleeding. Furthermore, sampling errors are frequent, and interobserver variability often poses problems. Recently, a modified ultrasound scanner (transient elastography) has been developed to assess fibrosis. The device measures liver elasticity, which correlates well with the degree of fibrosis. Studies have shown that transient elastography is more accurate in diagnosing cirrhosis than minor to moderate fibrosis. Most of the studies have been conducted on patients with chronic hepatitis but a few studies have also covered fibrosis and cirrhosis due to other etiologies, and they also demonstrate the high sensitivity and specificity. Transient elastography for assessment of fibrosis may turn out to be a valuable diagnostic procedure and follow-up of patients with chronic liver diseases."}
{"id": "19519733", "title": "Systematic review: non-invasive methods of fibrosis analysis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Systematic review: non-invasive methods of fibrosis analysis in chronic hepatitis C. Accurate determination of the presence and degree of liver fibrosis is essential for prognosis and for planning treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV). Non-invasive methods of assessing fibrosis have been developed to reduce the need for biopsy. To perform a review of these non-invasive measures and their ability to replace biopsy for assessing hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic HCV. A systematic review of PUBMED and EMBASE was performed through 2008 using the following search terms: HCV, liver, elastography, hepatitis, Fibroscan, SPECT, noninvasive liver fibrosis, ultrasonography, Doppler, MRI, Fibrotest, Fibrosure, Actitest, APRI, Forns and breath tests, alone or in combination. We identified 151 studies: 87 using biochemical, 57 imaging and seven breath tests either alone or in combination. Great strides are being made in the development of accurate non-invasive methods for determination of fibrosis. Although no single non-invasive test or model developed to date can match that information obtained from actual histology (i.e. inflammation, fibrosis, steatosis), combinations of two modalities of non-invasive methods can reliably differentiate between minimal and significant fibrosis, and thereby avoid liver biopsy in a significant percentage of patients."}
{"id": "19505671", "title": "Non-invasive diagnosis and monitoring of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.", "content": "Non-invasive diagnosis and monitoring of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. The accurate staging of liver fibrosis in chronic liver diseases, especially the early diagnosis of liver cirrhosis, is crucial for prognostic assessment of the course of the disease. The histological evaluation of a liver biopsy cylinder is still the gold standard in assessing the stage of liver fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is an invasive procedure and carries the risk of complications. This has to be balanced against the information benefit of liver histology. To overcome this, non-invasive tests were developed assessing liver fibrosis based on combinations of laboratory markers or techniques measuring liver elasticity. In this review the current impact of the non invasive methods is discussed and weighted against liver biopsy."}
{"id": "19502649", "title": "Non-invasive assessment of fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Non-invasive assessment of fibrosis in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease in Western countries, and its prevalence is increasing worldwide. It currently affects approximately 30% of adults and 10% of children and adolescents. The resulting increase in the number of patients with NAFLD is expected to translate into increased numbers of patients with liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In this context, it is particularly important to identify patients at risk for progressive chronic liver disease. Currently, liver biopsy is the gold standard to diagnose non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and to establish the presence and stage of fibrosis. Due to the remarkable increase in the prevalence of NAFLD and the concomitant efforts in developing novel therapies for patients with NASH, non-invasive, simple, reproducible, and reliable non-invasive methodologies are needed. This paper provides a concise overview of the role of non-invasive diagnostic tools for the determination of presence and extent of fibrosis in NAFLD patients, with particular emphasis on the methods currently available in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19482565", "title": "Transient elastography for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis: the missing tool?", "content": "Transient elastography for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis: the missing tool? The fibrogenic evolution of chronic viral hepatitis B and C towards cirrhosis represents a key issue in clinical Hepatology whose monitoring still relies on liver biopsy and consequent histopathological staging. In the last decade, non-invasive methodologies have been proposed to predict the presence of fibrosis in chronic liver disease. Most of these methods are based on algorithms, including biochemical parameters, which have demonstrated an acceptable diagnostic accuracy towards the two extremities of the fibrogenetic process. The introduction of transient elastography has represented a further advancement in clinical Hepatology and it seems that the combination of different non-invasive methodologies will provide an improvement in the clinical management of disease progression in viral chronic hepatitis. Studies, conducted especially in chronic viral hepatitis C, suggest that transient elastography is a useful technique for the detection of severe fibrosis-cirrhosis and for the exclusion of significant fibrosis (>or=F2), that could be employed as \"diagnostic discriminator\" for establishing clinical priorities and reducing the number of liver biopsies. This review article will focus on the clinical utility of this novel methodology for the assessment of liver fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis and will highlight potential further advantages."}
{"id": "19478678", "title": "Relationships between fibrosis amounts assessed by morphometry and liver stiffness measurements in chronic hepatitis or steatohepatitis.", "content": "Relationships between fibrosis amounts assessed by morphometry and liver stiffness measurements in chronic hepatitis or steatohepatitis. To examine the relationships between fibrosis amounts evaluated by morphometric analysis and liver stiffness measurement (LSM) as well as the influence of steatosis, of activity grade and of the type of chronic liver injury. One hundred and fifty-two consecutive patients were selected from a prospective cohort of patients with concurrent liver biopsy and LSM on the basis of a more than 25 mm long liver biopsy. Morphometric quantification of collagen deposition was expressed as fibrosis area fraction (FAF). Steatosis, activity grade, and predominant type of liver injury (chronic hepatitis or steatohepatitis) were assessed. In the whole population (chronic viral hepatitis n = 96, alcoholic or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis n = 56), FAF was significantly correlated to LSM (rho = 0.6, P<0.0001). Steatosis independently influenced LSM in patients without cirrhosis, but not activity grade. In the absence of cirrhosis, LSM and FAF were correlated in patients with chronic hepatitis (rho = 0.49, P<0.0001) but not in those with steatohepatitis (rho = 0.22, P = 0.16). In cirrhotic patients, LSM was correlated with fibrosis amount. (rho = 0.43, P = 0.006). The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve of LSM was 0.75 for separating no or minor fibrosis from significant fibrosis and 0.9 for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. LSM was significantly correlated with collagen deposition. However, the relationships between LSM and fibrosis amount seems to differ according to steatosis and to the pattern of liver fibrosis below the cirrhotic stage. Its performances are fair for segregating patients with no or minor fibrosis from those with significant fibrosis and high for the diagnosis of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "19477552", "title": "[Utility of Fibroscan in the evaluation of liver fibrosis].", "content": "[Utility of Fibroscan in the evaluation of liver fibrosis]. Chronic liver diseases produce a progressive accumulation of collagenous fiber in the liver parenchyma. For years, liver biopsy has been the gold standard to quantify liver fibrosis. Currently, non-invasive alternatives are available to quantify fibrosis. Transient elastography (TE) or Fibroscan quantifies liver rigidity, which is proportional to the grade of liver fibrosis. Studies are available that have evaluated the reliability and limitations of TE in healthy individuals, in patients with acute hepatitis, in distinct chronic liver diseases and in liver transplant recipients. TE is reliable for the diagnosis of liver cirrhosis (F4) and significant fibrosis (F2) but its values may vary according to the patient's characteristics and the etiology of the disease. TE can avoid liver biopsy in 90% of patients with cirrhosis and in up to 70% of those with significant fibrosis when combined with other non-invasive methods."}
{"id": "19457152", "title": "Increased liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in severe acute exacerbation of chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Increased liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in severe acute exacerbation of chronic hepatitis B. The proposed cut-off values for the degree of fibrosis as assessed by liver stiffness measurement (LSM) might not be applicable in severe acute exacerbation of chronic hepatitis B (CHB). We aimed to assess the effect of necroinflammatory activity on LSM in this condition. We prospectively recruited consecutive patients with severe acute exacerbation of CHB (alanine aminotransferase or ALT > 10x upper limit of normal). The relationship of ALT levels and LSM were serially assessed and liver biopsy was carried out after ALT normalization. Eleven patients (10 male, median age 43 years) were followed up for 25 weeks; nine patients received antiviral therapy. Overall, LSM was positively correlated with ALT levels (r = 0.67, P < 0.001). At initial presentation, the median serum ALT and LSM was 1136 (581-2210) IU/L and 26.3 (11.1-33.3) kPa. A progressive reduction in LSM was observed during subsequent visits in parallel with the reduction of ALT levels. At the last visit, the median ALT was 27 (11-52) IU/L and LSM was 7.7 (4.7-10.8) kPa. Among the five patients who had liver biopsy carried out at week 25, four patients had F2 fibrosis (LSM 5.7-8.1 kPa) and one patient had F3 fibrosis (LSM 8.6 kPa). LSM using transient elastography with the current proposed cut-off values might misdiagnose liver cirrhosis in patients suffering from severe acute exacerbation of CHB. LSM should be assessed after normalization of ALT levels in order to accurately assess the degree of fibrosis."}
{"id": "19457153", "title": "An evaluation of the potential cost-effectiveness of non-invasive testing strategies in the diagnosis of significant liver fibrosis.", "content": "An evaluation of the potential cost-effectiveness of non-invasive testing strategies in the diagnosis of significant liver fibrosis. To assess the clinical and economic outcomes of non-invasive testing strategies in the diagnosis of significant liver fibrosis (Metavir score >or= 2) compared with liver biopsy. We developed a decision analytic model of non-invasive testing strategies in a hypothetical patient population with genotype 1 hepatitis C virus infection, with no contraindications to liver biopsy. The testing strategies included a testing algorithm using the Fibrosure test, a non-invasive measure of fibrosis, followed by liver biopsy for patients with indeterminate results, Fibrospect II, and Fibroscan. The primary outcomes were sensitivity, specificity, diagnostic accuracy (true positive + true negatives/total patients), and costs, evaluated from the health-care payer perspective. The testing algorithm using Fibrosure was the most accurate non-invasive strategy with a sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of 84%, 87%, and 86%, respectively. In comparison with liver biopsy alone, there was a cost savings of approximately $770/person with the Fibrosure testing algorithm, but a net decrease in accuracy of 14%. Fibrospect II and Fibroscan had poorer accuracy (decreases of 12% and 4%, respectively) and lower costs (-$138 and -$357, respectively) compared with the Fibrosure algorithm. In uncertainty analyses in which biopsy sampling error was considered, the Fibrosure algorithm remained consistently less accurate (5-14% decrease). The results of our study suggest that compared with liver biopsy, non-invasive testing algorithms can result in short-term cost savings, but the consequences of misdiagnosis in terms of health outcomes and treatment costs might outweigh the short-term gains in cost and convenience."}
{"id": "19446446", "title": "[Value of transient elastography in noninvasive assessment in children's hepatic fibrosis].", "content": "[Value of transient elastography in noninvasive assessment in children's hepatic fibrosis]. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a novel, noninvasive, rapid bedside method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness. This study aimed to determine the feasibility and reliability of liver stiffness measurement in children with liver diseases. Liver stiffness measurements were carried out on 72 children, from 4 to 18 years of age, with potential hepatic fibrosis disease. The clinical, biological, ultrasonographic, and endoscopic parameters were noted to identify children with portal hypertension syndrome. The APRI (ASAT-to-platelet ratio index) test was calculated according to the standard formula. An APRI test score higher than 1.5 indicates significant hepatic fibrosis. METAVIR scoring from 14 liver biopsies was compared to the liver stiffness using the Kappa statistic. Twenty-eight patients had viral hepatitis, 20 cystic fibrosis, 16 chronic liver cholestasis, 5 autoimmune hepatitis, and 3 patients had liver fibrosis with uncertain etiology. FibroScan measurements were available in all children. There was good agreement between FibroScan and pathological studies (weighted kappa=0.814). Only 9 children had portal hypertension syndrome with an average measurement of liver stiffness significantly higher than children without portal hypertension (26.5kPa vs 6.4kPa; p<0.01). The APRI test for 6 out of 9 patients scored higher than 1.5. These results indicate that liver stiffness measurement is feasible in children and seems to be related to liver fibrosis. Larger prospective studies are needed to validate this FibroScan method."}
{"id": "19434742", "title": "Prospective risk assessment for hepatocellular carcinoma development in patients with chronic hepatitis C by transient elastography.", "content": "Prospective risk assessment for hepatocellular carcinoma development in patients with chronic hepatitis C by transient elastography. Liver stiffness, noninvasively measured by transient elastography, correlates well with liver fibrosis stage. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the liver stiffness measurement (LSM) as a predictor of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development among patients with chronic hepatitis C. Between December 2004 and June 2005, a total of 984 HCV-RNA positive patients, without HCC or a past history of it, visited the University of Tokyo Hospital. LSM was performed successfully in 866 patients, who gave informed consent. During the follow-up period (mean, 3.0 years), HCC developed in 77 patients (2.9% per 1 person-year). The cumulative incidence rates of HCC at 1, 2, and 3 years were 2.4%, 6.0%, and 8.9%, respectively. Adjusting for other significant factors for HCC development, patients with higher LSM were revealed to be at a significantly higher risk, with a hazard ratio, as compared to LSM < or =10 kPa, of 16.7 (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.71-75.2; P < 0.001) when LSM 10.1-15 kPa, 20.9 (95% CI, 4.43-98.8; P < 0.001) when LSM 15.1-20 kPa, 25.6 (95%CI, 5.21-126.1; P < 0.001) when LSM 20.1-25 kPa, and 45.5 (95% CI, 9.75-212.3; P < 0.001) when LSM >25 kPa. This prospective study has shown the association between LSM and the risk of HCC development in patients with hepatitis C. The utility of LSM is not limited to a surrogate for liver biopsy but can be applied as an indicator of the wide range of the risk of HCC development."}
{"id": "19430093", "title": "Overestimation of liver fibrosis staging using transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis C and significant liver inflammation.", "content": "Overestimation of liver fibrosis staging using transient elastography in patients with chronic hepatitis C and significant liver inflammation. Transient elastography (TE) is a non-invasive method that allows liver fibrosis staging on the basis of hepatic stiffness measurements. Little is known about the influence of chronic liver inflammation on the stiffness of hepatic tissue. A total of 112 patients with chronic hepatitis C underwent a liver biopsy and TE. Mean values of liver stiffness (in kPa) by inflammation strata were 4.8, 6.4, 9.4 and 12.6 for A0, A1, A2 and A3, respectively, in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-monoinfected individuals (P=0.018). These figures were 8.0, 10.4, 12.9 and 12.6 for A0, A1, A2 and A3, respectively, in HIV-HCV-coinfected patients (P=0.35). In HCV-monoinfected patients with fibrosis staging F3-F4, mean liver stiffness was greater if inflammation was > or =A2 versus A0-A1 (14.6 versus 6.2 kPa; P=0.04). By contrast, no differences in liver stiffness according to inflammation were seen in HCV-monoinfected patients with <F3 or in HIV-HCV-coinfected patients regardless of liver fibrosis staging. Among HCV-monoinfected patients, mean liver stiffness was greater for alanine aminotransferase >100 versus <100 IU/l (10.5 versus 8.5 kPa; P=0.04). The extent of liver inflammation might affect the accuracy of TE for staging liver fibrosis, particularly in HCV-monoinfected patients with advanced fibrosis on liver biopsy and/or increased alanine aminotransferase levels."}
{"id": "19426398", "title": "Validity of FibroScan values for predicting hepatic fibrosis stage in patients with chronic HCV infection.", "content": "Validity of FibroScan values for predicting hepatic fibrosis stage in patients with chronic HCV infection. The aim of this study was to validate the FibroScan system compared with liver histology and serum markers for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis. We also tried to determine the cut-off levels and assess the feasibility of using FibroScan values to predict the fibrosis stage. In 44 patients with HCV infection, liver stiffness was evaluated by FibroScan, serum fibrosis markers and a liver biopsy. Associations between these indices were also analyzed. FibroScan values showed a good correlation with serum levels of type IV collagen, hyaluronic acid and procollagen-III-peptide, and with the platelet count. Compared with liver histology, the FibroScan values increased proportionally with the progression of the histological fibrosis stage. Advanced fibrosis (F3 or F4) could be efficiently predicted by a FibroScan cut-off value of 15 kPa. The FibroScan sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy were 100%, 73.9%, 77.8%, 100%, and 86.4%, respectively. FibroScan values gave a good correlation with various markers of fibrosis and increased proportionally with the progression of the hepatic fibrosis stage. A FibroScan value of 15 kPa was found to be a significant separation limit for differentiating advanced fibrosis stages (F3 and F4) from the milder stages (F0-F2). FibroScan values are clinically useful for predicting the fibrosis stages and helpful in managing interferon therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C."}
{"id": "19399815", "title": "Evaluation of the patient with hepatitis B.", "content": "Evaluation of the patient with hepatitis B. The initial evaluation of a patient with hepatitis B virus infection should attempt to assess the disease activity and stage in the context of the known natural history of this infection and to properly assess the needs for treatment and surveillance. In addition to a medical history and focused physical examination, the initial evaluation usually requires serological, biochemical, and virological tests to confirm the diagnosis as well as an imaging study to establish a baseline for future monitoring. A liver biopsy is generally not needed but can provide useful information on prognosis, need for surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and whether to recommend therapy. Follow-up monitoring is aimed at determining disease progression, development of complications, and reassessing the need for treatment. Monitoring frequency should be determined based on the activity and stage of disease. Initiation of screening for HCC should be based on age, race, sex, family history, and stage and duration of disease. The current recommended method of screening and surveillance for HCC is by ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein measurements every 6-12 months. Prospective studies are needed to evaluate the role of longitudinal application of noninvasive assays of fibrosis, such as serum fibrosis markers and transient elastography. Better biomarkers and imaging modalities are needed for early detection of HCC. Finally, studies are needed to better refine the indications and to balance the risks and benefits of antiviral therapy."}
{"id": "19381121", "title": "Noninvasive diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Noninvasive diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease, affecting approximately 30% of Western populations and a frequent indication for liver transplantation. The histologic spectrum of NAFLD includes simple steatosis, which has a benign prognosis, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, a more aggressive form of liver injury that may progress to cirrhosis and its complications. At present, the only widely accepted means of differentiating these lesions, including the severity of hepatic fibrosis, is liver biopsy. However, due to the invasiveness of this procedure, the rising prevalence of NAFLD, and the expected availability of effective therapies for this condition, the identification of noninvasive tools for the diagnosis and staging of NAFLD has emerged as a major clinical and research priority. This review summarizes important advances in this field during the past decade, including the development of biomarkers of hepatic fibrosis, apoptosis, and inflammation; novel imaging techniques such as transient elastography; and high-throughput technologies including proteomics and genomics. Future studies must focus on the development of accurate, inexpensive, and reliable tools that can differentiate the major histologic determinants of NAFLD; are responsive to changes in NAFLD severity due to therapeutic intervention and time; and have prognostic significance. Until such tools are developed, liver biopsy remains an important tool in the assessment of patients with NAFLD."}
{"id": "19376422", "title": "FibroScan evaluation of liver fibrosis in liver transplantation.", "content": "FibroScan evaluation of liver fibrosis in liver transplantation. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard to evaluate fibrosis. However, it is invasive and uncomfortable as well as associated with complications. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a simple and noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness in kilopascals. Body mass index (BMI) greater than 28 is associated with high rates of invalid tests. Liver transplant patients show increased rates of obesity. We do not yet have many data about the usefulness of FibroScan in liver transplantation. To analyze the applicability of FibroScan to assess fibrosis in liver transplantation and study the association between obesity and valid tests. We prospectively assessed the performance of transient elastography in 29 liver transplant patients from February to May 2008. We prospectively studied the success rate, the elasticity (stiffness) in kilopascals, and the BMI. The BMI was greater than 30 kg/m(2) in four patients; 25 to 30 kg/m(2) in eight; and 17 had BMI < 25 kg/m(2). The overall success of FibroScan was 24/29 (82.7%). However, among patients with BMI > 30 kg/m(2), it was 2/4 (50%), whereas for BMI <25 kg/m(2) it climbed to 100%. The average duration of the procedure was 211.52 seconds for BMI <25 kg/m(2); 236 seconds for BMI between 25 and 30 kg/m(2); and 361 seconds in patients with a BMI > 30 kg/m(2)-differences that were statistically significant. FibroScan seemed to be a promising approach to assess liver fibrosis.BMI is a limiting factor toward achieving a valid test; FibroScan had limited usefulness in obese patients."}
{"id": "19346784", "title": "[The usefulness of transient elastography to diagnose cirrhosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease].", "content": "[The usefulness of transient elastography to diagnose cirrhosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease]. It is not easy to differentiate between patients with cirrhosis and those with alcoholic liver disease. Liver biopsy is generally considered the gold standard for assessing hepatic fibrosis; however, this protocol frequently carries a risk of severe complications and false-negative results. Transient elastography (Fibroscan, Echosens, Paris, France), which is a noninvasive method of measuring liver stiffness, has become available for assessing liver fibrosis. Liver stiffness reportedly differs markedly with the cirrhosis etiology. The aim of this study was thus to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the Fibroscan in the detection of cirrhosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease. We enrolled 45 patients with alcoholic liver disease. Fibroscan, abdominal ultrasonography, aspartate aminotransferase/platelet ratio index (APRI), and liver biopsy were performed on all patients. Fibrosis stage was assessed using the Batts-Ludwig scoring system. The stage of fibrosis (F1-F4) was distributed among the cohort as follows: 5 patients at F1, 4 patients at F2, 7 patients at F3, and 29 patients at F4. Liver stiffness differed significantly between each fibrosis stage (P<0.001). For the diagnosis of cirrhosis, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.97 for transient elastography (95% confidence interval, CI, 0.93-1.01), 0.81 for ultrasonography (95% CI, 0.68-0.94), and 0.83 for APRI score (95% CI, 0.70-0.95). The optimal cut-off value of liver stiffness for detecting cirrhosis was 25.8 kPa, with a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 87%. Transient elastography is a useful method for diagnosing cirrhosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease."}
{"id": "19337635", "title": "Transient elastographic evaluation of subjects without known hepatic pathology: does age change the liver stiffness?", "content": "Transient elastographic evaluation of subjects without known hepatic pathology: does age change the liver stiffness? Chronic liver diseases are investigated through invasive (liver biopsy) or non-invasive (FibroScan or FibroTest) methods. Recently the non-invasive methods have become more and more popular. The aim of this paper is to evaluate the liver stiffness (LS) measured by transient elastography in individuals without known hepatic pathology (\"normal\" subjects) and to see if it is influenced by age. We examined a group of \"normal\" subjects by means of a FibroScan device (EchoSens, France). In each patient we performed 10 valid measurements and a median value was calculated by the device. The subjects were individuals without known hepatic pathology: healthy volunteers or patients from departments other than Gastroenterology in our hospital. We evaluated 152 \"normal\" subjects (87 women and 65 men, mean age 45.3 + or - 17.6 years). The mean value of LS in \"normal\" subjects was 4.8 + or - 1.3 kPa, ranging from 2.3 to 8.8 kPa. The mean values of LS in age subgroups were: 18-29 years - 5 + or - 1.3 kPa; 30-39 years - 4.5 + or - 1.2kPa; 40-49 years - 5 = or - 1.1kPa; 50-59 years - 4.7 + or - 1.2kPa; 60-69 years - 5 + or - 1.3kPa; >70 years - 4.7 + or - 1.4kPa. There were no statistically significant differences between the mean values of LS in various age subgroups (p=0.5263). The mean value of LS measured by transient elastography in \"normal\" subjects was lower than 5 kPa. Age does not modify the LS."}
{"id": "19322509", "title": "Real time elastography for noninvasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Real time elastography for noninvasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis. The accurate preoperative evaluation of liver fibrosis stage is important in determining surgical procedures. Although percutaneous liver biopsy is the gold standard, it may cause undesirable complications, such as bleeding. This study aimed to evaluate the usefulness of real-time tissue elastography for the preoperative assessment of liver fibrosis stage. We focused on a new mode of sonogram, real-time elastography, which can show tissue elasticity on images, and express the elasticity numerically. The elastic ratio of the liver for the intercostal muscle for each patient was calculated preoperatively, using the sonography device. The liver fibrosis stages were finally determined in the operative specimens from 41 patients. We examined the correlation between the elastic ratio and the histological fibrosis stage. The lower the elastic ratio, the more advanced was the liver fibrosis stage. There was a significant correlation between the elastic ratio and the histological fibrosis stage. The area under the receiver-operating characteristics curve for the diagnosis of significant liver fibrosis using this device was superior to those conventionally determined by blood parameters. Real-time elastography is a promising sonography-based noninvasive method for the preoperative assessment of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "19308312", "title": "FibroScan and ultrasonography in the prediction of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis.", "content": "FibroScan and ultrasonography in the prediction of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic performances of liver stiffness measurement (LSM), ultrasonography (US) and their combined use in predicting the extent of hepatic fibrosis. Consecutive patients with chronic hepatitis B (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections, with indications for liver biopsy, were prospectively enrolled. LSM was performed on the same day as biopsy. US scores, including assessment of liver surface, liver parenchyma, intrahepatic vessels and spleen index, were used to assess the degree of hepatic fibrosis. The pathological findings were used as a reference standard and diagnostic accuracy was assessed and compared. Three-hundred and twenty patients, including 199 men and 121 women, with a mean age of 50.8 years, were analyzed. There were 214 (66.9%) HCV patients, 88 (27.5%) HBV patients and 18 (5.6%) patients with both HCV and HBV. LSM correlated significantly with the hepatic fibrosis (F) scores, necro-inflammatory activity and US scores in multivariate analysis. The diagnostic accuracy of LSM is significantly superior to US, and equal to combined LSM with US, in the prediction of all HCV-related fibrosis scores. The cut-off value of LSM is 6 kPa for diagnosing F > =1, with a positive predictive value of 91%. Also, the cut-off value is 12 kPa for the prediction of cirrhosis, with a negative predictive value of 94%. LSM is useful for predicting hepatic fibrosis and excluding cirrhosis. A combination of LSM and US does not improve the accuracy in assessing hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "19291784", "title": "SAFE biopsy: a validated method for large-scale staging of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "SAFE biopsy: a validated method for large-scale staging of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. The staging of liver fibrosis is pivotal for defining the prognosis and indications for therapy in hepatitis C. Although liver biopsy remains the gold standard, several noninvasive methods are under evaluation for clinical use. The aim of this study was to validate the recently described sequential algorithm for fibrosis evaluation (SAFE) biopsy, which detects significant fibrosis (> or =F2 by METAVIR) and cirrhosis (F4) by combining the AST-to-platelet ratio index and Fibrotest-Fibrosure, thereby limiting liver biopsy to cases not adequately classifiable by noninvasive markers. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) patients (2035) were enrolled in nine locations in Europe and the United States. The diagnostic accuracy of SAFE biopsy versus histology, which is the gold standard, was investigated. The reduction in the need for liver biopsies achieved with SAFE biopsy was also assessed. SAFE biopsy identified significant fibrosis with 90.1% accuracy (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.89; 95% confidence interval, 0.87-0.90) and reduced by 46.5% the number of liver biopsies needed. SAFE biopsy had 92.5% accuracy (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.92; 95% confidence interval, 0.89-0.94) for the detection of cirrhosis, obviating 81.5% of liver biopsies. A third algorithm identified significant fibrosis and cirrhosis simultaneously with high accuracy and a 36% reduction in the need for liver biopsy. The patient's age and body mass index influenced the performance of SAFE biopsy, which was improved with adjusted Fibrotest-Fibrosure cutoffs. Two hundred two cases (9.9%) had discordant results for significant fibrosis with SAFE biopsy versus histology, whereas 153 cases (7.5%) were discordant for cirrhosis detection; 71 of the former cases and 56 of the latter cases had a Fibroscan measurement within 2 months of histological evaluation. Fibroscan confirmed SAFE biopsy findings in 83.1% and 75%, respectively. SAFE biopsy is a rational and validated method for staging liver fibrosis in hepatitis C with a marked reduction in the need for liver biopsy. It is an attractive tool for large-scale screening of HCV carriers."}
{"id": "19254351", "title": "Transient elastography and other noninvasive tests to assess hepatic fibrosis in patients with viral hepatitis.", "content": "Transient elastography and other noninvasive tests to assess hepatic fibrosis in patients with viral hepatitis. The limitations of liver biopsy (invasive procedure, sampling errors, inter-observer variability and nondynamic fibrosis evaluation) have stimulated the search for noninvasive approaches for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with viral hepatitis. A variety of methods including the measurement of liver stiffness, using transient elastography, and serum markers, ranging from routine laboratory tests to more complex algorithms or indices combining the results of panels of markers, have been proposed. Among serum indices, Fibrotest has been the most extensively studied and validated. Transient elastography appears as a promising method but has been mostly validated in chronic hepatitis C with performance equivalent to that of serum markers for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis. The combination of both approaches as first-line assessment of liver fibrosis could avoid the performance of liver biopsy in the majority of patients with chronic hepatitis C, a strategy that deserves further evaluation in patients with hepatitis B or HIV-HCV coinfection. Transient elastography also appears to be an excellent tool for early detection of cirrhosis and may have prognostic value in this setting. Guidelines are now awaited for the use of noninvasive methods in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19236541", "title": "Assessment of fibrosis in chronic liver diseases.", "content": "Assessment of fibrosis in chronic liver diseases. The assessment of liver fibrosis provides useful information not only for diagnosis but also for therapeutic decisions. Although liver biopsy is the current gold standard for fibrosis assessment, it has some risks and limitations, including intra-observer and inter-observer variation, sampling error and variability. In recent years, many studies and great interest have been dedicated to the development of non-invasive tests to substitute a liver biopsy for fibrosis assessment and follow up. Advances in serological and radiological tests such as serum marker panels, transient elastography and their combinations can assess fibrosis accurately and reduce the need for a liver biopsy. But at present, all have failed to completely replace a liver biopsy because of their respective limitations and an imperfect gold standard used in current researches. The searching for an ideal surrogate is still in progress."}
{"id": "19236273", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in persons with hepatitis C virus infection or HIV-hepatitis C virus coinfection.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in persons with hepatitis C virus infection or HIV-hepatitis C virus coinfection. Transient elastography is a novel, noninvasive method for staging liver fibrosis. We compared elastography with histologic methods among hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-HCV-coinfected participants in an urban, predominantly black study population. Participants recruited from the AIDS Linked to the Intravenous Experience and the Johns Hopkins HIV Clinical Cohort studies underwent elastography to determine liver stiffness measurements. Liver biopsy specimens were staged F0-F4 in accordance with the Metavir score. Diagnostic accuracy and determination of liver stiffness cutoff values, compared with histologic methods, were determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis. Logistic regression methods identified parameters associated with discordant classification status. Of 192 participants, 139 (72%) were coinfected with HIV and HCV, 121 (63%) had insignificant fibrosis, and 48 (25%) had cirrhosis. Overall, the area-under-the-curve receiver operating characteristic was 0.87 for detection of both significant fibrosis (95% confidence interval, 0.82-0.92) and cirrhosis (95% confidence interval, 0.81-0.93). With use of cutoff values of 9.3 kPa for fibrosis and 12.3 kPa for cirrhosis, 79%-83% of participants were correctly classified by liver stiffness measurement (compared with histologic methods); accuracy appeared to be higher among HIV-uninfected participants than among HIV-infected participants. Most discordance occurred when liver stiffness measurements indicated liver disease and histologic examination did not (in 16% of participants); the patients with these discordant results were more likely to have attributes that increased the odds of significant fibrosis, such as elevated serum fibrosis markers or HIV-related immunosuppression, compared with persons in whom low fibrosis was predicted by both examination of a biopsy specimen and elastography. For most HCV-infected persons, fibrosis stage predicted by elastography is similar to that predicted by examination of a biopsy specimen. Elastography-based measurement of liver stiffness holds promise to expand liver disease screening and monitoring, particularly among injection drug users."}
{"id": "19215579", "title": "Noninvasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with HIV infection and HCV/HBV co-infection.", "content": "Noninvasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with HIV infection and HCV/HBV co-infection. The measurement of fibrosis stage critically affects the identification of the progression of liver disease, the establishment of a prognosis and therapeutic decision making. Liver biopsy has been the single, most useful method to determine the degree of liver fibrosis (LF), but with recognized limitations, mainly associated with its invasiveness. In recent years, alternative noninvasive methods have been developed, including imaging methods, such as transient elastometry, and assays based on serum biomarkers. This article reviews the available studies evaluating the value of various noninvasive methods for the assessment of LF in patients with HIV-infection and HBV/HCV co-infection, and makes recommendations on how to best use and combine them in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19175875", "title": "Changes of non-invasive markers and FibroScan values during HCV treatment.", "content": "Changes of non-invasive markers and FibroScan values during HCV treatment. The recent advent of non-invasive methods for assessment of fibrosis allows serial assessments in all patients with hepatitis C. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate changes in liver fibrosis, as measured with non-invasive methods, in a large cohort of HCV-infected patients with and without treatment. From May 2003 through March 2006, all previously untreated HCV-infected patients were enrolled in this study. Liver fibrosis was staged with FibroScan and Fibrotest at inclusion, then every year in untreated patients, and at the end of treatment and 6 months later in treated patients. The study population consisted of 416 patients, of whom 112 started treatment after enrolment. In the treatment group, FibroScan and Fibrotest values were significantly higher before and after treatment than in untreated patients at baseline and after 1 year. However, there was no significant difference between treated and untreated patients at the end of follow-up. FibroScan and Fibrotest values fell in all treated patients, whatever their virological response. In multivariate analysis, treatment was the only factor independently associated with a fall in the FibroScan value. In conclusion, whatever the virological response, treatment for HCV infection is associated with an improvement of FibroScan and Fibrotest values. Further studies are needed to compare these non-invasive methods with liver biopsy. These non-invasive methods, and especially FibroScan, should be useful for assessing treatment efficacy in clinical trials of new drugs."}
{"id": "19140221", "title": "Factors of accuracy of transient elastography (fibroscan) for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Factors of accuracy of transient elastography (fibroscan) for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. The purpose of this study was to assess the influence of success rate and interquartile range on the accuracy of transient elastography for the diagnostic of fibrosis in hepatitis C virus infection. Two-hundred fifty-four consecutive patients had liver stiffness measurements and liver biopsy of at least 15 mm. Discordances of at least two stages between transient elastography and histological assessment were observed in 28 cases (11%). Factors of discordance were assessed by comparing the 28 misclassified cases with the 226 others. In multivariate analysis, fibrosis stage (F0-F2 versus F3-F4) and the ratio interquartile range/median value of liver stiffness measurement (IQR/M) were associated with discordances (P <or= 0.05). The most significantly discriminant cutoff value was 0.21. For IQR/M < 0.21 versus IQR/M >or= 0.21, discordances of at least two stages of fibrosis were respectively observed in 10 of 135 cases (7.4%) versus 18 of 119 cases (15.1%) (P <or= 0.05). In patients with IQR/M >or= 0.21 versus IQR/M < 0.21, for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis F >or= 2, F >or= 3, F = 4, areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROCs) were 0.80 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.73-0.89) versus 0.81 (95% CI, 0.70-0.90), (P = NS); 0.80 (95% CI, 0.72-0.88) versus 0.89 (95% CI, 0.83-0.95) (P = 0.04); and 0.86 (95% CI, 0.77-0.94) versus 0.95 (95% CI, 0.92-0.99) (P = NS). No association was found between success rate and discordance. IQR/M is a factor of overestimation of liver fibrosis, and the most discriminant cutoff value is 0.21. Success rate is not a factor of accuracy for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "19138576", "title": "Non-invasive biomarkers of liver fibrosis in liver transplant patients with hepatitis C: can we avoid liver biopsies?", "content": "Non-invasive biomarkers of liver fibrosis in liver transplant patients with hepatitis C: can we avoid liver biopsies?"}
{"id": "19121647", "title": "Clinical factors associated with liver stiffness in hepatitis B e antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B patients.", "content": "Clinical factors associated with liver stiffness in hepatitis B e antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B patients. We analyzed the clinical factors associated with advanced liver fibrosis in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B patients. We prospectively recruited treatment-naive HBeAg-positive patients for liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography. Insignificant and advanced fibrosis was defined as an LSM of 6.0 kPa or less, and greater than 9.0 kPa for patients with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels less than or equal to the f upper limit of normal (ULN), and 7.5 kPa or less and greater than 9.0 kPa for those with ALT levels between 1 and 5 x ULN, respectively, based on a previous study with histologic validation. A total of 453 patients were studied. Among 74 patients who also had a liver biopsy, the cut-off levels for advanced fibrosis had 95% specificity. Age and ALT level, but not hepatitis B virus DNA level, were associated independently with LSM. Based on receiver operating characteristics curve analysis, patients older than 35 years had the highest specificity for advanced fibrosis. The risk of advanced fibrosis increased in patients with an ALT level greater than 0.5 x ULN. Among the 47 patients who were older than 35 years with an ALT level of 0.5 x ULN or less, 39 (83%) had an LSM suggestive of insignificant fibrosis, and 1 (2%) had advanced fibrosis. Among the 217 patients who were older than 35 years with an ALT level greater than 0.5 x ULN, 61 (28%) had LSM indicating insignificant fibrosis, and 80 (37%) had advanced fibrosis. Risk of advanced liver fibrosis increased in HBeAg-positive patients older than 35 years of age with an ALT level greater than 0.5 x ULN."}
{"id": "19022517", "title": "Can imaging modalities diagnose and stage hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis accurately?", "content": "Can imaging modalities diagnose and stage hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis accurately? The accurate diagnosis and staging of hepatic fibrosis is crucial for prognosis and treatment of liver disease. The current gold standard, liver biopsy, cannot be used for population-based screening, and has well known drawbacks if used for monitoring of disease progression or treatment success. Our objective was to assess performance and promise of radiologic modalities and techniques as alternative, noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis. A systematic review was conducted. Six hundred twenty-eight studies were identified via electronic search. One hundred fifty-three papers were reviewed. Most described techniques that could differentiate between cirrhosis or severe fibrosis and normal liver. Accurate staging of fibrosis or diagnosis of mild fibrosis was often not achievable. Ultrasonography is the most common modality used in the diagnosis and staging of hepatic fibrosis. Elastographic measurements, either ultrasonography-based or magnetic resonance-based, and magnetic resonance diffusion weighted imaging, show the most promise for accurate staging of hepatic fibrosis. Most currently available imaging techniques can detect cirrhosis or significant fibrosis reasonably accurately. However, to date only magnetic resonance elastography has been able to stage fibrosis or diagnose mild disease. Utrasonographic elastography and magnetic resonance diffusion weighted appear next most promising."}
{"id": "19019481", "title": "Towards the non-invasive diagnosis of cirrhosis: the nuts-cirrhosis connection.", "content": "Towards the non-invasive diagnosis of cirrhosis: the nuts-cirrhosis connection."}
{"id": "19017551", "title": "Liver biopsy: the best, not the gold standard.", "content": "Liver biopsy: the best, not the gold standard."}
{"id": "19013661", "title": "Early detection in routine clinical practice of cirrhosis and oesophageal varices in chronic hepatitis C: comparison of transient elastography (FibroScan) with standard laboratory tests and non-invasive scores.", "content": "Early detection in routine clinical practice of cirrhosis and oesophageal varices in chronic hepatitis C: comparison of transient elastography (FibroScan) with standard laboratory tests and non-invasive scores. To assess prospectively the accuracy of transient elastography (TE, FibroScan) for the detection of cirrhosis and oesophageal varices (OV) in chronic hepatitis C (CHC), as compared with currently available non-invasive methods (AST/ALT ratio (AAR), APRI, prothrombin index (PI), platelet count (PC), FibroTest (FT) and Lok index). All tests were performed the day of liver biopsy (LB), taken as reference, in 298 consecutive CHC patients (cirrhosis: 70; Child-Pugh A: 70; OV: 25). TE had the best diagnostic accuracy for detection of cirrhosis (AUROCs: TE 0.96 vs. FT 0.82, Lok and APRI 0.80, PC 0.79, PI 0.73, AAR 0.61, respectively; p < 0.0001). Overall, the percentage of saved LB was: TE (cut-off: 12.5 kPa) 90%, PC 82%, FT 79%, PI 77%, AAR 76%, APRI 70%, and Lok 45%, respectively. At a cut-off of 21.5 kPa, TE predicted the presence of OV with 76% sensitivity and 78% specificity and correctly classified 73% of patients vs. AAR 81%, Lok 77%, FT, PI 70%, PC 69%, and APRI 66%, respectively. TE is currently the most accurate non-invasive method for early detection of cirrhosis in CHC (cut-off: 12.5 kPa), as compared with other available methods, but cannot replace endoscopy for OV screening."}
{"id": "19005758", "title": "Usefulness of FibroScan for detection of early compensated liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Usefulness of FibroScan for detection of early compensated liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B. It is difficult to differentiate early compensated cirrhosis from chronic hepatitis solely by clinical features. The aim of this study was to assess the usefulness of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) for detection of early compensated liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Ninety-one consecutive CHB patients who underwent liver biopsy (LB) and LSM were recruited. All patients did not fulfill the clinical criteria for cirrhosis. The cutoff of LSM for cirrhosis was 10.3 kPa. All patients were divided into either group A (cirrhosis) or group B (CHB) according to LB result. The median LSM values of groups A and B were 11.8 and 7.6 kPa, respectively (P < 0.001). The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of LSM in predicting cirrhosis were 0.59, 0.78, 0.68, and 0.72, respectively. The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROC) of LSM was 0.803, whereas the AUROCs of aspartate to alanine aminotransferase ratio (AAR) and aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI) were 0.488 and 0.723, respectively. LSM showed an acceptable diagnostic accuracy for detecting early compensated cirrhosis in CHB."}
{"id": "18987556", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement in combination with noninvasive markers for the improved diagnosis of B-viral liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement in combination with noninvasive markers for the improved diagnosis of B-viral liver cirrhosis. To investigate the performance of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) in combination with available noninvasive markers in hepatitis B virus-related chronic liver disease. Few noninvasive methods are available for predicting liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Between January 2006 and June 2007, we studied 130 consecutive treatment-naive CHB patients who underwent liver biopsy (LB) and LSM. The aspartate to alanine aminotransferase ratio, age-platelet index (API), aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI), LSM, and their combinations were compared with liver histology. The API, APRI, and LSM, but not the aspartate to alanine aminotransferase ratio, correlated significantly with liver cirrhosis (all P<0.001). The diagnostic accuracy of LSM and API exceed that of the other diagnostic methods for predicting liver cirrhosis (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve=0.840 and 0.818). When LSM was combined with API and APRI, the diagnostic accuracy was improved markedly (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve =0.871, and 0.846). When both LSM and API results were in agreement, LB confirmed them in 89.1% (41/46) of cases for liver cirrhosis. LB could have been avoided in 41 (31.5%) of the 130 patients who were examined for the potential diagnosis of liver cirrhosis. The combination of LSM and API can avoid unnecessary invasive LB procedures in CHB patients."}
{"id": "18832522", "title": "Metabolic syndrome increases the risk of liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Metabolic syndrome increases the risk of liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B. Metabolic syndrome is associated with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and cryptogenic cirrhosis. Whether metabolic syndrome affects the severity of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is unclear. We aimed to study the relationship between metabolic syndrome and the risk of liver cirrhosis in patients with CHB. We prospectively recruited patients with CHB from primary care and hospital clinics for liver stiffness measurement (LSM) with transient elastography to diagnose early cirrhosis. Probable cirrhosis was defined as LSM >or=13.4 kPa. We analysed a subgroup of patients with paired LSM and liver biopsies to validate the accuracy of LSM. 1466 patients had reliable LSM and 134 (9%) patients had adequate liver biopsy. 188 (13%) patients had metabolic syndrome. Histological liver cirrhosis was present in 32/134 (24%) patients. Histological liver cirrhosis was more common among patients who had metabolic syndrome (38%) versus those who did not (11%, p<0.001). The specificity of probable cirrhosis on LSM for histological cirrhosis was 94%. Probable cirrhosis was present in 187 (13%) patients. Metabolic syndrome was more prevalent in patients with probable cirrhosis (24%) than those without cirrhosis (11%, p<0.001). After adjustment for anthropometric, biochemical and virological factors, metabolic syndrome remained an independent factor associated with probable cirrhosis (odds ratio 1.7, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1 to 2.6). The odds ratios of probable cirrhosis were 1.4 (95% CI, 0.9 to 2.3), 2.6 (95% CI, 1.7 to 4.3), 4.1 (95% CI, 2.4 to 7.1), 4.0 (95% CI, 1.9 to 8.4) and 5.5 (95% CI, 1.8 to 16.7) in patients with one, two, three, four and five components of metabolic syndrome, respectively. Metabolic syndrome is an independent risk factor of liver cirrhosis in CHB."}
{"id": "18673426", "title": "Alanine aminotransferase-based algorithms of liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography (Fibroscan) for liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Alanine aminotransferase-based algorithms of liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography (Fibroscan) for liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B. The aim of this study is to know the liver stiffness measurement (LSM) cutoffs for different stages of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and to investigate the effect of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) on LSM. We prospectively studied consecutive CHB patients undergoing liver biopsy and transient elastography examinations. Diagnostic performance of LSM for different degrees of liver fibrosis was evaluated. One hundred and sixty-one CHB patients with adequate liver biopsy sample size were studied. Area under receiver operating characteristics curves of LSM for no fibrosis (F0 vs F1-4), bridging fibrosis (F0-2 vs F3-4) and liver cirrhosis (F0-3 vs F4) was 0.80 (95% CI: 0.68-0.92), 0.87 (95% CI: 0.82-0.93) and 0.93 (95% CI: 0.89-0.97) respectively. For liver cirrhosis, these optimal cutoff values were 8.4 kPa (98% sensitivity), 9.0 kPa (maximum sum of sensitivity and specificity), 13.4 kPa (94% specificity) and 13.4 kPa (maximum diagnostic accuracy, 85%) respectively. Patients with the same fibrosis staging but higher ALT levels tend to have higher LSM, and the diagnostic performance for low stage fibrosis was most seriously affected when ALT was elevated. Different LSM cutoff values and algorithms were derived for normal and elevated ALT levels. Based on these algorithms, liver biopsy can be avoided in 62% and 58% of patients with normal and elevated ALT respectively. In conclusion, transient elastography is a reasonable noninvasive tool to substitute liver biopsy among the lowest and highest risk patients for the assessment of liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "18672413", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis in transplant recipients with recurrent HCV infection: usefulness of transient elastography.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis in transplant recipients with recurrent HCV infection: usefulness of transient elastography. Progression of recurrent hepatitis C is accelerated in liver transplant recipients, leading to special need of non-invasive validated methods to estimate liver fibrosis. To assess the efficacy of liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography (Fibroscan) and serum parameters in predicting fibrosis stage in HCV-infected transplant recipients. The correlation between liver fibrosis, assessed at liver histology on bioptic specimens obtained for clinical indications, and stiffness or clinico-serological indexes (Benlloch, APRI, Forns, Fibrotest and Doppler resistance index), was investigated in transplant recipients with recurrence of HCV chronic hepatitis. A total of 56 patients (of which 36 with all clinico-serological indexes), presenting with the following METAVIR fibrosis stage F1=38, F2=9, F3=8, F4=1, were enrolled in the study population. Differences between fibrosis stages were calculated by non-parametric analysis. The best cut-off for identifying significant fibrosis (F2-F4) was assessed by ROC curve analysis. Stiffness (median and range) was 7.7 KPa (range 4.2-13.9) in F1 and 17.0KPa (range 6.8-36.3) in >or=F2 (p<0.001). A stiffness cut-off of 10.1 KPa revealed 94% Sensitivity, 89% Specificity, 81% PPV and 94% NPV in differentiating F1 from F2-F4. The area under the receiver operator curve in the assessment of fibrosis was significantly higher for Liver stiffness (AUROC 0.943) than for any of the other non-invasive indexes (AUROCs ranging 0.591-0.815). Transient elastography of the liver provides good accuracy in identifying patients with significant fibrosis and performs better than non-invasive indexes based on clinico-serological parameters in transplant recipients."}
{"id": "18637064", "title": "Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis by stiffness measurement in patients with chronic hepatitis B.", "content": "Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis by stiffness measurement in patients with chronic hepatitis B. The need for new non-invasive tools to assess liver fibrosis in chronic liver diseases has been largely advocated. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography (FibroScan), Echosens) has been shown to be correlated to liver fibrosis in various chronic liver diseases. This study aims to assess its diagnosis accuracy in patients with chronic hepatitis B. We prospectively enrolled 202 patients with chronic hepatitis B in a multicentre study. Patients underwent liver biopsy (LB) and LSM. METAVIR and Ishak liver fibrosis stages were assessed by two pathologists. LSM or LB was considered unreliable in 29 patients. Statistical analysis was conducted in 173 patients. LSM was significantly (P<0.001) correlated with METAVIR (r=0.65) and Ishak fibrosis stage (0.65). The area under receiver-operating characteristic curves were 0.81 (95% confidence intervals, 0.73-0.86) for F>/=2, 0.93 (0.88-0.96) for F>/=3 and 0.93 (0.82-0.98) for F=4. Optimal LSM cut-off values were 7.2 and 11.0 kPa for F>/=2 and F=4, respectively, by maximizing the sum D of sensitivity and specificity, and 7.2 and 18.2 kPa by maximizing the diagnosis accuracy. In conclusion, LSM appears to be reliable for detection of significant fibrosis or cirrhosis in HBV patients and cut-off values are only slightly different from those observed in HCV patients."}
{"id": "19195629", "title": "Non-invasive diagnosis of steatosis and fibrosis.", "content": "Non-invasive diagnosis of steatosis and fibrosis. The prognosis and management of liver disease greatly depends on the amount of liver fibrosis. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), ranging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is emerging as a major cause of liver disease in Western countries because of the increasing prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes. A key issue in patients with NAFLD is the differentiation of NASH from simple steatosis. It is particularly important to identify NASH patients as they are at greatest risk of developing complications such as cirrhosis, liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. The limitations of liver biopsy (invasive procedure, sampling errors, interobserver variability and non-dynamic fibrosis evaluation) have stimulated the search for non-invasive approaches for the assessment of steatosis and liver fibrosis in patients with NAFLD. A variety of methods, including serum markers, imaging techniques such as ultrasound, CT, MRI and measurement of liver stiffness by transient elastography, have been proposed for the non-invasive assessment of steatosis and hepatic fibrosis. This review discusses the advantages and limitations of these different methods in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19124923", "title": "Fibroscan and FibroTest/FibroMax to assess liver fibrosis/cirrhosis in patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection in Georgia.", "content": "Fibroscan and FibroTest/FibroMax to assess liver fibrosis/cirrhosis in patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection in Georgia. Although, liver biopsy is the gold standard in assessment of the degree of liver damage, the method has some limitations. For this reason, assessment of liver damage using non-invasive methods is currently an important topic in hepatology. The aim of the study was to evaluate liver fibrosis/cirrhosis using Transient Elastography and FibroTest/FibroMax in patients with chronic HCV and HBV infection in Georgia and to compare Fibroscan and FibroTest/FibroMax results. 252 patients were included in the study, among them 185 with chronic HCV infection and 67 with chronic HBV infection. These patients were investigated at the Georgian-French Joint Hepatology Clinic \"Hepa\", from December 2007 to November 2008. In patients with chronic HCV or HBV infection Fibroscan and Fibrotest/FibroMax results were correlated in 127 (68.6%) and 45 (67.2%) cases, respectively. Discordance in one degree of fibrosis stage was found in 36 (19.5%) patients with chronic HCV infection and in 14 (20.9%) patients with chronic HBV infection. Discordance in more then one degree of fibrosis stage was found in 22 (11.9%) and 8 (11.9%) cases. In patients with Fibroscan and Fibrotest/FibroMax concordant results liver biopsy might be avoided. Fibroscan and Fibrotest/Max appear to be very valuable methods for detecting early stages of fibrosis among patients with chronic HCV and HBV infection, allowing to avoid the progression of liver damage, as well as end-stage liver disease. These methods are easy to perform and therefore allows regular follow-up of the course of LF."}
{"id": "19124915", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis by transient elastography among patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection in Georgia.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis by transient elastography among patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection in Georgia. The aim of the study was to evaluate liver fibrosis (LF) and cirrhosis using Transient elastography (TE) using Fibroscan in patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection. The device evaluates LF by measurement of liver stiffness (LS). 525 patients with chronic HCV infection and 105 patients with chronic HBV infection were included in the study. These patients were investigated at the Georgian-French joint hepatology clinic \"Hepa\" from November 2007, till November 2008. Among investigated HBV infected 105 patients 65 (61.9%) had no fibrosis (LS<5.5 kpa), 23 (21.9%) had mild fibrosis (LS-5.5-8.0 kpa), 9 (8.6%) had severe fibrosis (LS-8.0-14.0 kpa) and 8 (7.6%) had liver cirrhosis (LS>14.0 kpa). Among investigated HCV infected 525 patients 200 (38.1%) had no fibrosis (LS<5.5 kpa), 139 (26.5%) patients had mild fibrosis (LS-5.5-8.0 kpa), 87 (16.5%) patients had severe fibrosis (LS-8.0-14.0 kpa) and 99 (18.9%) patients had liver cirrhosis. It is concluded that transient elastography (TE) using Fibroscan is simple, non-invasive, reliable and easily reproducible method for assessing liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection. TE is characterized with an excellent accuracy. TE results are well correlated with the clinical signs as well as with the results of laboratory and instrumental investigations. Fibrosis stages by Metavir measured using Fibroscan well corresponds with the liver biopsy results. Considering the high prevalence of fibrosis and cirrhosis among patients with chronic HBV and HCV infection, TE is a very valuable method for detecting early stages of fibrosis allowing to avoid the progression of liver damage, as well as end-stage liver disease. TE is easy to perform and therefore allows regular follow-up of the course of LF."}
{"id": "19104699", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in clinical practice.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography in clinical practice. The AIM of our study was to evaluate the results of transient elastography assessment of liver stiffness (LS) in various categories of patients. We performed transient elastography in 986 patients. We evaluated: the percentage of cases in which valid measurements could be obtained; the values of LS in 40 patients with no history of chronic liver disease (\"normal\" patients); 44 inactive HBsAg carriers; 173 patients with proven liver cirrhosis; and the correlation between liver biopsy results and LS in 93 patients with chronic HCV hepatitis. We obtained valid measurements of LS in 94.6% of the 986 cases. Male gender, younger age and low BMI were positive predictive factors for obtaining valid measurements. The mean values of LS were: 5.2+/-1.3 kPa in \"normal\" patients, 5.8+/-2.6 kPa in inactive HBsAg carriers, 37.2+/-20.9 kPa in patients with liver cirrhosis. In patients with chronic HCV hepatitis, we found that the mean value of LS in those with METAVIR F>=2 was 8.5+/-4.2 kPa, higher than in those with F<2: 5.3+/-1.4 kPa (p=0.0017). In patients with F>=3, the mean value of LS was 11.1+/-4.3 kPa, significantly higher than in patients with F<3: 6.1+/-2.5 kPa (p<0.0001). Liver stiffness, as a marker of fibrosis, can be evaluated by means of transient elastography in a great majority of patients. It is a useful method for the exclusion of significant liver fibrosis and for predicting liver cirrhosis. As compared to liver biopsy, transient elastography can discern significant fibrosis from no or mild fibrosis."}
{"id": "19086958", "title": "Evaluation of alanine transaminase and hepatitis B virus DNA to predict liver cirrhosis in hepatitis B e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B using transient elastography.", "content": "Evaluation of alanine transaminase and hepatitis B virus DNA to predict liver cirrhosis in hepatitis B e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B using transient elastography. We aimed to investigate the relationship between serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA and alanine transaminase (ALT) levels and the risk of cirrhosis in a large cohort of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients based on transient elastography. We prospectively studied treatment-naive HBeAg-negative patients recruited based on territory-wide referrals. We defined possible cirrhosis and probable cirrhosis with two different cutoffs according to the results from a subgroup of patients with histologic proof. One thousand one hundred ninety-seven patients with successful liver stiffness measurement (LSM) were studied. In the subgroup of 100 patients with liver biopsy, LSM of > or =8.4 kiloPascal (kPa) had a sensitivity of 90% and LSM of > or =13.4 kPa had a specificity of 94% for liver cirrhosis. Possible and probable cirrhosis were defined as a LSM value > or =8.4 kPa and > or =13.4 kPa, and were present in 31% and 11% of the patients, respectively. The risk of cirrhosis was significantly increased when ALT level was >0.5x upper limit of normal (ULN) or serum HBV DNA >4 log(10) copies/mL. Among patients who have ALT < or =0.5 x ULN and HBV DNA < or =4 log(10) copies/mL, 10% (26/264) and 3% (7/264) had possible and probable cirrhosis respectively, which were significantly lower when compared with 34% (329/887, P < 0.001) and 14% (125/887, P < 0.001) of those who had higher ALT and HBV DNA levels. Liver cirrhosis was common among HBeAg-negative CHB patients. Patients with ALT levels >0.5 x ULN and/or serum HBV DNA >4 log(10) copies/mL have higher risk of cirrhosis and need further assessment for antiviral therapy."}
{"id": "19072402", "title": "Assessing liver fibrosis.", "content": "Assessing liver fibrosis. Prognosis and management of chronic liver diseases greatly depend on the amount and progression of liver fibrosis. Although liver biopsy is still considered as the gold standard to evaluate fibrosis in the liver, it is an invasive procedure, with rare but potentially life-threatening complications, and is prone to sampling errors. These limitations have stimulated the search for new noninvasive approaches. A number of methods, including serum indices and the measurement of liver stiffness using transient elastography, have been proposed for the noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis, mainly in patients with chronic hepatitis C. It can be anticipated that these noninvasive methods will become an important tool in clinical practice in the near future. This review is aimed at discussing the advantages and limits of these methods and the perspectives for their rationale for use in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19030204", "title": "Comparison of the liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography with the liver biopsy.", "content": "Comparison of the liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography with the liver biopsy. To compare the liver stiffness (LS) measurement by transient elastography (TE) to the liver biopsy (LB)-considered the \"gold standard\" in the evaluation of patients with chronic hepatitis C. During a period of 12 mo, we evaluated 199 consecutive patients with chronic hepatitis due to hepatitis C virus (HCV), in which LB and LS assessments (by means of TE) were performed during the same session. Out of 199 patients, a valid measurement of the LS could not be obtained in 8. The mean value of LS in the cohort of 191 valid measurements was 8.45 +/- 4.96 kPa, ranging from 2.3 to 38 kPa. The mean value of LS in patients with significant fibrosis at biopsy (161 patients with F >= 2 according to Metavir) was 9.02 +/- 5.15 kPa, significantly higher than in patients with no or mild fibrosis (30 patients with F < 2 Metavir): 5.39 +/- 1.81 kPa (P < 0.0001). For a cut-off value of 6.8 kPa, the LS had a PPV of 98%, a NPV of 30.1%, a sensitivity of 59.6% and a specificity of 93.3% for the presence of significant fibrosis (at least F2 Metavir), with a diagnostic performance of 77.3% (AUROC 0.773). Using this cut-off value, we reached the best discrimination between absence of fibrosis/mild fibrosis (F < 2 Metavir) and the presence of moderate to severe fibrosis (F >= 2 Metavir). In patients with chronic hepatitis due to HCV, a cut-off value of 6.8 kPa measured by TE can differentiate between significant fibrosis and absent or mild fibrosis, with a PPV of 98%, a NPV of 30.1%, a sensitivity of 59.6%, a specificity of 93.3%, and a diagnostic performance of 77.3%."}
{"id": "18995217", "title": "Reproducibility of liver stiffness measurement by ultrasonographic elastometry.", "content": "Reproducibility of liver stiffness measurement by ultrasonographic elastometry. Fibroscan is a noninvasive device that assesses liver fibrosis by liver stiffness evaluation (LSE) with ultrasonographic elastometry. We evaluated LSE reproducibility and its influencing factors. LSE was performed by 4 experienced physicians (>100 LSEs) in 46 patients with chronic liver disease at 4 different anatomic sites. Additional LSEs were performed for ancillary aims, so that 534 LSEs were available. Overall interobserver agreement for LSE results was considered as excellent, with intraclass coefficient correlation (Ric) of 0.93. Low LSE level, nonrecommended sites, LSE interquartile range >25%, and body mass index > or =25 independently decreased agreement. Thus, agreement was fair (Ric = 0.53) for LSE <9 kilopascals and excellent (Ric = 0.90) beyond. The best measurement site for LSE reproducibility was the median axillary line on the first intercostal space under the liver dullness upper limit, with the patient lying in dorsal decubitus. When LSE results were categorized into fibrosis Metavir stages, interobserver discordance was noticed in about 25% of the cases and was the highest for F2 and F3 stages and the lowest for F4. Intraobserver (Ric = 0.94), intersite (Ric = 0.92-0.98), and interequipment (Ric = 0.92) agreements for LSE results were excellent. Preliminary standard ultrasonography or probe pressure changes did not improve interobserver agreement. The best measurement site for LSE is the one generally used for liver biopsy. Reproducibility of LSE is globally excellent but is fair in patient with low liver stiffness. The fibrosis diagnosis by ultrasonographic elastometry in low stages or categorized into fibrosis Metavir stages must be interpreted with caution."}
{"id": "18985805", "title": "Liver stiffness in the hepatitis B virus carrier: a non-invasive marker of liver disease influenced by the pattern of transaminases.", "content": "Liver stiffness in the hepatitis B virus carrier: a non-invasive marker of liver disease influenced by the pattern of transaminases. To investigate the usefulness of transient elastography by Fibroscan (FS), a rapid non-invasive technique to evaluate liver fibrosis, in the management of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) carriers. In 297 consecutive HBV carriers, we studied the correlation between liver stiffness (LS), stage of liver disease and other factors potentially influencing FS measurements. In 87 chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients, we monitored the FS variations according to the spontaneous or treatment-induced variations of biochemical activity during follow-up. FS values were 12.3 +/- 3.3 kPa in acute hepatitis, 10.3 +/- 8.8 kPa in chronic hepatitis, 4.3 +/- 1.0 kPa in inactive carriers and 4.6 +/- 1.2 kPa in blood donors. We identified the cut-offs of 7.5 and 11.8 kPa for the diagnosis of fibrosis >or= S3 and cirrhosis respectively, showing 93.9% and 86.5% sensitivity, 88.5% and 96.3% specificity, 76.7% and 86.7% positive predictive value (PPV), 97.3% and 96.3% negative predictive value (NPV) and 90.1% and 94.2% diagnostic accuracy. At multivariate analysis in 171 untreated carriers, fibrosis stage (t = 13.187, P < 0.001), active vs inactive HBV infection (t = 6.437, P < 0.001), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (t = 4.740, P < 0.001) and HBV-DNA levels (t = or-2.046, P = 0.042) were independently associated with FS. Necroinflammation score (t = 2.158, > 10/18 vs <or= 10/18, P = 0.035) and ALT levels (t = 3.566, P = 0.001) were independently associated with LS in 83 untreated patients without cirrhosis and long-term biochemical remission (t = 4.662, P < 0.001) in 80 treated patients. During FS monitoring (mean follow-up 19.9 +/- 7.1 mo) FS values paralleled those of ALT in patients with hepatitis exacerbation (with 1.2 to 4.4-fold increases in CHB patients) and showed a progressive decrease during antiviral therapy. FS is a non-invasive tool to monitor liver disease in chronic HBV carriers, provided that the pattern of biochemical activity is taken into account. In the inactive carrier, it identifies non-HBV-related causes of liver damage and transient reactivations. In CHB patients, it may warrant a more appropriate timing of control liver biopsies."}
{"id": "18973849", "title": "Combining non-invasive methods for assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Combining non-invasive methods for assessment of liver fibrosis. Non-invasive markers of liver fibrosis, including biochemical scores using simple biochemical parameters and transient elastography (TE), have been developed over the past decade to either replace or reduce the need for liver biopsy (LB) in the assessment of liver fibrosis. Although their diagnostic accuracy in liver fibrosis is promising, around 20% of patients are likely to be misclassified if these tests or LB are used alone. However, using a combination of several biochemical scores (Fibropaca algorithm, Leroy algorithm) or one biochemical score with TE (Bordeaux algorithm) will increase diagnostic accuracy for fibrosis and reduce the need for LB. Stepwise combination algorithms of non-invasive scores (SAFE biopsy) also improve the diagnostic performance in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) compared with the use of a single non-invasive score. Other sequential stepwise algorithms have been developed in CHC with similar performance results. Comparisons of different combinations of non-invasive methods indicate that the SAFE biopsy, Fibropaca algorithm and Bordeaux algorithm are excellent and comparable in the non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis in HCV patients, and will markedly reduce the need for LB. They may also be useful in clinical practice and particularly for large-scale screening of HCV patients."}
{"id": "18956295", "title": "Diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: invasive versus noninvasive.", "content": "Diagnosis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: invasive versus noninvasive. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease in the United States and many other parts of the world. Its prevalence continues to rise-currently affecting approximately 20 to 30% of adults and 10% of children in the United States. NAFLD represents a wide spectrum of conditions ranging from fatty liver, which in general follows a benign nonprogressive clinical course, to steatohepatitis or NASH, a more serious form of NAFLD that may progress to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. Although currently a combination of noninvasive clinically available laboratory and imaging tests may help in the diagnostic evaluation of a patient with suspected NAFLD, a liver biopsy remains the only reliable way to precisely diagnose NASH and establish the severity of liver injury and presence of fibrosis. It also provides important information regarding prognosis as well as response to therapeutic interventions. However, a liver biopsy is an invasive and costly procedure, which is poorly suited as a diagnostic test for a condition that may affect about one-third of the U.S. population. This review provides a concise overview of the role of liver biopsy versus noninvasive diagnostic tools for the differentiation of fatty liver from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis as well as for the determination of presence and extent of fibrosis. In particular, this review focuses on the methods currently available in daily clinical practice in hepatology and touches briefly on potential future markers under investigation."}
{"id": "18930329", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis using transient elastography in patients with alcoholic liver disease.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis using transient elastography in patients with alcoholic liver disease. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) for the diagnosis of extensive fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with alcoholic liver disease (ALD). One hundred and seventy-four patients with ALD were enrolled in four liver units and underwent concomitant liver biopsy and LSM. Fibrosis was assessed using the Brunt et al. and the Chevallier et al. scoring systems. Steatosis and histological alcoholic hepatitis (HAH) were quoted in classes. Twenty-seven patients had inadequate biopsy or LSM. Distribution in 147 patients according to the Brunt score (median LSM) was: F1: n=13 (5.7kPa); F2: n=24 (8.3kPa); F3: n=31 (17.5kPa) and F4: n=79 (40.9kPa) (P<0.0001). LSM was correlated with the amount of fibrosis according to the Chevallier score (r=0.70, P<0.0001). LSM was correlated to fibrosis stage (tau beta, 0.53; P<0.0001) and HAH (tau beta, 0.30; P<0.0001). In multivariate analysis, fibrosis was the only parameter correlated with LSM. The areas under the ROC curve were 0.94 and 0.87 for the diagnosis of extensive fibrosis (Brunt et al. score > or =3) and cirrhosis, respectively (threshold-values: 12.9 and 22.6kPa). LSM accurately assesses extensive fibrosis and cirrhosis in alcoholic patients."}
{"id": "18818788", "title": "Comparison of liver biopsy and transient elastography based on clinical relevance.", "content": "Comparison of liver biopsy and transient elastography based on clinical relevance. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) by transient elastography has recently been validated for the evaluation of liver fibrosis in chronic liver diseases. The present study focused on cases in which liver biopsy and LSM were discordant. Three hundred eighty-six patients with chronic hepatitis C who underwent a liver biopsy between December 2004 and April 2007 were studied. First, the optimal cut-off value of LSM was selected for the determination of cirrhosis based on the receiver operating characteristic curve. Then, the cases in which liver histology and evaluation by LSM were discordant were selected. Laboratory test results such as serum total bilirubin concentration, prothrombin activity, albumin concentration, platelet count and the aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index, together with the presence of esophageal varices, were analyzed. The optimal cut-off value was chosen to be 15.9 kPa for cirrhosis (fibrosis stage [F] 4) determination to maximize the sum of sensitivity (78.9%) and specificity (81.0%). There were 78 discordant cases: 51 patients showed an LSM of 15.9 kPa or higher and a fibrosis stage of F1 to F3 (high LSM group), and 27 patients had an LSM lower than 15.9 kPa and a fibrosis stage of F4 (low LSM group). Esophageal varices were seen in 11 patients in the high LSM group (n=51) and in no patients in the low LSM group (n=27) (P=0.0012). The aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index was significantly higher in the high LSM group (1.49 versus 0.89, P=0.019). Other parameters did not differ significantly. However, platelet count, prothrombin activity and albumin concentration tended to be lower in the high LSM group. Patients with a high LSM need proper attention for cirrhosis, even if liver biopsy does not reveal cirrhosis."}
{"id": "18807134", "title": "Transient elastography for measurement of liver stiffness measurement can detect early significant hepatic fibrosis in Japanese patients with viral and nonviral liver diseases.", "content": "Transient elastography for measurement of liver stiffness measurement can detect early significant hepatic fibrosis in Japanese patients with viral and nonviral liver diseases. Many studies have reported the efficiency of transient elastography, a noninvasive, reproducible, and reliable method for predicting liver fibrosis, in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and B (CHB), but there are few reports about nonviral chronic liver disease (CLD) such as primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NAFLD), and autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). We therefore compared the efficiency of transient elastography between CHC and nonviral CLD. We assessed the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using Fibroscan, and compared these values with those of hyaluronic acid, type 4 collagen, platelet count, prothrombin index, and AST/platelet ratio index (APRI) as indices for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in 114 patients with a variety of chronic liver diseases: CHC (n = 51), CHB (n = 11), NAFLD (n = 17), PBC (n = 20), and AIH (n = 15). The histology was assessed according to the METAVIR score by two pathologists. The number of fibrosis stage (F0/1/2/3/4) with CHC was 9/15/12/6/10, and that with nonviral CLD was 10/21/11/4/6, respectively. The ability, assessed by area under receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve, to predict liver fibrosis F >or= 2 for LSM, HA, type 4 collagen, platelet count, prothrombin index, and APRI, was 0.92, 0.81, 0.87, 0.85, 0.85, and 0.92 in CHC patients, respectively; and 0.88, 0.72, 0.81, 0.67, 0.81, and 0.77 in nonviral CLD patients, respectively. In patients with nonviral CLD, LSM was most helpful in predicting significant fibrosis (F >or= 2). Transient elastography is a reliable method for predicting significant liver fibrosis, not only in CHC patients but also in nonviral CLD patients."}
{"id": "18761707", "title": "Systematic review: hepatic fibrosis - regression with therapy.", "content": "Systematic review: hepatic fibrosis - regression with therapy. Hepatic fibrosis occurs in response to chronic liver injury, regardless of the cause. An impressive amount of knowledge concerning the pathogenesis and treatment of liver fibrosis has emerged over the past few years. The hallmark of this event is the activation of the hepatic stellate cell. The latter event causes accumulation of extracellular matrix and formation of scar, leading to deterioration in hepatic function. To assess chronic liver injury, many invasive and non-invasive methods have been suggested. Although transient elastography, image analysis of fractal geometry and fibrotest with actitest have been used in clinical practice, liver biopsy remains the recommended choice, especially when histological staging of fibrosis or response to treatment is needed. The recent advances in anti-viral therapy have resulted in many reports on fibrosis and even on cirrhosis regression, especially early and in young people. A number of new agents have been suggested for the treatment of fibrosis, with promising results in animals; however, their efficacy in humans remains to be elucidated. The investigation of heterogeneity and plasticity of hepatic stellate cells is a topic of scientific interest and may result in improvements in patient management."}
{"id": "18705692", "title": "Assessment of asymptomatic liver fibrosis in alcoholic patients using fibroscan: prospective comparison with seven non-invasive laboratory tests.", "content": "Assessment of asymptomatic liver fibrosis in alcoholic patients using fibroscan: prospective comparison with seven non-invasive laboratory tests. Systematic screening for liver fibrosis in heavy-drinking patients is a challenge. Aims To assess Fibroscan for non-invasive diagnosis of asymptomatic liver fibrosis in alcohol abuse patients, to determine diagnostic liver stiffness cut-off values and to compare performance of Fibroscan with seven non-invasive laboratory tests. One hundred and three alcoholic patients were studied. Liver fibrosis was staged by METAVIR system. Fibroscan, Fibrotest, Fibrometer, Hepascore, APRI, PGA, PGAA and hyaluronic acid tests were performed. Liver stiffness cut-offs were determined using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Liver stiffness was correlated with fibrosis (r = 0.72, P < 0.014), with median at 5.7, 6.3, 8.4, 15 and 47.3 kPa for F0 (n = 8), F1 (n = 18), F2 (n = 24), F3 (n = 20) and F4 (n = 33) stage fibrosis respectively. For Fibroscan, areas under ROC curves (AUROCs) were 0.84 (95% CI: 0.73-0.95) (F > or = 1), 0.91 (0.85-0.98) (F > or = 2), 0.90 (0.82-0.97) (F > or = 3) and 0.92 (0.87-0.98) (F = 4), yielding diagnostic stiffness cut-offs of 5.9 (F > or = 1), 7.8 (F > or = 2), 11 (F > or = 3) and 19.5 (F4) kPa. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV were 80%, 90.5%, 93% and 70% for F > or = 2, and 85.7%, 84.2%, 68.6% and 87.9% for F = 4. Performance of Fibroscan was higher than seven laboratory tests, for which AUROCs ranged from 0.66 to 0.77 (F > or = 1), from 0.54 to 0.82 (F > or = 2), from 0.43 to 0.88 (F > or = 3) and from 0.56 to 0.89 (F = 4), with significant difference only vs. APRI (P < 0.001) and Hepascore (P = 0.04). Combining Fibroscan with each tests did not improve performance. Fibroscan is effective to assess liver fibrosis in alcoholic patients. Instant screening of liver fibrosis in heavy drinkers is feasible without liver biopsy."}
{"id": "18691352", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement as a predictive tool of clinically significant portal hypertension in patients with compensated hepatitis C virus or alcohol-related cirrhosis.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement as a predictive tool of clinically significant portal hypertension in patients with compensated hepatitis C virus or alcohol-related cirrhosis. Hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) is the gold standard for assessing the presence and the severity of portal hypertension (PHT). Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) is a non-invasive method for liver fibrosis assessment. To assess the relationship between LSM and HVPG in patients with compensated cirrhosis related to hepatitis C virus (HCV) or alcohol and to define the performance and the best cut-off of LSM for the diagnosis of PHT in these patients. Between January 2004 and September 2006, we studied all the consecutive patients with compensated HCV or alcohol-related-cirrhosis referred for transjugular liver biopsy with HVPG measurement and LSM performed the same day. Ninety-two patients were eligible, 44 had HCV related-cirrhosis and 48 alcoholic cirrhosis. LSM was positively correlated to HVPG in both groups. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the diagnosis of significant PHT was 0.76 +/- 0.07 in HCV patients (best cut-off at 20.5 kPa) and 0.94 +/- 0.03 (best cut-off at 34.9 kPa) in alcoholic patients. Liver stiffness measurement and HVPG were significantly correlated in patients with compensated cirrhosis because of HCV infection or alcohol. LSM could predict significant PHT in both these groups of patients with a higher cut-off and a better performance in alcoholic patients."}
{"id": "18675186", "title": "[Non-invasive evaluation of liver fibrosis in hepatitis C].", "content": "[Non-invasive evaluation of liver fibrosis in hepatitis C]. In 2007, the < Haute Autorit\u00e9 de Sant\u00e9 > recommended FibroScan, FibroTest or liver biopsy for the initial diagnosis of fibrosis in patients with hepatitis C without co morbidities. These methods have to be interpreted according to the clinical situation, keeping in mind negative and positive false results. For FibroTest, hemolysis, Gilbert syndrome or acute inflammation can modify the result. Pre-analytical and analytical conditions of FibroTest have to be respected according to manufactory recommendations. For FibroScan, the numbers of measurements, the rate of successful measurements, and the interquartile range have to be correct. In case of suspicious results, FibroTest or FibroScan have to be done again. The liver biopsy, FibroTest, and FibroScan are less relevant for the distinction of two adjacent stages of fibrosis. However, their performances are excellent for the diagnosis of severe fibrosis or cirrhosis compared to moderate fibrosis."}
{"id": "18615357", "title": "Regression of cirrhosis of the liver detected by elastiometry.", "content": "Regression of cirrhosis of the liver detected by elastiometry."}
{"id": "18568136", "title": "Analysis of histopathological changes that influence liver stiffness in chronic hepatitis C. Results from a cohort of 324 patients.", "content": "Analysis of histopathological changes that influence liver stiffness in chronic hepatitis C. Results from a cohort of 324 patients. The current study aims to assess the role of the histological parameters in liver biopsy for explaining the variance of liver stiffness, as well as the performance of transient elastography in quantifying liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. 324 consecutive CHC patients were prospectively included in this study. All of them had positive HCV-RNA in serum and had underwent percutaneous liver biopsy for grading and staging the diseases (METAVIR scoring system). All were referred to liver stiffness measurement 1 day prior to biopsy. Liver stiffness values were strongly correlated with fibrosis (r=0.759, p<0.0005). They also correlated with steatosis (r=0.255, p<0.0005), necroinflammatory activity (r=0.378, p<0.0005) and hepatic iron deposition (r=0.143, p=0.03). The univariate regression analysis demonstrated that fibrosis (sq.R=0.610, p<0.0005), activity (sq.R=0.145, p<0.0005) and steatosis (sq.R=0.037, p=0.002) were correlated with liver stiffness. In multiple regression analysis, all three variables independently influenced liver stiffness: fibrosis (p<0.0005), activity (p=0.039) and steatosis (p=0.025). Together they explained 62.4% of the variance of the liver stiffness. The areas under ROC curve for the diagnosis of fibrosis F > or =1, F > or =2, F > or =3, and F=4 were 0.936, 0.862, 0.910 and 0.938, for the cut-off values of 4.9 kPa, 7.4 kPa, 9.1 kPa and 11.85 kPa respectively. Transient elastography is a useful method for chronic hepatitis C assessment. Fibrosis is the main predictor of liver stiffness, but activity and steatosis also influence liver stiffness."}
{"id": "18566553", "title": "Non invasive assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Non invasive assessment of liver fibrosis. Liver fibrosis is the final common pathway of most chronic liver diseases of various etiologies.The development of fibrosis determines the management policy as well as the prognosis. In recent years it became clear that the fibrotic process is reversible. Therefore early detection of liver fibrosis is critical. At present, liver biopsy is considered the gold standard for the detection of fibrosis. Nevertheless liver biopsy is an invasive procedure limiting both its acceptance by patients, and their compliance for repeated procedures. More over it is a questionable gold standard due to significant sample error and intra and inter observer variability. These limitations have led to the development of noninvasive techniques for assessing the presence and the degree of liver fibrosis, such as biomarkers and transient elastography. The accuracy of these methods as compared to liver biopsy, as well as their use and limitations are reviewed in the article."}
{"id": "18563842", "title": "Accuracy and reproducibility of transient elastography for the diagnosis of fibrosis in pediatric nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.", "content": "Accuracy and reproducibility of transient elastography for the diagnosis of fibrosis in pediatric nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Transient elastography (TE) has received increasing attention as a means to evaluate disease progression in chronic liver disease patients. In this study, we assessed the value of TE for the prediction of fibrosis stage in a cohort of pediatric patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Furthermore, TE interobserver agreement was evaluated. TE was performed in 52 consecutive biopsy-proven nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients (32 males, 20 females, age 13.6 +/- 2.44 years). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curves for the prediction of \"any\" (>or=1), significant (>or=2), or advanced fibrosis (>or=3) were 0.977, 0.992, and 1, respectively. Calculation of multilevel likelihood ratios showed that TE values <5, <7, and <9 kPa, suggest the presence of \"any\" fibrosis, significant fibrosis, and advanced fibrosis, respectively. TE values between 5 and 7 kPa predict a fibrosis stage of 1, but with some degree of uncertainty. TE values between 7 and 9 kPa predict fibrosis stages 1 or 2, but cannot discriminate between these two stages. TE values of at least 9 kPa are associated with the presence of advanced fibrosis. The intraclass correlation coefficient for absolute agreement was 0.961. TE is an accurate and reproducible methodology to identify pediatric subjects without fibrosis or significant fibrosis, or with advanced fibrosis. In patients in which likelihood ratios are not optimal to provide a reliable indication of the disease stage, liver biopsy should be considered when clinically indicated."}
{"id": "18544945", "title": "Noninvasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis using serum fibrotic markers, transient elastography (FibroScan) and real-time tissue elastography.", "content": "Noninvasive evaluation of hepatic fibrosis using serum fibrotic markers, transient elastography (FibroScan) and real-time tissue elastography. The aim of this study was to investigate the accuracy of noninvasive tests, e.g. serum fibrotic markers, transient elastography and real-time tissue elastography, in the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis, and to determine whether they can replace liver biopsy. 119 patients with chronic liver disease were included in this study. Serum fibrotic markers including hyaluronic acid, type IV collagen, type IV collagen 7S domain and type III procollagen-N-peptide were measured. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and platelet counts were also measured to calculate the AST to platelet ratio index (APRI). Liver stiffness was measured using FibroScan and real-time tissue elastography. The fibrotic stage, determined by histopathological diagnosis of a liver biopsy sample, did not correlate as well with serum fibrotic markers although it was useful to diagnose liver cirrhosis. However, the stage of hepatic fibrosis correlated well with liver stiffness measured by FibroScan. FibroScan was also a much better predictor of liver cirrhosis than APRI. Furthermore, the levels of liver strain measured by real-time tissue elastography correlated well with liver stiffness (p < 0.05). Serum fibrotic markers and FibroScan are useful for distinguishing liver cirrhosis (F4) from chronic hepatitis (F1-F3). In addition, real-time tissue elastography is a novel and promising method to determine the stage of hepatic fibrosis."}
{"id": "18544943", "title": "New diagnostic method for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.", "content": "New diagnostic method for liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. Liver fibrosis, i.e. excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins, occurs in most types of chronic liver diseases. The prognosis and management of chronic liver diseases depend on the degree of liver fibrosis. Therefore, the assessment of liver fibrosis provides useful information not only for diagnosis but also for treatment planning. Although liver biopsy is still the gold standard for assessing hepatic fibrosis, it has some technical limitations and risks. Furthermore, the dynamic process of liver fibrosis resulting from progression and regression cannot be quantified by liver biopsy. Therefore, alternative, simple, reliable and noninvasive tests are needed to assess the stage of fibrosis. Several noninvasive direct and indirect serum markers able to predict the presence of significant fibrosis or cirrhosis in patients with chronic liver disease with considerable accuracy have been reported. However, since most of these markers require complicated calculations, clinical application is difficult. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a new method for the evaluation of liver stiffness. The technique is based on changes in tissue elasticity induced by hepatic fibrosis. Liver stiffness measured by transient elastography is a noninvasive, reproducible and reliable method to assess hepatic fibrosis as well as to diagnose liver cirrhosis. Based on accumulating clinical data, clinical applications of elastography will increase in the near future."}
{"id": "18528937", "title": "Why, who and how should perform liver biopsy in chronic liver diseases.", "content": "Why, who and how should perform liver biopsy in chronic liver diseases. Chronic viral hepatitis is a common disease in the general population. During chronic hepatitis, the prognosis and clinical management are highly dependent on the extent of liver fibrosis. The fibrosis evaluation can be performed by FibroTest (using serological markers), by Elastography or FibroScan (a noninvasive percutaneous technique using the elastic properties of the hepatic tissue) and by liver biopsy (LB), considered to be the \"gold standard\". Currently, there are three techniques for performing LB: percutaneous, transjugular and laparoscopic. The percutaneous LB can be performed blind, ultrasound (US) guided or US assisted. There are two main categories of specialists who perform LB: gastroenterologists (hepatologists) and radiologists, and the specialty of the individual who performs the LB determines if the LB is performed under ultrasound guidance or not. There are two types of biopsy needles used for LB: cutting needles (Tru-Cut, Vim-Silverman) and suction needles (Menghini, Klatzkin, Jamshidi). The rate of major complications after percutaneous LB ranges from 0.09% to 2.3%, but the echo-guided percutaneous liver biopsy is a safe method for the diagnosis of chronic diffuse hepatitis (cost-effective as compared to blind biopsy) and the rate of complications seems to be related to the experience of the physician and the type of the needle used (Menghini type needle seems to be safer). Maybe, in a few years we will use non-invasive markers of fibrosis, but at this time, most authorities in the field consider that the LB is useful and necessary for the evaluation of chronic hepatopathies, despite the fact that it is not a perfect test."}
{"id": "18524692", "title": "Screening for liver fibrosis by using a noninvasive biomarker in patients with diabetes.", "content": "Screening for liver fibrosis by using a noninvasive biomarker in patients with diabetes. Patients with diabetes are at risk for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease leading to advanced fibrosis, cirrhosis, and liver cancer. We examined the efficacy of a screening strategy with a noninvasive fibrosis biomarker (FibroTest) in patients with diabetes. We prospectively studied 1131 consecutive patients without a history of liver disease seen for diabetes. The biomarker data were obtained, and patients with presumed advanced fibrosis were reinvestigated by a hepatologist using elastography and, if necessary, ultrasonography, endoscopy, or liver biopsy. The biomarker predicted advanced fibrosis in 63 of 1131 (5.6%) patients. A total of 45 patients was reinvestigated, and advanced fibrosis was confirmed in 32 patients, a 2.8% (32/1131) prevalence of confirmed advanced fibrosis, 5 cases of cirrhosis, and 4 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma. In the population with type 2 diabetes who were 45 years or older, the prevalence of confirmed advanced fibrosis was 4.3% (30/696), and hepatocellular carcinoma was 5.7 of 1000 (4/696). The fibrosis biomarker might be used for the detection of advanced fibrosis in patients with type 2 diabetes."}
{"id": "18504591", "title": "MR elastography of liver fibrosis: preliminary results comparing spin-echo and echo-planar imaging.", "content": "MR elastography of liver fibrosis: preliminary results comparing spin-echo and echo-planar imaging. The purpose of this study was to prospectively compare the performance of magnetic resonance (MR) elastography using echo-planar and spin-echo imaging for staging of hepatic fibrosis. Twenty-four patients who had liver biopsy for suspicion of chronic liver disease had MR elastography performed with both spin-echo and echo-planar sequences. At histology, the fibrosis stage was assessed according to METAVIR. The data acquisition time was about 20 min using spin-echo, and only 2 min using echo-planar imaging. The hepatic signal-to-noise ratios were similar on both images (22.51 +/- 5.37 for spin-echo versus 21.02 +/- 4.76 for echo-planar, p = 0.33). The elasticity measurements and the fibrosis stages were strongly correlated. The Spearman correlation coefficients were r = 0.91 (p < 0.01) with spin-echo and r = 0.84 (p < 0.01) with echo-planar sequences. These correlation coefficients did not differ significantly (p = 0.17). A strong correlation was also observed between spin-echo and echo-planar elasticity (r = 0.83, p < 0.001), without systematic bias. The results of our study showed that echo-planar imaging substantially decreased the data acquisition time of MR elastography, while maintaining the image quality and diagnostic performance for staging of liver fibrosis. This suggests that echo-planar MR elastography could replace spin-echo MR elastography in clinical practice."}
{"id": "18496894", "title": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis using FibroScan and other noninvasive methods in patients with hemochromatosis: a prospective study.", "content": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis using FibroScan and other noninvasive methods in patients with hemochromatosis: a prospective study. The role of hepatic iron overload in the development of hepatic fibrosis in patients with hemochromatosis is well-established. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a new noninvasive, rapid, reproducible bedside method, allowing assessment of liver fibrosis by measuring liver rigidity. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate liver fibrosis with FibroScan and other noninvasive biochemical methods in patients with hemochromatosis (C282Y homozygosity) compared with control patients. From January 2004 through October 2006, all consecutive patients with hemochromatosis were evaluated for liver fibrosis using noninvasive methods (FibroScan and biochemical markers). These patients were compared with patients who had chronic cytolysis and no fibrosis on liver biopsy. One hundred and three consecutive patients (57 cases and 46 controls) were fully investigated. Median FibroScan values were similar in both groups, 5.20 kPa versus 4.9 kPa, respectively. No differences were observed between cases and controls for all biochemical markers. A strong correlation was observed between FibroScan and many biochemical markers, although ferritin levels did not correlate with FibroScan values. The prevalence of patients with FibroScan values greater than 7.1 kPa (cut-off level for significant fibrosis) was 22.8% in patients with hemochromatosis and 0% in the controls (P<0.0001). FibroScan and biochemical markers could be reliable noninvasive methods for detecting liver fibrosis in patients with hemochromatosis. Such patients have high FibroScan values more often than do control patients. Further longitudinal and prospective studies are necessary to confirm these preliminary data."}
{"id": "18494155", "title": "[The liver and methotrexate].", "content": "[The liver and methotrexate]. Methotrexate is proposed for the treatment of inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and Crohn's disease. The liver toxicity of methotrexate has been investigated and prolonged treatment can induce liver fibrosis. Moreover, alcohol consumption, diabetes and obesity are associated with liver fibrosis in patients treated with this drug. Therefore, liver fibrosis associated with methotrexate could be due to associated factors instead of methotrexate itself. Recommendations to monitor and diagnose methotrexate induced liver damage vary depending on the disease. Frequent evaluation of liver fibrosis with liver biopsy is recommended during therapy, especially in patients treated for psoriasis. Noninvasive methods, such as the FibroScan, could be useful for the assessment of liver fibrosis associated with methotrexate and hence, need further evaluation."}
{"id": "18471441", "title": "Magnetic resonance elastography for the noninvasive staging of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Magnetic resonance elastography for the noninvasive staging of liver fibrosis. The purpose of our study was to prospectively compare the success rate and diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance elastography, ultrasound elastography, and aspartate aminotransferase to platelets ratio index (APRI) measurements for the noninvasive staging of fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease. We performed a prospective blind comparison of magnetic resonance elastography, ultrasound elastography, and APRI in a consecutive series of patients who underwent liver biopsy for chronic liver disease in a university-based hospital. Histopathologic staging of liver fibrosis according to the METAVIR scoring system served as the reference. A total of 141 patients were assessed. The technical success rate of magnetic resonance elastography was higher than that of ultrasound elastography (133/141 [94%] vs 118/141 [84%]; P = .016). Magnetic and ultrasound elastography, APRI measurements, and histopathologic analysis of liver biopsy specimens were technically successful in 96 patients. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves of magnetic resonance elasticity (0.994 for F >or= 2; 0.985 for F >or= 3; 0.998 for F = 4) were larger (P < .05) than those of ultrasound elasticity, APRI, and the combination of ultrasound elasticity and APRI (0.837, 0.709, and 0.849 for F >or= 2; 0.906, 0.816, and 0.936 for F >or= 3; 0.930, 0.820, and 0.944 for F = 4, respectively). Magnetic resonance elastography has a higher technical success rate than ultrasound elastography and a better diagnostic accuracy than ultrasound elastography and APRI for staging liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "18456573", "title": "Assessment of fibrosis by transient elastography compared with liver biopsy and morphometry in chronic liver diseases.", "content": "Assessment of fibrosis by transient elastography compared with liver biopsy and morphometry in chronic liver diseases. Liver stiffness measurement (LSM) with transient elastography (Fibroscan) can accurately diagnose advanced liver fibrosis, but its performance in early liver fibrosis is less satisfactory. We aimed to study the diagnostic performance of LSM for histologic bridging fibrosis and cirrhosis in various chronic liver diseases and to investigate the effects of liver fibrosis distribution on LSM. We prospectively studied consecutive patients with chronic liver diseases undergoing liver biopsy and transient elastography examinations. Morphometric analysis was performed to evaluate the distribution of liver fibrosis. One hundred thirty-three patients (50% chronic hepatitis B, 14% chronic hepatitis C, and 24% nonalcoholic fatty liver disease) were studied. Morphometric analysis revealed a higher correlation between LSM and pericellular fibrosis (r = 0.43) than periportal (r = 0.21) or perivenular fibrosis (r = 0.25). Area under receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) of LSM for bridging fibrosis was 0.87 (95% confidence interval, 0.81-0.93) and for cirrhosis was 0.89 (95% confidence interval, 0.83-0.94). Higher LSM was associated with higher serum ALT level. Patients with the same fibrosis staging but higher ALT levels tend to have higher LSM. The area under ROC curve of LSM for cirrhosis was lower among patients who had ALT above the upper limit of normal (0.86) as compared with that of patients with normal ALT levels (0.93, P = .03). Transient elastography can diagnose severe fibrosis because of its good correlation with pericellular fibrosis. Transient elastography might overestimate liver fibrosis when ALT is elevated."}
{"id": "18448567", "title": "Reliability of transient elastography for the diagnosis of advanced fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Reliability of transient elastography for the diagnosis of advanced fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Transient elastography (TE) has received increasing attention as a means to evaluate disease progression in patients with chronic liver disease. To assess the value of TE for predicting the stage of fibrosis. Liver biopsy and TE were performed in 150 consecutive patients with chronic hepatitis C-related hepatitis (92 men and 58 women, age 50.6 (SD 12.5) years on the same day. Necro-inflammatory activity and the degree of steatosis at biopsy were also evaluated. The areas under the curve for the prediction of significant fibrosis (> or = F2), advanced fibrosis (> or = F3) or cirrhosis were 0.91, 0.99 and 0.98, respectively. Calculation of multilevel likelihood ratios showed that values of TE < 6 or > or = 12, < 9 or > or = 12, and < 12 or > or = 18, clearly indicated the absence or presence of significant fibrosis, advanced fibrosis, and cirrhosis, respectively. Intermediate values could not be reliably associated with the absence or presence of the target condition. The presence of inflammation significantly affected TE measurements in patients who did not have cirrhosis (p<0.0001), even after adjusting for the stage of fibrosis. Importantly, TE measurements were not influenced by the degree of steatosis. TE is more suitable for the identification of patients with advanced fibrosis than of those with cirrhosis or significant fibrosis. In patients in whom likelihood ratios are not optimal and do not provide a reliable indication of the disease stage, liver biopsy should be considered when clinically indicated. Necro-inflammatory activity, but not steatosis, strongly and independently influences TE measurement in patients who do not have cirrhosis."}
{"id": "18410556", "title": "Prospective evaluation of transient elastography for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in Asians: comparison with liver biopsy and aspartate transaminase platelet ratio index.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of transient elastography for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in Asians: comparison with liver biopsy and aspartate transaminase platelet ratio index. Transient elastography (TE) is a reliable non-invasive predictor of hepatic fibrosis, but data on TE in Asians are limited. To evaluate prospectively the accuracy of TE for diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in Asians compared with APRI (aspartate transaminase to platelet ratio index). One hundred and twenty consecutive patients who underwent liver biopsy were enrolled. TE (Fibroscan) was performed by two independent operators. Fibrosis was graded by two independent pathologists using the METAVIR classification. Area under receiver operating curves (AUROC) were used to evaluate the accuracy of TE and APRI in diagnosing significant fibrosis (F >or= 2) and cirrhosis (F4). Predominant aetiologies were hepatitis B (48%), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (14%) and hepatitis C (8%). TE was unsuccessful in five patients (4.2%) because of small inter-costal space (three patients), obesity and ascites. There was good correlation between TE and fibrosis (r = 0.606). AUROC for diagnosis of significant fibrosis was 0.856 (95% CI 0.779-0.932) for TE and 0.673 (95% CI 0.568-0.777) for APRI. AUROC for diagnosis of cirrhosis was 0.924 (95% CI 0.857-0.990) for TE and 0.626 (95% CI 0.437-0.815) for APRI. Optimal TE value was 9.0 kPa for diagnosis of significant fibrosis and 16.0 kPa for cirrhosis with specificity/sensitivity/PPV/NPV/accuracy of 82.6%/85.2%/80.9%/86.7%/84.1% and 88.9%/82.7%/32.0%/98.8%/83.2%, respectively. Transient elastography is a reliable predictor of hepatic fibrosis in Asians. Failure of TE in Asians is commonly because of small inter-costal space. TE is superior to APRI for non-invasive diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis."}
{"id": "18397389", "title": "Transient elastography accurately predicts presence of significant portal hypertension in patients with chronic liver disease.", "content": "Transient elastography accurately predicts presence of significant portal hypertension in patients with chronic liver disease. Hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) is a prognostic marker in patients with cirrhosis. Transient elastography measures liver stiffness (LS). To assess the correlation between LS and HVPG and to investigate the performance of transient elastography for the diagnosis of significant portal hypertension (PHT). Liver stiffness was measured by Fibroscan in 150 consecutive patients who underwent a liver biopsy with haemodynamic measurements. Usual clinical and biological data were collected. Significant PHT was defined as a HVPG > or = 10 mmHg. Hepatic venous pressure gradient was found to be > or = 10 mmHg in 76 patients. Cirrhosis was diagnosed in 89 patients. HVPG was found to be correlated with: LS (rho = 0.858; P < 0.001) and inversely correlated with prothrombin index (rho = -0.718; P < 0.001). Regarding significant PHT, AUROC for LS and prothrombin index were 0.945 [0.904-0.987] and 0.892 [0.837-0.947] respectively. The cut-off value of 21 kPa accurately predicted significant PHT in 92% of the 144 patients for whom LS was successful. Liver stiffness measurement is correlated with HVPG and transient elastography identifies patients with significant PHT."}
{"id": "18395077", "title": "Performance of transient elastography for the staging of liver fibrosis: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Performance of transient elastography for the staging of liver fibrosis: a meta-analysis. Transient elastography has been studied in a multitude of liver diseases for the staging of liver fibrosis with variable results. A meta-analysis was performed to assess the overall performance of transient elastography for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis and to analyze factors influencing the diagnostic accuracy. Literature databases and international conference abstracts were searched. Inclusion criteria were as follows: evaluation of transient elastography, liver biopsy as reference, and assessment of the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC). The meta-analysis was performed using the random-effects model for the AUROC, summary receiver operating curve techniques, as well as meta-regression approaches. Fifty studies were included in the analysis. The mean AUROC for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis, severe fibrosis, and cirrhosis were 0.84 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.82-0.86), 0.89 (95% CI, 0.88-0.91), and 0.94 (95% CI, 0.93-0.95), respectively. For the diagnosis of significant fibrosis a significant reduction of heterogeneity of the AUROC was found when differentiating between the underlying liver diseases (P < .001). Other factors influencing the AUROC were the scoring system used and the country in which the study was performed. Age, body mass index, and biopsy quality did not have a significant effect on the AUROC. Transient elastography can be performed with excellent diagnostic accuracy and independent of the underlying liver disease for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. However, for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis, a high variation of the AUROC was found that is dependent on the underlying liver disease."}
{"id": "18389904", "title": "Antiretroviral-associated portal hypertension: a new clinical condition? Prevalence, predictors and outcome.", "content": "Antiretroviral-associated portal hypertension: a new clinical condition? Prevalence, predictors and outcome. Cases of severe unexplained liver disease in HIV-infected individuals have recently been reported and are often associated with exposure to didanosine (ddl) and nodular regenerative hyperplasia. Herein, we examine the clinical outcome following ddl removal. From 3,300 HIV-infected patients attending three clinics since 2004, all who exhibited persistently elevated aminotransferases and/or significant liver fibrosis in the absence of any known cause of liver damage were identified. Thirty-two individuals (prevalence approximately 1%) met the inclusion criteria - all were on antiretroviral therapy. Of these, 84% were male and 68% had acquired HIV through homosexual contact. Liver biopsy was performed in 12, of whom three showed nonspecific advanced liver fibrosis, two nodular regenerative hyperplasia and three showed only periportal fibrosis. On follow up, nine patients developed episodes of hepatic decompensation, mainly as a consequence of portal hypertension; in eight cases (25%) portal thrombosis was diagnosed. No association was found with plasma HIV RNA or CD4+ T-cell count. All patients but three had been exposed to ddl for a median of 44 months; removal of ddl in 27 was followed 12 months later by improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters in 13 (48%) patients. Finally, a trend towards liver fibrosis improvement was recognised using FibroScan. Idiopathic persistent liver enzyme elevations in HIV-infected individuals are often associated with cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. Although this is a relatively rare condition, prolonged exposure to ddl seems to play a pathogenic role and removal of the drug is associated with clinical and laboratory improvements."}
{"id": "18334275", "title": "Non-invasive evaluation of liver fibrosis using transient elastography.", "content": "Non-invasive evaluation of liver fibrosis using transient elastography. Transient elastography (TE, FibroScan) is a novel non-invasive method that has been proposed for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic liver diseases, by measuring liver stiffness. TE is a rapid and user-friendly technique that can be easily performed at the bedside or in the outpatient clinic with immediate results and good reproducibility. Limitations include failure in around 5% of cases, mainly in obese patients. So far, TE has been mostly validated in chronic hepatitis C, with diagnostic performance equivalent to that of serum markers for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis. Combining TE with serum markers increases diagnostic accuracy and as a result, liver biopsy could be avoided for initial assessment in most patients with chronic hepatitis C. This strategy warrants further evaluation in other aetiological types of chronic liver diseases. TE appears to be an excellent tool for early detection of cirrhosis and may have prognostic value in this setting. As TE has excellent patient acceptance it could be useful for monitoring fibrosis progression and regression in the individual case, but more data are awaited for this application. Guidelines are needed for the use of TE in clinical practice."}
{"id": "18282151", "title": "Liver biopsy in patients with haemophilia; in search for a reliable, non-invasive alternative.", "content": "Liver biopsy in patients with haemophilia; in search for a reliable, non-invasive alternative."}
{"id": "18253138", "title": "Technology Insight: noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by biochemical scores and elastography.", "content": "Technology Insight: noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by biochemical scores and elastography. Although histopathological analysis of liver tissue is still the reference standard for the evaluation of disease progression in patients with chronic liver disease, a distinct change in clinical practice is occurring. The tendency to substitute histopathological analysis of liver biopsies with complex, surrogate 'noninvasive' measures of disease progression has grown to such a level that clarification and guidance on their use is needed. This Review provides an overview of the proposed noninvasive diagnostic methodologies and their possible integration with the standard invasive procedures used for the evaluation of disease progression (i.e. liver biopsy and the measurement of portal pressure). A concise analysis of what has been proposed for the differentiation of simple fatty liver from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and its possible fibrogenic evolution is also included. In particular, the Review focuses on the methods easily available as part of daily clinical practice in hepatology--biochemical markers and transient elastography (i.e. liver stiffness measurement)."}
{"id": "18221303", "title": "Liver fibrosis on account of chronic hepatitis C is more severe in HIV-positive than HIV-negative patients despite antiretroviral therapy.", "content": "Liver fibrosis on account of chronic hepatitis C is more severe in HIV-positive than HIV-negative patients despite antiretroviral therapy. The recent availability of non-invasive tools to measure liver fibrosis has allowed examination of its extent and determination of predictors in all patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. On the other hand, most information on hepatic fibrosis in HCV/human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-coinfected patients has been derived from liver biopsies taken before highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was widely available. All consecutive HCV patients with elevated aminotransferases seen during the last 3 years were evaluated and liver fibrosis measured using transient elastography (FibroScan) and biochemical indexes. Patients were split according to their HIV serostatus. A total of 656 (69.6%) HCV-monoinfected and 287 (30.4%) HIV/HCV-coinfected patients were assessed. Mean CD4 count of coinfected patients was 493 cells/muL and 88% were under HAART (mean time, 4.2 +/- 2.4 years). Advanced liver fibrosis or cirrhosis was recognized in 39% of the coinfected and 18% of the monoinfected patients (P < 0.005). A good correlation was found between FibroScan) and biochemical indexes [AST to platelet ratio index (r = 0.405, P < 0.0001), FIB-4 (r = 0.393, P < 0.0001) and Forns (r = 0.407, P < 0.0001)], regardless of the HIV status. In the multivariate analysis, age >45 years, body mass index (BMI) >25 kg/m(2), and HIV infection were independently associated with advanced liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. HIV/HCV-coinfected patients have more advanced liver fibrosis than HCV-monoinfected patients despite the immunologic benefit of HAART."}
{"id": "18218676", "title": "Transient elastography predicts fibrosis progression in patients with recurrent hepatitis C after liver transplantation.", "content": "Transient elastography predicts fibrosis progression in patients with recurrent hepatitis C after liver transplantation. Transient elastography (TE) allows non-invasive evaluation of the severity of liver disease in patients with chronic hepatitis C. This procedure, however, warrants further validation in the setting of liver transplantation (LT), including patients under follow-up for recurrent hepatitis C. Tertiary referral hospital. 95 patients (75 males) transplanted for end-stage liver disease due to hepatitis C virus. Paired liver biopsy (LB) and TE were carried out 6-156 (median, 35) months after LT. 40 patients with recurrent hepatitis C sequentially evaluated 6-21 months apart. Clinical, laboratory and graft histological features influencing TE results. Median TE values were 7.6 kPa in the 90 patients with a successful TE examination, being 5.6 kPa in the 30 patients with Ishak fibrosis score (S) of 0-1, 7.6 kPa in the 38 with S2-3; 16.7 kPa in the 22 with S4-6, (p < 0.0001). Areas under the ROC curves were 0.85 (95% CI, 0.76 to 0.92) for S > or = 3, 0.90 (95% CI, 0.82 to 0.95) for S > or = 4 with 7.9 and 11.9 kPa optimal TE cut-off (81% and 82% sensitivity, 88% and 94% negative predictive value, respectively). Fibrosis, necroinflammatory activity and higher than 200 IU/l gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels independently influenced TE results. During post-LT follow-up, TE results changed in parallel with grading (r = 0.63) and staging (r = 0.71), showing 86% sensitivity and 92% specificity in predicting staging increases. TE accurately predicts fibrosis progression in LT patients with recurrent hepatitis C, suggesting that protocol LB might be avoided in patients with improved or stable TE values during follow-up."}
{"id": "18192914", "title": "Assessment of graft fibrosis by transient elastography in patients with recurrent hepatitis C after living donor liver transplantation.", "content": "Assessment of graft fibrosis by transient elastography in patients with recurrent hepatitis C after living donor liver transplantation. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a simple and noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness and therefore can be a promising tool to evaluate liver fibrosis and avoid liver biopsy. We prospectively assessed the performance of transient elastography in patients with recurrent hepatitis C virus after living donor liver transplantation, in comparison with the surrogate serum markers. Fifty-six patients with recurrent hepatitis C virus after living donor liver transplantation, who underwent both liver biopsy and transient elastography were included in this study. The grade of liver fibrosis (the Scheuer classification) obtained by biopsy was compared to liver stiffness measured by the transient elastography. The fibrosis grades were as follows: F0, n=22; F1, n=13; F2, n=9; F3, n=7; and F4, n=5. Liver stiffness values ranged from 2.9 to 72.0 kPa. The optimal cutoff values were 8.8 kPa for F>or=1, 9.9 kPa for F>or=2, 15.4 kPa for F>or=3, and 26.5 kPa for F>or=4. The area under the receiver operator characteristic curve for the diagnosis of fibrosis (F>or=2) by transient elastography was 0.92, while that by hyaluronic acid, type 4 collagen, alanine aminotransferase, and the aspartate transaminase to platelets ratio index were 0.52, 0.62, 0.64, and 0.70, respectively. These data suggest that transient elastography is a simple, noninvasive and reliable tool to assess liver fibrosis in patients with recurrent hepatitis C virus after living donor liver transplantation."}
{"id": "18184025", "title": "Hepatitis C virus infection in the elderly: epidemiology, natural history and management.", "content": "Hepatitis C virus infection in the elderly: epidemiology, natural history and management. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection frequently occurs in elderly individuals, with a prevalence in individuals aged >60 years of up to approximately 40%. Although progression to cirrhosis is accelerated and occurs more frequently in patients who acquire the infection in old age, this outcome is often not seen because most elderly infected patients acquired HCV when they were young. Data on progression of HCV infection to cirrhosis and eventually to hepatocellular carcinoma are often derived from studies of HCV-infected individuals who present or are referred to hospitals, and which are therefore likely to overestimate the seriousness of the disease; indeed, population-based studies indicate that in many elderly individuals the disease is asymptomatic and runs a fairly benign course. Treatment is based on use of pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin, and is overall less effective and more toxic in the elderly. Therefore, treatment should be carefully considered on an individual basis and proposed only in patients up to the age of 75 years with a significant risk of progression of liver disease, no serious co-morbidities and good life expectancy. All treated patients should be followed long term in order to assess the influence of therapy on the evolution of liver disease (decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma) and survival. It is hoped that liver biopsy, which is still required in order to assess prognosis appropriately, will be replaced in the future by less invasive methods based on combinations of biochemical markers of fibrosis and/or transient elastography, and that newer and less toxic orally administered drugs for HCV infection will become available."}
{"id": "18166342", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis and portal hypertension with transient elastography.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis and portal hypertension with transient elastography. Hepatic fibrogenesis, the \"final\" common result of injury to the liver, is believed to be a critical factor leading to hepatic dysfunction and may be important in the pathogenesis of portal hypertension. Thus, accurate assessment of the degree of fibrosis is important clinically. For many years, examination of hepatic histopathology has been considered to be the \"gold standard\" tool used to assess fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is invasive, and in many instances not favored by patients or physicians. Thus, alternative approaches to measure liver fibrosis would be extremely attractive. To the extent that transient elastography is able to measure \"liver stiffness,\" which is proportional to the degree of liver fibrosis, this technique holds great promise."}
{"id": "18098325", "title": "Transient elastography is unreliable for detection of cirrhosis in patients with acute liver damage.", "content": "Transient elastography is unreliable for detection of cirrhosis in patients with acute liver damage. Transient elastography [FibroScan (FS)] is a rapid, noninvasive, and reproducible method for measuring liver stiffness, which correlates with the degree of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis. Whether FS is useful in the detection of preexisting liver fibrosis/cirrhosis in patients presenting with acute liver damage is unclear. Patients with acute liver damage of different etiologies were analyzed. Liver stiffness was measured during the acute phase of the liver damage and followed up to the end of the acute phase. A total of 20 patients were included in the study. In 15 of the 20 patients, initial liver stiffness values measured by FS during the acute phase of the liver damage were suggestive of liver cirrhosis. However, none of these 15 patients showed any signs of liver cirrhosis in the physical examination, ultrasound examination, or liver histology [performed in 11 of 15 (73%) patients]. A significant difference was observed in the initial bilirubin levels (5.8 +/- 6.5 mg/dL versus 15.7 +/- 11.8 mg/dL; P = 0.042) and age (32.4 +/- 17.5 years versus 49.7 +/- 15.8 years; P = 0.042) between patients with liver stiffness below or above 12.5 kPa. Six patients with initially high liver stiffness were followed up to abatement of the acute hepatitic phase; in all of them, liver stiffness values decreased to values below the cutoff value for liver cirrhosis. Transient elastography frequently yields pathologically high values in patients with acute liver damage and is unsuitable for detecting cirrhosis/fibrosis in these patients."}
{"id": "18083083", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of stiffness in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of stiffness in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Liver fibrosis is the main predictor of the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Transient elastography (FibroScan), which measures liver stiffness, is a novel, noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis. We investigated the usefulness of liver stiffness measurement in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients. A total of 97 nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients. Transient elastography was performed for liver stiffness measurement in 97 nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients. And the relationship between histological parameters and liver stiffness measurement was studied by multivariate analysis. Moreover, we investigated the relationship between liver stiffness measurement and the serum levels of hyaluronic acid and type IV collagen 7s domain. The liver stiffness was well correlated with the stage of liver fibrosis (Kruskal-Wallis test p < 0.0001). The areas under the receiver-operating characteristic curves were 0.927 for > or = F1, 0.865 for > or = F2, 0.904 for > or = F3, 0.991 for > or = F4. Only fibrosis stage was correlated significantly with liver stiffness measurement by multiple regression analysis. Liver stiffness was also strongly correlated with the serum levels of type IV collagen 7s domain (r = 0.525, p < 0.0001) and hyaluronic acid (r = 0.457, p < 0.0001). Our results show a significant correlation between liver stiffness measurement and fibrosis stage in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients, as confirmed by the results of liver biopsy, which remains the gold standard for evaluation of the severity of liver fibrosis in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis."}
{"id": "18081731", "title": "Transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis.", "content": "Transient elastography to assess hepatic fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis. Liver stiffness measurements may have potential for detecting and monitoring hepatic fibrosis in chronic liver disease. To study the detection, quantification and progression of hepatic fibrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis by liver stiffness measurements. Liver stiffness measurements were generated in 80 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis by applying transient elastography; however, as there were 55 with liver biopsy, histological stage (METAVIR) and liver stiffness measurements were compared only in these 55 patients. The efficiency of liver stiffness measurements in predicting stage of fibrosis was determined from the area under receiver operating characteristics curve analysis. Of the 80 patients included, 91, 4% were women and their mean age was 56 +/- 12 (s.d.) years. A significant correlation was found (P < 0.05) between histological fibrosis stage (METAVIR) and liver stiffness measurements. The values obtained from area under receiver operating characteristic curve analysis of liver stiffness measurement data were 0.89 for F > 2 and 0.96 for F = 4. Liver stiffness measurements were 9.0 +/- 5.3 and 7.9 +/- 6.0 kPa for patients followed up more than 5 years and less than 5 years, respectively (P > 0.05). In patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, median values of liver stiffness measurements correlated with histological severity of hepatic fibrosis. Liver stiffness measurements appear to be promising for liver fibrosis detection and quantification, as well as monitoring its progression, in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. The progression rate of hepatic fibrosis in our primary biliary cirrhosis patients appears to be slow."}
{"id": "18081722", "title": "Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in post transfusional iron overload.", "content": "Non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis by transient elastography in post transfusional iron overload. Liver fibrosis, assessed by biopsy, is the main complication of post transfusional liver iron overload. Transient elastography (TE) is a new, non invasive method able to measure liver stiffness (LS) caused by fibrosis. We prospectively evaluated the predictive value of LS measurement for liver fibrosis evaluation in 15 chronically transfused patients and compared these results with the METAVIR histological fibrosis stage from liver biopsies. Mean TE values significantly differed in patients with severe fibrosis (METAVIR F3, F4): 9.1 (+/-3.7 SD) kPa from those with mild or no fibrosis (METAVIR F0, F1, F2): 5.9 (+/-1.8 SD) kPa (P = 0.046). TE value above 6.25 kPa (Se = 80%; Sp = 70%; AUROC = 0.820) identified patients at risk for severe fibrosis (Negative Predictive Value 88%; Positive Predictive Value 57%). Transient elastography appears to be a reliable tool to evaluate liver fibrosis in post-transfusional iron overload."}
{"id": "18159150", "title": "[Liver stiffness measurement for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis].", "content": "[Liver stiffness measurement for the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis]. FibroScan is a new medical device that noninvasively measures liver stiffness. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of the liver stiffness measurement by FibroScan for making the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. We studied 103 patients with chronic viral hepatitis B or C and they underwent FibroScan and liver biopsy between October 2005 and August 2006. Liver fibrosis was staged on a 0-4 scale according to the Korean Society of Pathologists Scoring System. The diagnostic accuracy was assessed by analysis of the receiver operator characteristics (ROC). The liver stiffness was 3.5-57.1 kPa (mean: 11.8, SD: 8.9). The mean value of liver stiffness in each fibrosis stage group (F1, F2, F3 and F4) was 5.8+/-1.8 kPa, 11.3+/-6.8 kPa, 11.8+/-6.0 kPa and 23.4+/-16.5 kPa, respectively. Liver stiffness measured by FibroScan showed reliable correlation with the liver fibrosis stage as confirmed by liver biopsy (r=0.56, p<0.001). The AUROC (95% CI) of > or = F2, > or = F3 and F4 was 0.93 (0.86-0.99), 0.72 (0.62-0.82) and 0.80 (0.67-0.92), respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of 7.5 kPa, which was the cutoff value for > or = F2, was 84% and 90%, respectively. FibroScan is a reliable method for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (> or =F2) and cirrhosis in patients with chronic liver disease. The liver stiffness measurement by FibroScan showed good diagnostic performance for significant fibrosis."}
{"id": "18080057", "title": "Elastography in hepatology.", "content": "Elastography in hepatology. A common characteristic of all chronic liver diseases is the occurrence and progression of fibrosis toward cirrhosis. Consequently, liver fibrosis assessment plays an important role in hepatology. Besides its importance for prognosis, determining the level of fibrosis reveals the natural history of the disease and the risk factors associated with its progression, to guide the antifibrotic action of different treatments. Currently, in clinical practice, there are three available methods for the evaluation of liver fibrosis: liver biopsy, which is still considered to be the 'gold standard'; serological markers of fibrosis and their mathematical combination - suggested in recent years to be an alternative to liver biopsy - and, more recently, transient elastography (TE). TE is a new, simple and noninvasive method used to measure liver stiffness. This technique is based on the progressing speed of an elastic shear wave within the liver. Currently, there are only a few studies that have evaluated TE effectiveness in chronic liver diseases, mostly in patients infected with the hepatitis C virus. Further studies are needed in patients with chronic liver disease, to assess the effectiveness of the fibrosis treatment."}
{"id": "18030211", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement in children using FibroScan: feasibility study and comparison with Fibrotest, aspartate transaminase to platelets ratio index, and liver biopsy.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement in children using FibroScan: feasibility study and comparison with Fibrotest, aspartate transaminase to platelets ratio index, and liver biopsy. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a novel, noninvasive, rapid bedside method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness in adult patients. The usefulness of FibroScan in children with chronic liver diseases is unknown. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the feasibility of liver stiffness measurement and to compare FibroScan, Fibrotest, and aspartate transaminase to platelets ratio index (APRI) with liver biopsy for the diagnosis of cirrhosis in children with chronic liver diseases. Between February 2004 and October 2005, 116 consecutive children with chronic liver diseases were prospectively included. All except 1 child (58 boys, mean age 10.7 years) could have noninvasive tests for fibrosis: FibroScan, Fibrotest, and APRI, and, when necessary, a liver biopsy (n = 33). FibroScan, Fibrotest, and APRI were correlated with clinical or biological parameters of chronic liver diseases, but the FibroScan marker correlated most with all parameters. By histology, the METAVIR fibrosis category score was F1 in 7 cases, F2 in 8 cases, F3 in 6 cases, and F4 in 12 cases. FibroScan, Fibrotest, and APRI were significantly correlated with the METAVIR fibrosis score. For the diagnosis of cirrhosis, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.88, 0.73, and 0.73 for FibroScan, Fibrotest, and APRI, respectively. These results indicate that liver stiffness measurement is feasible in children and is related to liver fibrosis. A specific probe dedicated to children and slender patients has thus been developed and is currently under evaluation. The FibroScan equipped with this specific probe could become a useful tool for the management of chronic liver diseases in children."}
{"id": "17965633", "title": "[Non invasive markers using for the assessment of fibrosis in hepatitis C].", "content": "[Non invasive markers using for the assessment of fibrosis in hepatitis C]. Non invasive fibrosis markers, recently developed, are now an interesting alternative to liver biopsy in order to appreciate the severity of chronic hepatitis C. Serological markers, especially Fibrotest and Fibrometer, have a good diagnostic accuracy to discriminate patients with mild fibrosis to those with severe fibrosis. For intermediate stages, the discordance is very important and often justifies liver biopsy or using of several markers. Transient elastography (Fibroscan) is a new non invasive method subject to good conditions of utilisation. Diagnostic accuracy is improved by the using of all the markers, especially of Fibrotest. Transient elastography is also a promising method for assessing the severity of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "17916549", "title": "Ultrasound-based transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis: systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Ultrasound-based transient elastography for the detection of hepatic fibrosis: systematic review and meta-analysis. Ultrasound-based transient elastography is a promising noninvasive alternative to liver biopsy for detecting hepatic fibrosis. However, its overall test performance in various settings remains unknown. The aims of this study were to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies comparing ultrasound-based transient elastography with liver biopsy for hepatic fibrosis. Electronic and manual bibliographic searches to identify potential studies were performed. Selection of studies was based on reported accuracy of ultrasound-based transient elastography compared with liver biopsy. Data extraction was performed independently by 2 reviewers. Meta-analysis combined the sensitivities, specificities, and likelihood ratios of individual studies. Extent and reasons for heterogeneity were assessed. Nine studies in full publication were identified. For patients with stage IV fibrosis (cirrhosis), the pooled estimates for sensitivity were 87% (95% confidence interval [CI], 84%-90%), specificity 91% (95% CI, 89%-92%), positive likelihood ratio 11.7 (95% CI, 7.9-17.1), and negative likelihood ratio 0.14 (95% CI, 0.10-0.20). Among 7 investigations reporting patients with stages II-IV fibrosis, the pooled estimates for sensitivity were 70% (95% CI, 67%-73%), specificity 84% (95% CI, 80%-88%), positive likelihood ratio 4.2 (95% CI, 2.4-7.2), and negative likelihood ratio 0.31 (95% CI, 0.23-0.43). Diagnostic threshold (or cut-off value) bias was identified as an important cause of heterogeneity for pooled results in both patient groups. Ultrasound-based transient elastography appears to be a clinically useful test for detecting cirrhosis."}
{"id": "17850410", "title": "FibroTest and FibroScan for the prediction of hepatitis C-related fibrosis: a systematic review of diagnostic test accuracy.", "content": "FibroTest and FibroScan for the prediction of hepatitis C-related fibrosis: a systematic review of diagnostic test accuracy. The accurate diagnosis of hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related fibrosis is crucial for prognostication and treatment decisions. Due to the limitations of biopsy, noninvasive alternatives including FibroTest and FibroScan have been developed. Our objective was to systematically review studies describing the accuracy of these tests for predicting HCV-related fibrosis. Studies comparing FibroTest or FibroScan versus biopsy in HCV patients were identified via an electronic search. Random effects meta-analyses and areas under summary receiver operating characteristics curves (AUC) were examined to characterize test accuracy for significant fibrosis (F2-4) and cirrhosis. Heterogeneity was explored using meta-regression. Twelve studies were identified, 9 for FibroTest (N = 1,679) and 4 for FibroScan (N = 546). In heterogeneous analyses for significant fibrosis, the AUCs for FibroTest and FibroScan were 0.81 (95% CI 0.78-84) and 0.83 (0.03-1.00), respectively. At a threshold of approximately 0.60, the sensitivity and specificity of the FibroTest were 47% (35-59%) and 90% (87-92%). For FibroScan (threshold approximately 8 kPa), corresponding values were 64% (50-76%) and 87% (80-91%), respectively. Methodological quality, the length of liver biopsy specimens, and inclusion of special populations did not explain the observed heterogeneity. However, the diagnostic accuracy of both measures was associated with the prevalence of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in the study populations. For cirrhosis, the summary AUCs for FibroTest and FibroScan were 0.90 (95% CI not calculable) and 0.95 (0.87-0.99), respectively. FibroTest and FibroScan have excellent utility for the identification of HCV-related cirrhosis, but lesser accuracy for earlier stages. Refinements are necessary before these tests can replace liver biopsy."}
{"id": "17828808", "title": "Transient elastography for the assessment of chronic liver disease: ready for the clinic?", "content": "Transient elastography for the assessment of chronic liver disease: ready for the clinic? Transient elastography is a recently developed non-invasive technique for the assessment of hepatic fibrosis. The technique has been subject to rigorous evaluation in a number of studies in patients with chronic liver disease of varying aetiology. Transient elastography has been compared with histological assessment of percutaneous liver biopsy, with high sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of cirrhosis, and has also been used to assess pre-cirrhotic disease. However, the cut-off values between different histological stages vary substantially in different studies, patient groups and aetiology of liver disease. More recent studies have examined the possible place of transient elastography in clinical practice, including risk stratification for the development of complications of cirrhosis. This review describes the technique of transient elastography and discusses the interpretation of recent studies, emphasizing its applicability in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "17763808", "title": "[Diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis].", "content": "[Diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis]. Liver biopsy is the gold standard in the diagnosis of liver diseases, despite its limitations, such as sampling error and its invasive nature. Given the increasing prevalence ofhepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis, new non-invasive methods are being developed as a substitute for liver biopsy. Transient elastography (Fibroscan), which measures the stiffness of the liver by means of ultrasound as a measure of fibrosis and cirrhosis, is simple to perform and the inter- and intra-observer variability is small. The accuracy, in relation to liver biopsy, is high in discriminating between cirrhosis and fibrosis, but lower for discriminating between the different stages offibrosis. The Fibrotest is the most investigated combination of serum markers for fibrosis. Its accuracy is lower than that ofa liver biopsy. In the years to come, more research by various independent research groups is needed with the Fibroscan method and the combination of serum markers in different groups of patients and with standardised cut-off points; these must be compared with liver biopsies of sufficient length. In this way, the value of these non-invasive methods can be evaluated. A possible future role for serum markers is to combine them with the Fibroscan, whereby a discrepancy between the different tests could be an indication for a liver biopsy."}
{"id": "17708599", "title": "Noninvasive diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Noninvasive diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Assessment of hepatic fibrosis is important for determining prognosis, guiding management decisions, and monitoring disease. Histological evaluation of liver biopsy specimens is currently considered the reference test for staging hepatic fibrosis. Since liver biopsy carries a small but significant risk, noninvasive tests to assess hepatic fibrosis are desirable. This editorial gives an overview on noninvasive methods currently available to determine hepatic fibrosis and their diagnostic accuracy for predicting significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis C. Based on available data, the performance of simple tests derived from routine laboratory parameters appears to be similar to that of more complex and expensive fibrosis panels. Transient elastography seems more accurate than blood tests for diagnosing cirrhosis."}
{"id": "17585186", "title": "[Clinical application of non-invasive diagnosis for hepatic fibrosis].", "content": "[Clinical application of non-invasive diagnosis for hepatic fibrosis]. Progressive hepatic fibrosis with development of cirrhosis is a feature of chronic liver disease. Assessing fibrosis is important for predicting disease progression and patient management. Liver biopsy is the current gold standard for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is an invasive procedure. Alternative non-invasive methods have been developed. Serum markers are useful in predicting liver cirrhosis, but accuracy of serum markers is not satisfactory in the assessment of fibrosis. Newly developed transient elastography (Fibroscan) is a non-invasive method of measuring liver stiffness. Fibroscan has been reported to be superior in early detection of cirrhosis to serum markers. Factors influencing it's performance are not fully investigated. The evaluation of new tests should be continued to perform."}
{"id": "17530363", "title": "Diagnosis of hepatic steatosis and fibrosis by transient elastography in asymptomatic healthy individuals: a prospective study of living related potential liver donors.", "content": "Diagnosis of hepatic steatosis and fibrosis by transient elastography in asymptomatic healthy individuals: a prospective study of living related potential liver donors. This prospective study aimed to assess the ability of transient elastography to identify histologic parameters, including steatosis, in asymptomatic healthy individuals such as potential liver donors, and to compare these findings with results in liver disease patients. Forty-seven patients with abnormal liver function and/or hepatitis symptoms and 80 living related potential liver donors were consecutively enrolled, and liver biopsy and a Fibroscan test were performed in each subject. Histologic parameters were evaluated according to METAVIR scale by a single pathologist. In liver disease patients, stiffness was significantly correlated with fibrosis stage (Spearman correlation coefficient, 0.700; P < 0.001), and the optimal stiffness cutoff values for F >or= 2, F >or= 3, and F = 4 were 7.35, 8.85, and 15.1 kPa respectively. In potential liver donors, however, stiffness was not correlated with fibrosis (0.023; P = 0.851). In the latter group, the area under the receiver-operating characteristics curve was 0.70 (95% confidence interval, 0.58-0.81), and the optimal stiffness cutoff value was 4.00 for F >or= 2, which was lower than that in liver disease patients. Steatosis was not correlated with stiffness (0.088; P = 0.463) in potential liver donors. Transient elastography has limited value for detecting steatosis in asymptomatic healthy individuals, and the cutoff value for fibrosis should be reevaluated in these subjects."}
{"id": "17503318", "title": "[Transient elastography (FibroScan) for the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis: current status and perspectives].", "content": "[Transient elastography (FibroScan) for the non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis: current status and perspectives]. A precise staging of the degree of liver fibrosis is important for the estimation of prognosis, surveillance and treatment decision in patients with chronic liver diseases. At present, liver biopsy is still the reference standard for the assessment of liver fibrosis. However, it is an invasive method associated with patient discomfort and in rare cases with serious complications. In addition, the accuracy of liver biopsy is limited due to intra- and interobserver variability and sampling errors. Non-invasive markers and methods for the assessment of liver fibrosis have been intensively evaluated in many studies. The FibroScan (Echosens, France) uses the transient elastography principle for the measurement of liver stiffness. At present (January 2007), studies evaluating the FibroScan in a wide range of liver diseases have been published in 20 full papers and 76 abstracts. The present review gives an overview of the current literature. The best results are reported for the differentiation between cirrhosis and no cirrhosis. With the combination of FibroScan and non-invasive serum fibrosis markers, the accuracy for the diagnosis of significant fibrosis (Metavir F > or = 2) can be further improved. According to recent data the FibroScan can also be useful for the evaluation of treatment response in patients receiving antiviral treatment for chronic hepatitis C. In addition, several studies have shown, that the FibroScan can be applied to estimate the risk of complications associated with liver cirrhosis."}
{"id": "17498249", "title": "Biochemical and biophysical assessment of MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients: Fibrotest predicts the presence and Fibroscan predicts the absence of significant liver fibrosis.", "content": "Biochemical and biophysical assessment of MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients: Fibrotest predicts the presence and Fibroscan predicts the absence of significant liver fibrosis. Methotrexate (MTX) use is associated with hepatic fibrosis in psoriasis patients. To monitor this serial liver biopsies were performed. The Fibroscan and the Fibrotest are two novel, non-invasive methods that might be able to assess MTX-induced hepatic fibrosis. Evaluating the accuracy and feasibility of the Fibroscan and Fibrotest to detect significant MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients. We assessed 24 psoriasis patients who had a recent liver biopsy during MTX use. The results from the Fibroscan and Fibrotest were compared with liver histology. Fibroscan values (n=20) ranged between 3.3 and 18.4 kPa (median value 6.4 kPa) and correctly identified 88% of the patients without significant liver fibrosis (Metavir score <F2, Fibroscan</=7.1 kPa). The Fibrotest identified 83% of the patients with significant liver fibrosis (Metavir score >/=F2, Fibrotest >0.31). In this population, Fibrotest accurately predicted the presence of significant liver fibrosis while the Fibroscan accurately predicted the absence of significant liver fibrosis in MTX users. This suggests that a combination of Fibrotest and Fibroscan should prospectively be evaluated in monitoring and detecting significant MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients."}
{"id": "17415348", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis in the clinical setting: something is changing?", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis in the clinical setting: something is changing? Clinical management of compensated chronic liver diseases (CLD) requires precise definition of the stage of liver fibrosis which is the key histologic predictor of progression to cirrhosis. Several methods are used to assess liver fibrosis. Among those, percutaneous liver biopsy is still the gold standard. However, the recent introduction of liver imaging techniques, the rising of statistical tests able to classify CLD noninvasively, and a reconsideration of its potential complications, have contributed to an audit of the evolving role of liver biopsy. At present, there is an increasing interest for noninvasive approaches to evaluate the stage of liver fibrosis in the clinical work-up of patients with CLD. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is a new, noninvasive method to assess liver stiffness and, consequently, the degree of liver fibrosis. Since its use in the clinical setting is of great interest, further studies should define the exact role of this procedure."}
{"id": "17258346", "title": "Features associated with success rate and performance of FibroScan measurements for the diagnosis of cirrhosis in HCV patients: a prospective study of 935 patients.", "content": "Features associated with success rate and performance of FibroScan measurements for the diagnosis of cirrhosis in HCV patients: a prospective study of 935 patients. FibroScan, a non-invasive procedure for the diagnosis of cirrhosis, benefits only patients for which at least 10 valid shots are acquired. We investigated features associated with success rate of shots, and performance of FibroScan for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. Liver biopsy and stiffness measurement were performed in HCV patients. AUROCs and mixed logistic models evaluated the influence of patient and operator features on the success of shots and the performance for the diagnosis of cirrhosis. Nine hundred and thirty five (935) patients were included. Success rate of shots decreased with age, and was lower in obese than in other patients. After adjusting for age and obesity, an operator with at least 50 prior FibroScan exams had a higher success rate in shots. FibroScan performance for the diagnosis of cirrhosis was not influenced by the number of valid shots taken into account and by operator skills. After a rapid training, FibroScan provides a reasonable performance for the diagnosis of cirrhosis that is not influenced substantially by any other feature. More patients will benefit from this procedure with no significant loss in performance if only 5 valid shots are requested. These results should emphasize the use of FibroScan even in non-specialized units."}
{"id": "17255218", "title": "Reproducibility of transient elastography in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease.", "content": "Reproducibility of transient elastography in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease. Transient elastography (TE) is gaining popularity as a non-invasive method for predicting liver fibrosis, but intraobserver and interobserver agreement and factors influencing TE reproducibility have not been adequately assessed. This study investigated these aspects. Tertiary referral liver unit. Over a 4-month period, 200 patients with chronic liver disease (CLD) with varying aetiology consecutively underwent TE and liver biopsy. TE was performed twice by two different operators either concomitantly or within 3 days of the bioptic procedure (METAVIR classification). Intraobserver and interobserver agreement were analysed using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and correlated with different patient-related and liver disease-related covariates. 800 TE examinations were performed, with an indeterminate result rate of 2.4%. The overall interobserver agreement ICC was 0.98 (95% CI 0.977 to 0.987). Increased body mass index (>25 kg/m(2)), steatosis, and low staging grades (fibrosis (F) stage <2) were significantly associated with reduced ICC (p<0.05). Intraobserver agreement ICC was 0.98 for both raters. Using receiver operating characteristic curves, three diagnostic TE thresholds were identified: >7.9 kPa for F>/=2, >10.3 for F>/=3 and >11.9 for F = 4. TE values assessed by the two raters fell within the same cut-off of fibrosis in 88% of the cases for F>/=2, in 92% for F>/=3 and 91% for F = 4. TE is a highly reproducible and user-friendly technique for assessing liver fibrosis in patients with CLD. However, because TE reproducibility is significantly reduced (p<0.05) in patients with steatosis, increased BMI and lower degrees of hepatic fibrosis, caution is warranted in the clinical use of TE as a surrogate for liver biopsy."}
{"id": "17239163", "title": "Significant liver damage in patients with bleeding disorders and chronic hepatitis C: non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis using transient elastography.", "content": "Significant liver damage in patients with bleeding disorders and chronic hepatitis C: non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis using transient elastography. Many patients with bleeding disorders have been infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV), mainly with genotype 1. Antiviral treatment is only effective in 50% of these patients and is often accompanied by serious side effects. Consequently, careful selection of patients for treatment is warranted. Liver biopsies are generally not performed in these patients because of increased bleeding risk and high costs. We therefore assessed liver fibrosis and cirrhosis non-invasively using liver stiffness measurement (LSM). We enrolled 124 patients with bleeding disorders and chronic hepatitis C. Liver fibrosis was assessed by LSM using Fibroscan. In order to assess the validity of LSM in our hands, a separate group of 63 patients without bleeding disorders infected with HCV were evaluated with both LSM and biopsy. In the validation study, liver elasticity was highly correlated with histological fibrosis stage (correlations coefficient 0.73, P < 0.001). Based on LSM, 18% of patients with bleeding disorders and chronic hepatitis C had severe fibrosis, and 17% had cirrhosis after 34 years of infection (range 14-40). However, the prevalence of cirrhosis based on laboratory and ultrasonographic findings was only 7%. Independent risk factors for an increase in LSM were older age at infection, higher body mass index, presence of viral co-infection, and male gender. Fifteen out of 59 patients (25%) with an apparent indication for treatment (significant fibrosis by LSM) agreed to start antiviral therapy within 3 months. We found an unexpected high number of patients with significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with bleeding disorders and hepatitis C detected by LSM, with considerable impact on the management of the disease."}
{"id": "17030451", "title": "Outbreak of hepatitis C virus infection during sclerotherapy of varicose veins: long-term follow-up of 196 patients (4535 patient-years).", "content": "Outbreak of hepatitis C virus infection during sclerotherapy of varicose veins: long-term follow-up of 196 patients (4535 patient-years). The aim of this study was to describe the natural history of a HCV infection outbreak in 196 patients who had sclerotherapy by a same physician and to confirm patient-to-patient transmission using phylogenetic analysis in a large series of patients. Demographic information included clinical and biological parameters. Fibrosis evaluation was performed using liver biopsy or transient elastography. Follow-up was maintained until death, or the end of the observation period. In order to determine if the virus had been transmitted between the HCV genotype 2 patients, sequence analysis was undertaken of a part of the NS5b region of the genomes in samples of patients. The mean duration of follow-up was 23.1+/-6.7 years (4535 patient-years). In patients with fibrosis evaluation, 55.7% had no or mild fibrosis and 44.3% had significant fibrosis. No patient died from HCV-related disease. Nucleotide sequence analysis of a part of the NS5b region revealed that patients were all infected with the same HCV subtype (genotype 2d). The most evident feature of the tree is the clustering of all patients involved in the outbreak without any unrelated isolates. This study emphasizes the risk for nosocomial spread of HCV during intravenous therapy."}
{"id": "17438875", "title": "Transient elastography--an alternative to liver biopsy in patients with chronic hepatitis C?", "content": "Transient elastography--an alternative to liver biopsy in patients with chronic hepatitis C? Liver fibrosis is the main determinant of clinical outcomes of chronic hepatitis C. Liver biopsy is still considered the gold-standard for assessing liver fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is an invasive procedure associated with morbidity and mortality and has several limitations. Moreover, liver biopsy is not well accepted by the patients, especially when repeated examinations are needed, and its accuracy in assessing fibrosis is questionable due to sampling errors, intraobserver and interobserver discrepancies. Therefore, over the last years there has been an increasing interest and desire for non-invasive tests to assess the stage of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. There are three main groups of non-invasive methodologies for the assessment of liver fibrosis: serum markers, imaging techniques, and transient elastrography. This review summarizes current information on transient elastography used for non-invasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C."}
{"id": "17227522", "title": "Liver stiffness measurement versus clinicians' prediction or both for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Liver stiffness measurement versus clinicians' prediction or both for the assessment of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. The goal of this study was to estimate the additional value of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) with physicians' assessment of fibrosis based on epidemiological, clinical, and biological parameters. One hundred forty-two unselected patients with chronic hepatitis C were included. Liver biopsy and LSM were performed simultaneously. First, four physicians (two junior residents with limited experience in hepatology and two senior hepatologists) independently predicted the stage of fibrosis according to the METAVIR classification, using clinical, epidemiological, and biological data. For the second step, they were informed of LSM values and could modify their first evaluation if necessary. Finally, the two successive evaluations were compared with the histological fibrosis score. Providing LSM values improved agreement between physicians and resulted in a better correlation between clinical impression and histological liver fibrosis. The diagnostic performances were only significantly improved with transient elastography for the diagnosis of cirrhosis where assessment improved in three of the four physicians (AUROC [area under receiver operating characteristic curve]: 0.76 vs 0.87, 0.80 vs 0.87, and 0.83 vs 0.89, all p < 0.05). Moreover, these performances were nearly similar for junior and senior physicians when LSM was provided with the AUROC ranging from 0.69 to 0.72 for significant fibrosis and 0.87 to 0.90 for cirrhosis. Providing LSM values to physicians results in a better estimation of liver fibrosis and a more accurate diagnosis of cirrhosis. Moreover, it allows physicians with limited experience to predict liver fibrosis as well as experienced hepatologists."}
{"id": "17203518", "title": "Usefulness of noninvasive transient elastography for assessment of liver fibrosis stage in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Usefulness of noninvasive transient elastography for assessment of liver fibrosis stage in chronic hepatitis C. To evaluate the method of noninvasive transient elastography for assessment of histological stage of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Two hundred and thirty-seven patients with CHC were included in this study. Liver biopsy was performed under ultrasonography on 217 of the patients, excluding twenty with clear clinical evidence of liver cirrhosis. Fifty subjects without liver disease were enrolled as a control group (stage 0). Twenty-five patients with sustained virological response (SVR) to interferon (IFN) therapy were also enrolled. These patients underwent liver biopsy before IFN therapy. Examination of liver stiffness (LS) was performed by elastography. Medians (50% levels) of LS were 4.1 (3.5-4.9), 6.3 (4.8-8.5), 8.8 (6.8-12.0), 14.6 (10.5-18.6), and 22.2 (15.4-28.0), respectively, in the fibrosis stages 0-4 (P < 0.001). LS was significantly correlated with four serum fibrosis markers. LS values in patients with SVR were 3.8 (3.5-5.6), 5.2 (4.4-6.8), 6.8 (6.1-7.6), and 6.1 (3.6-7.9), respectively, in the fibrosis stages 1-4. In all stages, LS for patients with SVR was significantly lower than that for patients who did not undergo IFN therapy. LS was significantly correlated with serum concentrations of hyaluronic acid, type IV collagen, type IV collagen 7S, and type III procollagen N peptide. LS correlated well with the histological stage of fibrosis. Changes in liver fibrosis stage may thus be estimated noninvasively using transient elastography."}
{"id": "17014063", "title": "Transient elastography (FibroScan) for non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis.", "content": "Transient elastography (FibroScan) for non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis. (1) Liver fibrosis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The major cause is hepatitis C, which affects 240,000 Canadians. (2) Assessing the degree of liver fibrosis is critical to its management. Liver biopsy, an invasive procedure, is considered to be the diagnostic gold standard. (3) FibroScan is a rapid, non-invasive technology that uses low frequency vibration and ultrasound to assess the stiffness of liver tissue. (4) The diagnostic performance of FibroScan is good for identifying severe fibrosis or cirrhosis, but it is less accurate for milder presentations. (5) FibroScan is a promising technology, but large multi-centre trials comparing a range of emerging non-invasive fibrosis staging technologies are required."}
{"id": "16886917", "title": "Transient elastography: a valid alternative to biopsy in patients with chronic liver disease.", "content": "Transient elastography: a valid alternative to biopsy in patients with chronic liver disease. Transient elastography is a novel and non-invasive technique for the evaluation of fibrosis in chronic liver disease. Few studies that exist value the efficacy of transient elastography, mainly in hepatitis C virus-infected patients. To evaluate the effectiveness, objectivity, reproducibility and safety of this technique. We included 103 consecutive patients who underwent a liver biopsy in the last 48 months with a wide spectrum of chronic liver diseases. Median stiffness value (expressed as kilopascals - kPa) was kept as representative of the liver elastic modulus. All biopsy specimens were analysed by the same pathologist according to the METAVIR scoring system. Median value of stiffness in patients with mild or moderate fibrosis (FI and FII), and severe fibrosis or cirrhosis (FIII and FIV) was of 7, 4 +/- 5 and 16, 4 +/- 10 kPa, respectively, with a significant difference between them (P < 0.05). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves showed the optimal liver stiffness cut-off values for each group. We found a positive correlation between the liver stiffness found by transient elastography and fibrosis stage on biopsy in all patients, independently of the liver disease aetiology. Transient elastography is an easy, quick to perform and safe non-invasive procedure, reliable for assessing liver fibrosis."}
{"id": "16865773", "title": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by a noninvasive method of transient elastography and biochemical markers.", "content": "Assessment of liver fibrosis by a noninvasive method of transient elastography and biochemical markers. To assess the correlation between the fibrotic area (FA) as calculated by a digital image analysis (DIA), and to compare the diagnostic accuracy of FibroScan to the other existing Liver fibrosis (LF) markers using the receiver operating curve analysis. We recruited 30 patients who underwent a liver resection for three different etiologies including normal liver, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. Liver stiffness was measured by using a FibroScan. The FA was then calculated by DIA to evaluate LF in order to avoid any sampling bias. The FA negatively correlated with Prothrom-bin time (PT), platelet count, lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), and pre-albumin (ALB). On the other hand, the findings of FibroScan correlated with similar markers. The FA positively correlated with FibroScan, serum hyaluronate level, and type IV collagen level, and aspartate transaminase to platelet ratio index (APRI). The area under the receiver operating curve for FibroScan was higher than that for the other markers, even though the statistical significance was minimal. Our findings suggest that FibroScan can initially be used to assess LF as an alternative to a liver biopsy (LB) and serum diagnosis, because it is a safe method with comparable diagnostic accuracy regarding the existing LF markers."}
{"id": "16823833", "title": "Transient elastography for diagnosis of advanced fibrosis and portal hypertension in patients with hepatitis C recurrence after liver transplantation.", "content": "Transient elastography for diagnosis of advanced fibrosis and portal hypertension in patients with hepatitis C recurrence after liver transplantation. Recurrence of hepatitis C after liver transplantation (LT) is the main cause of graft loss and retransplantation. Frequent liver biopsies are essential to follow-up hepatitis C virus (HCV)-induced liver damage. However, liver biopsy is an invasive and expensive procedure. We evaluated prospectively the diagnostic accuracy of noninvasive measurement of liver stiffness (by transient elastography) to assess the severity of hepatitis C recurrence after LT. For this purpose, we included 124 HCV-infected liver transplant recipients who underwent 169 liver biopsies and 129 hepatic hemodynamic studies with determination of hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG). Simultaneously, patients underwent measurement of liver stiffness. Liver fibrosis was mild (F0-F1) in 96 cases (57%) and significant (F2-F4) in 73 (43%). HVPG was normal (<6 mm Hg) in 69 cases (54%) and elevated (>or=6 mm Hg) in 60 (46%). Using a liver stiffness cutoff value of 8.5 kilopascals, the sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, and positive predictive value for diagnosis of fibrosis >or=F2 were 90%, 81%, 79%, and 92%, respectively. The area under the curve (AUC) for diagnosis of fibrosis >or=F2, >or=F3 and F4 were 0.90, 0.93, and 0.98, respectively. There was a close direct correlation between liver stiffness and HVPG (Pearson coefficient, 0.84; P < 0.001) and the AUC for diagnosis of portal hypertension (HVPG >or=6 mm Hg) was 0.93. Importantly, none of the individuals with liver stiffness below the cutoff value had either bridging fibrosis (F3) or cirrhosis (F4) or significant portal hypertension (HVPG >or=10 mm Hg). In conclusion, determination of liver stiffness is an extremely valuable tool to assess the severity of HCV recurrence after LT and in reducing the need of follow-up liver biopsies."}
{"id": "16782627", "title": "Non-invasive measurement of liver fibrosis: application of the FibroScan in hepatology.", "content": "Non-invasive measurement of liver fibrosis: application of the FibroScan in hepatology. The liver biopsy is still regarded as the gold standard for the assessment of liver disease. However, there is a growing demand for non-invasive assessment of liver fibrosis, which is the most important prognostic factor in chronic liver disease, in particular in viral hepatitis. Transient elastography is a novel, non-invasive and rapid bedside method for assessing liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness. Some recent extensive studies, mainly from France, have demonstrated that measurement with the FibroScan is a good alternative for the liver biopsy. The amount of fibrosis can be quantified very easily and reliably. In this review, we describe the technique and discuss the available studies in order to establish applicability and to provide points for discussion."}
{"id": "16696812", "title": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis by transient elastography (FibroScan) and non-invasive methods in Crohn's disease patients treated with methotrexate.", "content": "Diagnosis of liver fibrosis by transient elastography (FibroScan) and non-invasive methods in Crohn's disease patients treated with methotrexate. Methotrexate is an effective treatment in Crohn's disease, which may induce liver fibrosis with high cumulative doses. Transient elastography (FibroScan, Echosens, Paris, France) is a new non-invasive rapid, allowing assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of liver stiffness. A prospective study to evaluate liver fibrosis with FibroScan and non-invasive biochemical methods in Crohn's disease patients treated with methotrexate. Consecutive Crohn's disease patients had evaluation of liver fibrosis with non-invasive methods. Two subgroups of patients were compared: cumulative dose of methotrexate of more than 1500 mg (group 1) and naive for methotrexate (group 2). Liver biopsy was performed in patients with persistent liver enzyme abnormalities or FibroScan value >8.7 kPa. Fifty-four consecutive Crohn's disease patients were fully investigated (45 females, mean age 41 +/- 14 years). Median FibroScan values were similar in group 1 (n = 21) and in group 2 (n = 33), 5.5 and 4.5 kPa, respectively. FibroScan values were not correlated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate. In Crohn's disease patients treated with a high dose of methotrexate, significant liver fibrosis is rare and not accurately detected with liver enzymes abnormalities. FibroScan could be recommended and liver biopsy could be performed only with patients with high values and/or with chronic liver enzymes abnormalities."}
{"id": "16628644", "title": "Assessment of biliary fibrosis by transient elastography in patients with PBC and PSC.", "content": "Assessment of biliary fibrosis by transient elastography in patients with PBC and PSC. Noninvasive measurement of liver stiffness with transient elastography has been recently validated for the evaluation of hepatic fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. The current study assessed the diagnostic performance of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) for the determination of fibrosis stage in chronic cholestatic diseases. One hundred one patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC, n=73) or primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC, n=28) were prospectively enrolled in a multicenter study. All patients underwent liver biopsy (LB) and LSM. Histological and fibrosis stages were assessed on LB by two pathologists. LSM was performed by transient elastography. Efficiency of LSM for the determination of histological and fibrosis stages were determined by a receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis. Analysis failed in six patients (5.9%) because of unsuitable LB (n=4) or LSM (n=2). Stiffness values ranged from 2.8 to 69.1 kPa (median, 7.8 kPa). LSM was correlated to both fibrosis (Spearman's rho= 0.84, P < .0001) and histological (0.79, P < .0001) stages. These correlations were still found when PBC and PSC patients were analyzed separately. Areas under ROC curves were 0.92 for fibrosis stage (F) > or =2, 0.95 for F > or =3 and 0.96 for F=4. Optimal stiffness cutoff values of 7.3, 9.8, and 17.3 kPa showed F > or =2, F > or =3 and F=4, respectively. LSM and serum hyaluronic acid level were independent parameters associated with extensive fibrosis on LB. In conclusion, transient elastography is a simple and reliable noninvasive means for assessing biliary fibrosis. It should be a promising tool to assess antifibrotic therapies in PBC or PSC."}
{"id": "16538113", "title": "Prevalence and factors associated with failure of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in a prospective study of 2114 examinations.", "content": "Prevalence and factors associated with failure of liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan in a prospective study of 2114 examinations. Liver stiffness measurement using FibroScan is a novel rapid and non-invasive technique that evaluates liver fibrosis. In some cases, however, no elasticity measurement is obtained. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the prevalence and factors associated with failure (no value obtained after 10 measurements) of liver stiffness measurement in patients with chronic liver disease. Two thousand one hundred and fourteen liver stiffness measurements were analyzed. Failure was observed in 96 cases (4.5%). Failure was not associated with operator, gender, or transaminase level. By multivariate analysis, the only factor associated with failure was body mass index greater than 28 (odds ratio, 10.0 degrees; 95% confidence interval, 5.7-17.9, P=0.001). In conclusion, liver stiffness is a good method for the evaluation of liver fibrosis that is feasible in more than 95% of patients. Other non-invasive methods such as biochemical methods or liver biopsy could therefore be used only in patients with failure of FibroScan examination."}
{"id": "16394849", "title": "Diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis by transient elastography in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients.", "content": "Diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis by transient elastography in HIV/hepatitis C virus-coinfected patients. Chronic hepatitis C in HIV-infected patients is an increasing cause of death dependent on the development of liver fibrosis, which is currently assessed by liver biopsy despite its limitations. Liver stiffness measurement, a new noninvasive method, allows the evaluation of liver fibrosis. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the accuracy of liver stiffness measurement for the detection of fibrosis and cirrhosis in HIV/hepatitis C virus (HCV)-coinfected patients and to compare its accuracy with other noninvasive methods. We studied 72 consecutive HIV patients with chronic hepatitis C who had a simultaneous liver biopsy and liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography (FibroScan; Echosens, Paris, France) for the assessment of liver fibrosis. Liver stiffness values ranged from 3.0 to 46.4 kilopascal. Liver stiffness was significantly correlated to fibrosis stage (Kendall tau-b = 0.48; P < 0.0001). The area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve of liver stiffness measurement was 0.72 for F > or = 2 and 0.97 for F = 4. For the diagnosis of cirrhosis, AUROC curves of liver stiffness measurement were significantly higher than those for platelet count (P = 0.02), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ratio (P = 0.0001), Aspartate aminotransferase-to-Platelet Ratio Index (APRI) (P = 0.01), and FIB-4 (P = 0.004). Liver stiffness measurement is a promising noninvasive method for the assessment of fibrosis in HIV-infected patients with chronic HCV infection. Its use for the follow-up of these patients should be further evaluated."}
{"id": "16121354", "title": "Value of two noninvasive methods to detect progression of fibrosis among HCV carriers with normal aminotransferases.", "content": "Value of two noninvasive methods to detect progression of fibrosis among HCV carriers with normal aminotransferases. The course of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection carriers with normal/near-normal aminotransferases (NALT) is usually mild; however, in a few, fibrosis progression occurs. We aimed to verify whether monitoring by liver biopsy might be replaced by noninvasive methods and to identify factors associated with fibrosis progression in patients with persistently normal alanine aminotransferases. We studied 40 untreated HCV-RNA-positive subjects (22 male; median age, 44 years), who underwent two liver biopsies, with a median interval of 78.5 months, during which alanine aminotransferase concentrations (median number of determinations: 12) never exceeded 1.2 times the upper normal limit. Within 9 months from the second biopsy, they were tested by the shear elasticity probe (Fibroscan) and the artificial intelligence algorithm FibroTest. METAVIR fibrosis scores were analyzed in relationship to demographic, clinical, and viral parameters. Weighted kappa analysis was used to verify whether the results of noninvasive methods agreed with histology. Significant fibrosis (> or = F2), present at the first biopsy in only one patient (2.5%), was observed at the second biopsy in 14 patients (35%). At multivariate analysis, excess alcohol consumption in the past (>20 g/d; P = .017) and viral load (>8.0 x 10(6) copies/mL; P = .021) were independent predictors of progression. In identifying patients with significant fibrosis, inter-rater agreement was excellent for Fibroscan (weighted kappa = 1.0), and poor for FibroTest (weighted kappa = -0.041). In conclusion, among HCV carriers with NALT, Fibroscan is superior to the FibroTest in the noninvasive identification of fibrosis, for which excess alcohol consumption in the past and high viral load represent risk factors."}
{"id": "15690481", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of stiffness in patients with chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of stiffness in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Liver fibrosis is the main predictor of the progression of chronic hepatitis C, and its assessment by liver biopsy (LB) can help determine therapy. However, biopsy is an invasive procedure with several limitations. A new, noninvasive medical device based on transient elastography has been designed to measure liver stiffness. The aim of this study was to investigate the use of liver stiffness measurement (LSM) in the evaluation of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C. We prospectively enrolled 327 patients with chronic hepatitis C in a multicenter study. Patients underwent LB and LSM. METAVIR liver fibrosis stages were assessed on biopsy specimens by 2 pathologists. LSM was performed by transient elastography. Efficiency of LSM and optimal cutoff values for fibrosis stage assessment were determined by a receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis and cross-validated by the jack-knife method. LSM was well correlated with fibrosis stage (Kendall correlation coefficient: 0.55; P < .0001). The areas under ROC curves were 0.79 (95% CI, 0.73-0.84) for F > or =2, 0.91 (0.87-0.96) for F > or =3, and 0.97 (0.93-1) for F=4; for larger biopsies, these values were, respectively, 0.81, 0.95, and 0.99. Optimal stiffness cutoff values of 8.7 and 14.5 kPa showed F > or =2 and F=4, respectively. In conclusion, noninvasive assessment of liver stiffness with transient elastography appears as a reliable tool to detect significant fibrosis or cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C."}
{"id": "15685546", "title": "Prospective comparison of transient elastography, Fibrotest, APRI, and liver biopsy for the assessment of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C.", "content": "Prospective comparison of transient elastography, Fibrotest, APRI, and liver biopsy for the assessment of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. Transient elastography (FibroScan; Echosens, Paris, France) is a novel, noninvasive, and rapid bedside method to assess liver fibrosis by measuring liver stiffness. We prospectively assessed the performance of FibroScan in patients with chronic hepatitis C, in comparison with and combined with currently available biochemical markers (Fibrotest; Biopredictive; and the aspartate transaminase to platelets ratio index [APRI]); a liver biopsy examination performed the same day served as the reference. We studied 183 consecutive patients with chronic hepatitis C (METAVIR fibrosis stage F1, n = 47; F2, n = 53; F3, n = 37; F4, n = 46). FibroScan values ranged from 2.4 to 75.4 kilopascals (median, 7.4 kilopascals). Cut-off values were 7.1 kPa for F > or = 2, 9.5 kPa for F > or = 3, and 12.5 kPa for F = 4. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of FibroScan, FibroTest, and APRI values were of the same order (.83, .85, and .78, respectively, for F > or = 2; .90, .90, and .84, respectively, for F > or = 3; and .95, .87, and .83, respectively, for F = 4). The best performance was obtained by combining the FibroScan and FibroTest, with areas under the ROC curve of .88 for F > or = 2, .95 for F > or = 3, and .95 for F = 4. When the FibroScan and FibroTest results agreed, liver biopsy examination confirmed them in 84% of cases for F > or = 2, in 95% for F > or = 3, and in 94% for F = 4. FibroScan is a simple and effective method for assessing liver fibrosis, with similar performance to FibroTest and APRI. The combined use of FibroScan and FibroTest to evaluate liver fibrosis could avoid a biopsy procedure in most patients with chronic hepatitis C."}
{"id": "14698338", "title": "Transient elastography: a new noninvasive method for assessment of hepatic fibrosis.", "content": "Transient elastography: a new noninvasive method for assessment of hepatic fibrosis. Chronic hepatitis is accompanied by progressive deposit of hepatic fibrosis, which may lead to cirrhosis. Evaluation of liver fibrosis is, thus, of great clinical interest and, up to now, has been assessed with liver biopsy. This work aims to evaluate a new noninvasive device to quantify liver fibrosis: the shear elasticity probe or fibroscan. This device is based on one-dimensional (1-D) transient elastography, a technique that uses both ultrasound (US) (5 MHz) and low-frequency (50 Hz) elastic waves, whose propagation velocity is directly related to elasticity. The intra- and interoperator reproducibility of the technique, as well as its ability to quantify liver fibrosis, were evaluated in 106 patients with chronic hepatitis C. Liver elasticity measurements were reproducible (standardized coefficient of variation: 3%), operator-independent and well correlated (partial correlation coefficient = 0.71, p < < 0.0001) to fibrosis grade (METAVIR). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were 0.88 and 0.99 for the diagnosis of patients with significant fibrosis (>/= F2) and with cirrhosis ( = F4), respectively. The Fibroscan is a noninvasive, painless, rapid and objective method to quantify liver fibrosis."}
